GREENVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-17 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. No. 25-023, passed 8-11-2025, and
State legislation current through 2023 A.L.S. #4
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588
www.amlegal.com
OFFICIALS OF THE CITY OF
GREENVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA
________
P.J. Connelly
Mayor
________
Rose H. Glover
Mayor Pro-Tem
________
Monica P. Daniels, District 1
Tonya Foreman, District 2
Marion Blackburn, District 3
Matthew Scully, District 4
Les Robinson, District 5
Portia Willis, At Large
City Council
________
Ann E. Wall
City Manager
________
Emanuel D. McGirt
City Attorney
________
Valerie Shiuwegar
City Clerk
________
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 10-08
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF GREENVILLE,
NORTH CAROLINA, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN
EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF GREENVILLE DEALING WITH SUBJECTS
EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES
   WHEREAS, North Carolina General Statues 160A-77 empowers and authorizes the
City of Greenville to adopt and issue a code of its ordinances in book form.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
GREENVILLE:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the City of Greenville as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute “the Code of Ordinances of the City of Greenville, North
Carolina.”
   Section 2. Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
Title 1:   General Provisions
Title 2:   Government And Administration
Title 3:   Financial Administration
Title 4:   Personnel Administration
Title 5:   Public Safety
Title 6:   Public Works
Title 7:   Parks, Recreation And Cultural Affairs
Title 8:   Public Utilities
Title 9:   Building, Planning And Development Regulations
Title 10:   Transportation And Traffic
Title 11:   Licensing And Regulatory
Title 12:   Offenses and Public Nuisances
   Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances which were adopted on or before October 8, 2009, shall be
deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this ordinance except as
they are included and reordained in whole or in part in such Code of
Ordinances; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or
penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxers, appropriating money, annexing territory, granting franchises,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or
certificates of participation or any evidence of indebtedness or borrowing of
money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting
or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, closing or
setting boundaries of streets or other public places, zoning or rezoning
property, adopting or amending the comprehensive land use plan, establishing
rates or fees including, but not limited to, rates and fees set forth in the
Manual of Fees, adopting or amending the assignment of classes to salary grades
and ranges, adopting or amending a drug free workplace program or policy or
substance abuse policy applicable to employees including, but not limited to,
safety sensitive transit system employees and employees who are safety
sensitive motor vehicle operators who possess a commercial driver’s license,
adopting or amending a schedule of traffic regulations, and ordering the repair
or demolition of any dwelling, abandoned structure or nonresidential building
or structure, nor shall such repeal affect any ordinances which are codified by
appropriate entries upon official map books, nor shall such repeal affect any
other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not
contained in or covered by such Code of Ordinances.
   Section 4. Such Code of Ordinances shall be deemed published as of the day
of its adopting and approval by the City Council of the City of Greenville and
the City Clerk of the City of Greenville is hereby authorized and ordered to
file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the Office of the City Clerk.
   Section 5. Such Code of Ordinances shall be in full force and effect upon
its adoption, and such Code of Ordinances shall be evidence in all actions or
proceedings before courts and administrative bodies of the ordinance and all
provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein contained.
   Section 6. This ordinance shall become effective upon its adoption.
   This the 11th day of February, 2010.
                   Patricia C. Dunn /s/
                  Patricia C. Dunn, Mayor
ATTEST:
Wanda T. Elks /s/
Wanda T. Elks, City Clerk
PART I
THE CHARTER OF THE CITY OF GREENVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA AND RELATED LOCAL LAWS
THE CHARTER OF THE CITY OF GREENVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA
   
Article I.   Incorporation, Powers, Corporate Limits
   
Article II.   Governing Body
   
Article III.   Elections
   
Article IV.   Organization and Administration
Article I. Incorporation, Powers, Corporate Limits
   Sec.
1-1.   Incorporation.
   Sec.
1-2.   Powers.
   Sec.
1-3.   Additional powers; street and sidewalk improvements; assessments
therefor.
   Sec.
1-4.   Corporate limits.
Sec. 1-1. Incorporation.
   The inhabitants of the City of Greenville, North Carolina, are a body
corporate and politic under the name of the “City of Greenville,” hereinafter
at time referred to as the “City”.
Sec. 1-2. Powers.
   The City of Greenville has and may exercise all of the powers, duties,
rights, privileges, and immunities which are now or hereafter may be conferred
or imposed, either expressly or by implication, on municipal corporations by
this Charter, the general law of North Carolina, the State Constitution, or
local law.
   Additionally the City has the power to issue and sell bonds on the security
of any such excess property, or of any public utility owned by the City, or of
the revenues thereof, or of both, including in the case of a public utility, if
deemed desirable by the City, a franchise stating the terms upon which, in case
of foreclosure, the purchaser may operate such utility.
Sec. 1-3. Additional powers; street and sidewalk improvements; assessments
therefor.
   (a)   In addition to any authority which is now or may hereafter be granted
by general law to the City for making street improvements, the City Council is
hereby authorized to make street improvements and to assess the total costs
thereof against abutting property owners in accordance with the provisions of
this act. The City Council may order street improvements and assess the costs
thereof, exclusive of the costs incurred at street intersections, against the
abutting property owners, according to one or more of the assessment bases set
forth in Article 10 of Chapter 160A of the North Carolina General Statutes,
without the necessity of a petition, upon findings of fact by the Council that:
      (1)   Such street or part thereof is unsafe for vehicular traffic, and it
is in the public interest to make such improvement;
      (2)   It is in the public interest to connect two streets or portions of
a street already improved;
      (3)   It is in the public interest to widen a street, or part thereof,
that is already improved. However, assessments for widening any street, or
portion of street, without petition shall be limited to the cost of widening
and otherwise improving such street in accordance with the street
classification and improvement standard established by the City’s thoroughfare
or major street plan for the particular street, or part thereof to be widened
and improved; or
      (4)   Such street, or part thereof, is in need of repair or pavement and
it is in the public interest to make such improvements.
   (b)   For the purpose of this act, the term “street improvement” shall
include grading, regrading, surfacing, resurfacing, widening, paving, repaving,
the acquisition of right-of-way, and the construction or reconstruction of
curbs, gutters, and street drainage systems.
   (c)   In addition to any authority which is now or may hereafter be granted
by general law to the City of Greenville for making sidewalk improvements, the
City Council is hereby authorized, without the necessity of a petition, to make
or to order to be made sidewalk improvements or repairs according to standards
and specifications of the City, and to assess the total cost thereof against
abutting property owners, according to one or more of the assessment bases
[basis] set forth in Article 10, Chapter 160A of the North Carolina General
Statutes; provided, however, that regardless of the assessment basis or bases
employed, the Council may order the costs of sidewalk improvements made only on
one side of a street to be assessed against property owners abutting both sides
of such street.
   (d)   In ordering street and sidewalk improvements without a petition and
assessing the costs thereof under authority of this act, the city council shall
comply with the procedure provided by Article 10, Chapter 160A of the General
Statutes, except those provisions relating to the petition of property owners
and the sufficiency thereof.
   (e)   The effect of the act of levying assessments under authority of this
article shall for all purposes be the same as if the assessments were levied
under authority of Article 10 of Chapter 160A of the General Statutes.
   (f)   This act shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any other
powers already held by general laws or otherwise.
   (g)   Except as otherwise provided in this act, the city council shall have
the authority to determine by whom and in what manner the powers granted by
this section shall be exercised.
Sec. 1-4. Corporate limits.
   The corporate limits of the City of Greenville shall be those existing at
the time of the ratification of this Charter, as the same are set forth on the
official map and written description of the city, and as the same may be
altered from time to time in accordance with law. The official map and written
description of the city, showing the current boundaries, shall be maintained
permanently in the office of the city clerk, and shall be available for public
inspection. Upon alteration of the corporate limits pursuant to law, the
council shall cause to be made the appropriate changes to the official map and
written description. In case of conflict the official map shall control.
Article II. Governing Body
   Sec.
2-1.   Composition and duties of mayor and city council.
   Sec.
2-2.   Duties of mayor.
   Sec.
2-3.   Duties of mayor pro tempore.
Sec. 2-1. Composition and duties of mayor and city council.
   The mayor and the city council elected and constituted as herein set forth,
shall be the governing body of the city. There shall be six (6) members of the
city council. The mayor shall have the right to vote on matters before the
council only when there is an equal number of votes in the affirmative and in
the negative. On behalf of the city, and in conformity with applicable laws,
the mayor and council may provide for the exercise of all municipal powers and
shall be charged with the general government of the city.
Sec. 2-2. Duties of mayor.
   In addition to the powers and duties as are conferred by law and this
Charter, the mayor shall have such other powers and duties as may be conferred
upon him by the council pursuant to law.
Sec. 2-3. Duties of mayor pro tempore.
   Immediately after the newly elected members of the city council have assumed
the duties of office, the city council shall elect one of its members as mayor
pro tempore, who shall have the powers and duties prescribed by the General
Statutes and local law, and shall serve for a period of two years.
Article III. Elections
Editor’s note:
Ord. No. 1624, § 1, adopted July 10, 1986, repealed § 3-1 of the Charter as set
forth in Ch. 272 of the 1981 Session Laws, and enacted §§ 3-1—3-5 in lieu
thereof, to read as herein set forth. Said § 3-1 formerly pertained to regular
municipal elections.
   Sec.
3-1.   Regular municipal elections.
   Sec.
3-2.   Mode of election.
   Sec.
3-3.   Election of the mayor.
   Sec.
3-4.   Terms of city council members.
   Sec.
3-5.   Non-partisan elections.
Sec. 3-1. Regular municipal elections.
   Regular municipal elections shall be held in the city every two (2) years in
odd-numbered years, and shall be conducted in accordance with the uniform
municipal election laws of North Carolina.
(Ord. No. 1624, § 1, passed 7-10-1986)
Sec. 3-2. Mode of election.
   The city shall be divided into five (5) single-member electoral districts
and the qualified voters of each district shall elect one council member who
resides in the district, for the seat apportioned to that district. All the
qualified voters of the city shall elect one council member apportioned to the
city at-large.
(Ord. No. 1624, § 1, passed 7-10-1986)
Sec. 3-3. Election of the mayor.
   The mayor shall be elected by all the qualified voters of the city for a
term of two (2) years.
(Ord. No. 1624, § 1, passed 7-10-1986)
Sec. 3-4. Terms of city council members.
   Members of the city council shall serve for a term of two (2) years.
(Ord. No. 1624, § 1, passed 7-10-1986)
Sec. 3-5. Non-partisan elections.
   Municipal elections shall be conducted according to the non-partisan
plurality election method.
(Ord. No. 1624, § 1, passed 7-10-1986)
Article IV. Organization and Administration
   Sec.
4-1.   Form of government.
   Sec.
4-2.   Appointment of officers by city council.
   Sec.
4-3.   City manager.
   Sec.
4-4.   City attorney.
   Sec.
4-5.   Personal interest.
   Sec.
4-6.   City clerk.
Sec. 4-1. Form of government.
   The city shall operate under the council-manager form of government in
accordance with Part 2 of Article 7 of Chapter 160A of the General Statutes.
Sec. 4-2. Appointment of officers by city council.
   The city council shall appoint a city manager and a city attorney, each of
whom must be or become a resident of the city to fulfill the appointment. The
council shall fix all salaries, prescribe bonds, and require such oaths as they
deem necessary.
Sec. 4-3. City Manager.
   The city manager shall perform the powers and duties as defined in Part 2 of
Article 7 of Chapter 160A of the General Statutes and, in addition the manager
shall perform such other duties as may be required by the city council.
Sec. 4-4. City attorney.
   The city attorney shall be a licensed attorney who has practiced law in the
State of North Carolina for at least five years. The city attorney shall serve
as the city council’s legal advisor and perform such duties as are prescribed
by law or required by the city council.
Sec. 4-5. Personal interest.
   No member of the city council nor any officer or employee of the city shall
have a direct or indirect financial interest in any contract with the city, or
be directly or indirectly financially interested in the sale to the city of any
land, materials, supplies, or services, except on behalf of the city as an
officer or employee. Any willful violation of this section shall constitute
malfeasance in office, and any officer or employee of the city found guilty
thereof by a competent court of law shall thereby forfeit his or her office or
position. Any violation of this section with the express or implied knowledge
of the person or corporation contracting with the city shall render the
contract voidable by the city council.
Sec. 4-6. City clerk.
   The city council shall appoint a city clerk to perform the duties of city
clerk as described by law.
(1989, c. 201, § 1)
CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE
   The table below shows the location of amendments to the Charter.
 
Year Chapter Disposition Ord. No. Date      Disposition
1989 201     4-6         1624     7-10-1986 3-1 -- 3-5
                                        
 
RELATED LOCAL LAWS
   
Article 1.   Removal of graves
   
Article 2.   Local public libraries
   
Article 3.   Utilities commission
   
Article 4.   Pitt County-City of Greenville Airport Authority
   
Article 5.   Supplemental retirement fund for firemen
   
Article 6.   Service of notice related to housing and building code violations
   
Article 7.   Reserved
   
Article 8.   Alternative condemnation procedures
   
Article 9.   Trees
   
Article 10.   Motor vehicles
   
Article 11.   Charter amendments
   
Article 12.   Abandoned structures
   
Article 13.   Development of convention center
   
Article 14.   City’s overgrown vegetation ordinance
   
Article 15.   Fire protection
   
Article 16.   Annexation
   
Article 17.   Public bidding laws
   
Article 18.   Appointment of Housing Authority Commissioners
Editor’s note:
   The Related Local Laws portion of the code is comprised of local acts
enacted by the state legislature which make substantive provisions concerning
the administration and government of the City of Greenville. References in
these acts to the “town” and “board of aldermen” should be construed to mean
the “city” and “city council” respectively.
Article 1. Removal of Graves
   Sec.
1-1.   Power of city council.
   Sec.
1-2.   Persons acting under this act relieved of responsibility under certain
sections of state law.
   Sec.
1-3.   Removal and replacement of monument or gravestone.
   Sec.
1-4.   Act not applicable to Cherry Hill Cemetery.
Editor’s note:
   Former sections of the N.C. Revisal of 1905 are now codified as G.S. §§ 14-
148 and 14-149, dealing with removing or defacing graves and human remains.
Sec. 1-1. Power of city council.
   The city council of the City of Greenville shall have the power and the
authority, and they are hereby authorized to remove any and all graves in the
City of Greenville, Pitt County, North Carolina, and to remove the bodies,
bones, or dust, with the stones and monuments erected thereto, from said graves
to some other graveyard or cemetery in Pitt County, the site and location to be
designated and provided by the said board of aldermen.
(Priv. L. 1919, c. 76, § 1)
Sec. 1-2. Persons acting under this act relieved of responsibility under
certain sections of state law.
   No officers of the City of Greenville, nor shall any member of the city
council, nor shall any one acting under the authority of the said board be
indictable under sections 3,672, 3,680 or 3,681 of the Revisal of North
Carolina of 1905 because of any act done under this act.
(Priv. L. 1919, c. 76, § 2)
Sec. 1-3. Removal and replacement of monument or gravestone.
   Whenever there shall be a monument or gravestone over any body and the body
shall be removed the said city council shall cause such monument or gravestone
to be replaced over the grave into which the body shall have been reburied.
(Priv. L. 1919, c. 76, § 3)
 Sec. 1-4. Act not applicable to Cherry Hill Cemetery.
   The provisions of this act shall not apply to what is known as Cherry Hill
Cemetery.
(Priv. L. 1919, c. 76, § 4)
Article 2. Local Public Libraries
   Sec.
2-1.   Sheppard Memorial Library; authority to convey to city.
   Sec.
2-2.   Same; title to vest in Greenville; authority to maintain and support.
   Sec.
2-3.   Pitt County-City of Greenville Public Law Library; established.
   Sec.
2-4.   Same; mayor as one of the custodians of library property.
   Sec.
2-5.   Same; clerk of recorder’s court of city to collect certain fee.
Statutory reference:
   General law as to establishment, financing, management, etc., of local
public libraries, and boards of trustees thereof, see G.S. §§ 153A-261 et seq.
   State policy relating to public library service, see G.S. § 125-7
Sec. 2-1. Sheppard Memorial Library; authority to convey to city.
   The trustees of the Greenville Graded School District be, and they are
hereby authorized and empowered to convey to the City of Greenville, by good
and sufficient deed in fee simple, the said lot, tract, piece or parcel of
land, the same being known as the Academy property, upon which lot the Sheppard
Memorial Library now stands, and being situated on the west side of Evans
Street in the City of Greenville, Pitt County.
(Priv. L. 1931, c. 12, § 1)
Sec. 2-2. Same; title to vest in Greenville; authority to maintain and support.
   Upon the execution and delivery of deed for said property as aforesaid, full
title in fee simple shall pass to and vest in the City of Greenville, and
thereupon, the appropriate authorities of said town are authorized and
empowered to maintain and support the said free public library, known as the
Sheppard Memorial Library, for the use and benefit of the people of Greenville
and Pitt County.
(Priv. L. 1931, c. 12, § 2)
Sec. 2-3. Pitt County–City of Greenville Public Law Library; established.
   There is hereby established in Pitt County a public law library to be known
as the Pitt County-City of Greenville Public Law Library, which shall be kept
and maintained as provided by this act, for the County of Pitt, City of
Greenville, and the use of the public and officials of said county and city and
officers of the courts held therein.
(S.L. 1961, c. 549, § 1)
Editor’s note:
   Only Secs. 1[1-1], 2[1-2] and 6[2-2] of the act creating this library are
set out in this volume, as the remainder of the act is of primary concern to
the custodians of the library rather than the people of Greenville.
Sec. 2-4. Same; mayor as one of the custodians of library property.
   That the chairman of the board of county commissioners of Pitt County, the
mayor of the City of Greenville, the clerk of the superior court of Pitt
County, and the president of the Pitt County Bar Association and their
successors in office, be and they are hereby constituted custodians of all
books, furnishings, supplies, equipment, furniture and records of the law
library.
(S.L. 1961, c. 549, § 2)
Sec. 2-5. Same; clerk of recorder’s court of city to collect certain fee.
   It shall also be the duty of the clerk of the recorder’s court and the clerk
of the municipal recorder’s court of the City of Greenville after the effective
date of this act [May 30, 1961] to collect in each and every case finally
disposed of in his court, except in cases in which Pitt County or the City of
Greenville is adjudged to pay all costs, the sum of one dollar ($1.00), which
amount shall be immediately paid over to the clerk of the superior court of
Pitt County to supplement the aforesaid Law Library Fund, which shall be
deposited as herein provided, and which shall be expended in the way and manner
provided in this act.
(S.L. 1961, c. 549, § 6)
Editor’s note:
   There is no longer a recorder’s court for this city, see G.S. § 7A-3
Article 3. Utilities Commission
   Sec.
3-1.   Establishment.
   Sec.
3-2.   Composition; appointment of members.
   Sec.
3-3.   City officers or employees ineligible; filling vacancies.
   Sec.
3-4.   Chairman; compensation; meetings.
   Sec.
3-5.   Supervision of utilities; fixing rates.
   Sec.
3-6.   General manager.
   Sec.
3-7.   Finances, reports, etc.
   Sec.
3-8.   Budget.
   Sec.
3-9.   Employment, remuneration and bonds of officers, employees, etc.;
secretary of commission.
   Sec.
3-10.   Discharge, etc., of officers, agents or employees.
   Sec.
3-11.   Repeal of Water and Light Commission Act, etc.
   Sec.
3-12.   Expanding the permissible purposes and authorizing to charge
appropriate fees for expanded services.
Editor’s note:
   Sections 3-1 through 3-11 of this article were totally rewritten by Senate
Bill 1069 (Chapter 861 of the 1992 Regular Session of the North Carolina
General Assembly) dated July 7, 1992.
Sec. 3-1. Establishment.
   For the proper management of the public utilities of the City of Greenville,
both within the corporate limits of the city and outside the said corporate
limits, a commission to be designated and known as the “Greenville Utilities
Commission,” is hereby created and established.
Sec. 3-2. Composition; appointment of members.
   The Greenville Utilities Commission shall consist of eight members, six of
whom shall be bona fide residents of the City of whom one shall at all times be
the City Manager of Greenville, and two of whom shall be bona fide residents of
Pitt County but residing outside the city limits of Greenville, and all of whom
shall be customers of Greenville Utilities Commission. Each Greenville
Utilities Commissioner shall hold office for an initial term of three years
and, except as set forth herein, will be automatically reappointed to a single
additional term of three years, with each term of three years expiring June 30
at the end of the designated term or until reappointed or replaced by the City
Council. The first appointees shall hold their offices as follows: the
Greenville City Council shall appoint an individual to serve until June 30,
1995; John W. Hughes, Sr. is hereby appointed a Greenville Utilities
Commissioner to serve until June 30, 1995, and shall not be eligible for a
second term; Bernard E. Kane is hereby appointed a Greenville Utilities
Commissioner to serve until June 30, 1995; R. Richard Miller is hereby
appointed a Greenville Utilities Commissioner to serve until June 30, 1994, and
shall not be eligible for a second term; and the Greenville City Council shall
appoint an individual to serve until June 30, 1993; all of whom are bona fide
residents of the city. William G. Blount is hereby appointed a Greenville
Utilities Commissioner to serve until June 30, 1993, and shall not be eligible
for a second term; and the Pitt County Board of Commissioners shall nominate an
individual under the procedure established in Section 3 of this act, to be
appointed by the Greenville City Council to serve until June 30, 1994; both of
whom are Greenville Utilities Commissioner customers and bona fide residents of
Pitt County residing outside the city limits.
Sec. 3-3. City officers or employees ineligible; filling vacancies.
   The Greenville Utilities Commissioners otherwise than as herein provided
shall be appointed by the City Council at their regular monthly meeting in June
of each year. It is the intention of this charter that the City Council shall
appoint Greenville Utilities Commission members who have utilities expertise.
Representation should include some members with financial, engineering,
environmental, technical, or development backgrounds. The two members of the
Greenville Utilities Commission residing outside the city limits shall be
nominated by the Pitt County Board of Commissioners and appointed by the City
Council. The City Council has the right to reject any nominee(s) from the Pitt
County Board of Commissioners and to request additional nominees. If the Pitt
County Board of Commissioners fails to recommend a nominee to the City Council
within 60 days of the original date requested by the City Council, then the
City Council may appoint any individual meeting the residency requirement. No
person shall be eligible for appointment to the Greenville Utilities Commission
who is an officer or employee of the City or Pitt County except that the City
Manager of the City of Greenville shall at all times be a full member of the
Greenville Utilities Commission. In the event a Greenville Utilities
Commissioner resigns, dies, or otherwise becomes incapable of performing his or
her duties, the City Council shall appoint, according to the same process
described herein for regular appointments, a Greenville Utilities Commissioner
to fill the unexpired term at any regular or special meeting of the City
Council. Any Greenville Utilities Commissioner filling an unexpired term shall
be deemed to have filled said term for the full three-year term. Except as
otherwise permitted herein, no Greenville Utilities Commissioner shall serve
more than two three-year terms. Greenville Utilities Commissioners filling the
first three-year term will automatically fill a second three-year term unless
the City Council initiates the replacement process.
Sec. 3-4. Chairman; compensation; meetings.
   The Greenville Utilities Commissioners shall organize by electing one of
their members Chair, whose term of office as Chair shall be for one year unless
the Chair’s term on the Greenville Utilities Commission shall expire earlier,
in which event his or her term as Chair shall expire with the Chair’s term on
the Greenville Utilities Commission. The Chair shall not be entitled to vote on
any proposition before the Greenville Utilities Commission except in case of a
tie vote and only for the purpose of breaking the tie. The members of the
Greenville Utilities Commission are authorized to fix their own salaries
provided, however, that said salaries shall not exceed one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00) per month for the members and two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) per month for the Chair provided, however, the City Council may, at
its own discretion, increase these caps from time to time as is appropriate to
reflect inflation, and provided, however, the City Manager shall receive no pay
as a member of the Greenville Utilities Commission other than his or her salary
as City Manager. The Greenville Utilities Commission shall meet at least once
each month at a designated time and place unless the Chair designates some
other meeting time and so notifies the other members of the Greenville
Utilities Commission. The Greenville Utilities Commission and the Greenville
City Council shall meet at least once each year to discuss mutual interests of
the City of Greenville and the Greenville Utilities Commission. Minutes shall
be kept for all regular meetings of the Greenville Utilities Commission.
Sec. 3-5. Supervision of utilities; fixing rates.
   The Greenville Utilities Commission shall have entire supervision and
control of the management, operation, maintenance, improvement, and extension
of the public utilities of the City, which public utilities shall include
electric, natural gas, water, and sewer services, and shall fix uniform rates
for all services rendered; provided, however, that any person affected by said
rates may appeal from the decision of the Greenville Utilities Commission as to
rates to the City Council. With approval by the City Council, the Greenville
Utilities Commission may undertake any additional public enterprise service
which may lawfully be operated by a municipality.
Sec. 3-6. General Manager.
   The Greenville Utilities Commission shall employ a competent and qualified
General Manager whose duties shall be to supervise and manage the said public
utilities, subject to the approval of the Greenville Utilities Commission. The
General Manager, under the direction of and subject to the approval of the
Greenville Utilities Commission, shall cause the said utilities to be orderly
and properly conducted; the General Manager shall provide for the operation,
maintenance, and improvement of utilities; the General Manager shall provide
for the extension of all utilities, except sewer extensions made beyond the
area regulated by the City of Greenville are subject to the approval of the
City Council, and shall furnish, on application, proper connections and service
to all citizens and inhabitants who make proper application for the same, and
shall in all respects provide adequate service for the said utilities to the
customers thereof; the General Manager shall attend to all complaints as to
defective service and shall cause the same to be remedied, and otherwise manage
and control said utilities for the best interests of the City of Greenville and
the customers receiving service, and shall provide for the prompt collection of
all rentals and charges for service to customers and shall promptly and
faithfully cause said rentals and charges to be collected and received, all
under such rules and regulations as the Greenville Utilities Commission shall,
from time to time, adopt and in accordance with the ordinances of the City of
Greenville in such case made and provided.
Sec. 3-7. Finances, reports, etc.
   All monies accruing from the charges or rentals of said utilities shall be
deposited into the appropriate enterprise fund of the Greenville Utilities
Commission and the Greenville Utilities Commission’s Director of Finance shall
keep an account of the same. The Greenville Utilities Commission shall at the
end of each month make a report to the City Council of its receipts and
disbursements; the Greenville Utilities Commission shall pay out of its
receipts the cost and expense incurred in managing, operating, improving,
maintaining, extending, and planning for future improvements and expansions of
said utilities; provided, however, that should the funds arising from the
charges and rentals of said utilities be insufficient at any time to pay the
necessary expenses for managing, operating, improving, and extending said
utilities, then and in that event only, the City Council of the city of
Greenville shall provide and pay into the appropriate enterprise fund of the
Greenville Utilities Commission a sum sufficient, when added to the funds that
have accrued from the rents and charges, to pay the costs and expenses of
managing, operating, improving, maintaining, extending, and planning for future
improvements and expansions of said utilities; the Greenville Utilities
Commission shall pay the principal on all such funds provided by the City
Council with interest thereon; provided, further, that the Greenville Utilities
Commission shall annually transfer to the City, unless reduced by the City
Council, an amount equal to six percent (6%) of the difference between the
electric and natural gas system’s net fixed assets and total bonded
indebtedness plus annually transfer an amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of
the Greenville Utilities Commission’s retail cost of service for the City of
Greenville’s public lighting. “Public lighting” is defined herein to mean City
of Greenville street lights and City of Greenville Parks and Recreation
Department recreational outdoor lighting. The preparation of a joint financial
audit of the City of Greenville and the Greenville Utilities Commission
operations by a single auditing firm is intended under the provisions of this
charter and existing North Carolina statutes.
Sec. 3-8. Budget.
   In compliance with the time requirements of Chapter 159 of the General
Statutes, the Greenville Utilities Commission shall prepare and submit to the
City Council, for approval, a budget for the coming year showing its estimated
revenue, expenses, capital expenditures, debt service, and turnover to the City
of Greenville. In addition, the budget ordinance must identify construction
projects of the Greenville Utilities Commission which include individual
contracts in excess of one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the Greenville
Utilities Commission’s annual budget. City Council approval of the Greenville
Utilities Commission’s budget will constitute approval of projects so
identified and the contracts contained therein. Contracts in excess of one-half
of one percent (0.5%) of the Greenville Utilities Commission’s annual budget
not so identified and approved in the budget ordinance will require separate
City Council approval.
Sec. 3-9. Employment, remuneration and bonds of officers, employees, etc.;
secretary of commission.
   The Greenville Utilities Commission shall approve the employment and
remuneration of all officers, agents, independent contractors, and employees
necessary and requisite to manage, operate, maintain, improve and extend the
service of said utilities. It is, however, the intention of this Charter that
the Greenville Utilities Commission and the City of Greenville will implement
and maintain mutual pay plans, personnel policies, and benefits for their
respective employees. The Greenville Utilities Commission may require bond in
such sum as it may deem necessary, which shall be approved by the City Council,
of all officers, agents, and employees having authority to receive money for
the Greenville Utilities Commission. The Greenville Utilities Commission shall
have the authority to name and designate a person in its employ as secretary of
the Greenville Utilities Commission.
Sec. 3-10. Discharge, etc. of officers, agents or employees.
   The Greenville Utilities Commission shall have authority at all times to
discharge and remove any officer, agent, independent contractor, or employee of
the Greenville Utilities Commission.
Sec. 3-11. Repeal of water and light commission act, etc.
   All laws and clauses of laws in conflict with this act are hereby repealed,
expressly including Chapter 146 of the Public-Local Laws of 1941, entitled “AN
ACT TO PROVIDE A PERMANENT UTILITIES COMMISSION FOR THE CITY OF GREENVILLE, IN
PITT COUNTY, AND TO REPEAL CHAPTER TWO HUNDRED AND ELEVEN OF THE PRIVATE LAWS
OF ONE THOUSAND NINE HUNDRED AND FIVE, AND AMENDMENTS THERETO, RELATING TO THE
WATER AND LIGHT COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF GREENVILLE”, except that this act
does not revive any act repealed by that act.
  Sec. 3-12. Expanding the permissible purposes of the Greenville Utilities
Commission and authorizing the commission to charge appropriate fees for
expanded services.
   In addition to the allowable public enterprises that the City of Greenville
and the Greenville Utilities Commission may undertake pursuant to the
provisions of Chapter 861 of the 1991 Session Laws, the City of Greenville and
the Greenville Utilities Commission shall have the authority, with the approval
of the City Council of the City of Greenville, to acquire, construct,
establish, enlarge, improve, maintain, own, operate, or contract for the
operation of the following:
   (1)   Steam and chilled water supply and distribution systems, if the system
is located within the Greenville Industrial Park, and is located entirely
within the corporate limits of the City of Greenville or its extraterritorial
jurisdiction area; or
   (2)   Public enterprises, as defined in G.S. § 160A-311, of a public or
private entity other than the City of Greenville, if approved by the governing
body of the entity, and if the enterprise is located within Pitt County.
   The City of Greenville and the Commission may charge appropriate fees for
any expanded services offered pursuant to this act.
(S.L. 1999)
Article 4. Pitt County-City of Greenville Airport Authority
   Sec.
4-1.   Pitt County–City of Greenville Airport Authority created; body corporate
and politic.
   Sec.
4-2.   Authority and airport is of benefit to county and city; authority as
agency of city and county.
   Sec.
4-3.   Qualifications; appointment and term of members of authority; filling
vacancies; secretary; official advisors.
   Sec.
4-4.   Status of authority members who are city or county officers.
Editor’s note:
   This article, as set out in the 1957 City Code, comprised Secs. 1 and 2 of
Ch. 403, Public-Local Laws of 1941, whereby the city and county jointly were
authorized to purchase and thereafter to lease certain land, “well known as the
`Hines land’,” to be developed and used for airport purposes. It may also be
noted that Ch. 144 of Session Laws of 1943 authorized the city and county
jointly to acquired [sic], by eminent domain, land to be developed and used for
airport purposes, although that act was not included in the 1957 City Code.
   Chapter 571 of Session Laws, 1967, is the latest enactment on this subject,
and is comprehensive. Sections 1 to 3 and 16 of that act are set out in this
article, and the remainder of the act (Secs. 4 to 15, and 17 to 19) are omitted
as relating to the airport authority and having no bearing on the
administration or government of the city.
Statutory reference:
   Municipal airports generally, see G.S. §§ 63-1 through 63-9
Sec. 4-1. Pitt County–City of Greenville Airport Authority created; body
corporate and politic.
   There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the Pitt
County-City of Greenville Airport Authority, hereinafter referred to as the
“authority.” Said authority shall be a political subdivision for all the
purposes of chapter 63 of the General Statutes and shall have all the powers
conferred upon political subdivisions by such chapter. The authority shall
consist of the members appointed from time to time as hereinafter provided and
the powers of the authority shall be vested in such members.
(S.L. 1967, c. 571, § 1)
Sec. 4-2. Authority and airport is of benefit to county and city; authority as
agency of city and county.
   It is hereby determined and declared that the creation of the authority and
the establishment and maintenance of the airport, landing field and other
facilities appurtenant thereto as provided herein will be of benefit to the
county of Pitt, hereinafter referred to as the “county” and the City of
Greenville, hereinafter referred to as the “city.” The authority, in exercising
the powers conferred by this act, shall constitute and shall be deemed to be an
agency or instrumentality of the county and the city.  
(S.L. 1967, c. 571, § 2)
Sec. 4-3. Qualifications; appointment and term of members of authority; filling
vacancies; secretary; official advisors.
   The county and the city may become participating members of the authority by
adopting appropriate resolutions to such effect and by appointing
representatives to the authority. The authority shall consist of five (5)
members to be appointed in the following manner and for the following terms:
two (2) members shall be appointed by the governing body of the county, one (1)
member for a term of two (2) years beginning July 1, 1967, and a second member
for a period of four (4) years beginning July 1, 1967. Two (2) members shall be
appointed by the governing body of the city, one (1) member for a one (1) year
term beginning July 1, 1967, and a second member for a three (3) year term
beginning July 1, 1967. Thereafter, each governing body, from time to time,
shall appoint a person to serve as a member of the authority for a term of four
(4) years, and shall also appoint a member to fill any vacancy as provided
below. A member appointed to fill a vacancy shall serve for the unexpired
portion of the term for which he is appointed. Each member so appointed shall
hold office until his successor is appointed and is qualified. It shall be the
duty of each governing body to make such original appointment within 30 days
after adoption of its resolution to become a participating member, and to fill
any vacancy not later than 60 days after such vacancy shall occur. A failure to
make any appointment or fill any vacancy within the prescribed period of time
shall not affect the validity of any appointment made. The fifth member shall
be appointed by the four (4) members appointed by the respective governing
bodies; he shall be a resident of the County of Pitt and/or the City of
Greenville and shall serve for a period of one (1) year from the date of his
appointment. The fifth member appointed as heretofore provided shall serve as
the secretary of the authority. The authority shall be empowered to employ said
secretary on a full-time or part-time basis with such remuneration as may be
deemed reasonable and commensurate with the services performed. In addition to
the foregoing, each governing body shall designate one (1) of its members to
serve as an official advisor to the authority. The advisors may participate
fully in the deliberations of the authority but shall not have the right to
vote.
(S.L. 1967, c. 571, § 3)
Editor’s note:
   Both the city and county have adopted appropriate resolutions to become
participating members of the authority, and these resolutions are on file in
the offices of the City Clerk and County Clerk, respectively.
Sec. 4-4. Status of authority members who are city or county officers.
   A member of the authority shall not be considered a public officer or as a
person holding office within the meaning of Article XIV, Section 7, of the
Constitution of North Carolina. Any public officer of the county or the city
who may be appointed as a member of the authority shall serve ex officio as a
part of his duty as a public officer of said county or city.
(S.L. 1967, c. 571, § 16)
Article 5. Supplemental Retirement Fund for Firemen
   Sec.
5-1.   Supplemental retirement fund created.
   Sec.
5-2.   Transfers of funds and disbursements.
   Sec.
5-3.   Supplemental retirement benefits.
   Sec.
5-4.   Intention.
   Sec.
5-5.   Investment of funds.
   Sec.
5-6.   Acceptance of gifts.
   Sec.
5-7.   Bond of treasurer.
Editor’s note:
   Session Law 2007-246 renamed the Firemen’s Relief Fund to the Firefighters’
Relief Fund in recognition of the numerous female firefighters who serve. Thus,
the name of the committee was changed to the Firefighters’ Relief Fund
Committee.
Sec. 5-1. Supplemental retirement fund created.
   The Board of Trustees of the Local Firemen’s Relief Fund of the City of
Greenville, as established in accordance with G.S. § 118-6, hereinafter called
the board of trustees, shall create and maintain a separate fund to be called
the Greenville Firemen’s Supplemental Retirement Fund, hereinafter called the
supplemental retirement fund, and shall maintain books of account for such fund
separate from the books of account of the Firemen’s Local Relief Fund of the
City of Greenville, hereinafter called the local relief fund. The board of
trustees shall pay into the supplemental retirement fund the funds prescribed
by this act.
(S.L. 1967, c. 570, § 1)
Editor’s note:
   The G.S. Chapter article containing the statute cited in the first sentence
of this section has been recodified as G.S. §§ 58-84-1 through 58-88-30.
Sec. 5-2. Transfers of funds and disbursements.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of G.S. § 118-7, the Board of Trustees of the
Local Firemen’s Relief Fund of the City of Greenville shall:
   (a)   Prior to January 1, 1968, transfer to the supplemental retirement fund
all funds, including earnings on investments, of the local relief fund in
excess of $10,000;
   (b)   in each subsequent calendar year, and within 30 days after receipt
from the city treasurer of the annual funds paid to the local relief fund by
authority of G.S. § 118-5, transfer to the supplemental retirement fund such
funds;
   (c)   at any time when the amount of funds in the local relief fund shall,
by reason of disbursements authorized by G.S. § 118-7, be less than $10,000,
transfer from the supplemental retirement fund to the local relief fund an
amount sufficient to maintain in the local relief fund the sum of $10,000;
   (d)   as soon as practicable after January 1 of each year, but in no event
later than July 1, divide the income earned in the preceding calendar year upon
investments of funds belonging to the supplemental retirement fund and upon
investments of funds belonging to the local relief fund into equal shares and
disburse the same as supplemental retirement benefits in accordance with
section 3 of this act, [the section next following].
(S.L. 1967, c. 570, § 2)
Editor’s note:
   The G.S. Chapter containing the statute cited in this section has been
recodified as G.S. §§ 58-84-1 through 58-88-30.
Sec. 5-3. Supplemental retirement benefits.
   (a)   Each retired fireman of the city who has previously retired with 20
years service or more as a city fireman shall be entitled to and shall receive
the following supplemental retirement benefits:
      (1)   one (1) share for each full year of service as a full-time and
fully-paid fireman of the city;
      (2)   one-third (1/3) of one (1) share for each full year of service as a
volunteer fireman of the city.
   (b)   Any former fireman of the city, either full-time and fully paid or
volunteer, who is not otherwise entitled to supplemental retirement benefits
under subsection (a) of this section, shall nevertheless be entitled to such
benefits in any calendar year in which the board of trustees makes the
following written findings of fact:
      (1)   that he initially retired from his position as fireman because of
his inability, by reason of sickness or injury, to perform the normal duties of
an active fireman; and
      (2)   that, within 30 days prior to or following his initial retirement
as a fireman, at least two (2) physicians licensed to practice medicine in
North Carolina certified that he was at such time unable, by reason of sickness
or injury, to perform the normal duties of any active fireman; and
      (3)   that, at the time of his initial retirement as a fireman, there was
not available to him in the fire department or in any other department of the
city a position of employment the normal duties of which he was capable of
performing; and
      (4)   that, since the preceding January 1, at least two (2) physicians
licensed to practice medicine in North Carolina have certified that he remains
unable, by reason of sickness or injury, to perform the normal duties of any
active fireman; and
      (5)   that there is not available to him in the fire department or in any
other department of the city a position of employment the normal duties of
which he is capable of performing; provided, that the board of trustees, after
initially making the findings of fact specified in (1), (2) and (3) of this
subsection, need not specify such findings in subsequent calendar years.
(S.L. 1967, c. 570, § 3)
Sec. 5-4. Intention.
   It is the intention of section 3 of this act [the next preceding section] to
authorize the disbursement as supplemental retirement benefits only of the
income derived in any calendar year from the investments of funds belonging to
the supplemental retirement fund and the local relief fund, and it is the
intention of section 2 of this act [the second section preceding] to require
that the funds paid into the supplemental retirement fund pursuant to
subsections (a) and (b) thereof shall be held in trust, and that no funds paid
into the supplemental retirement fund pursuant to subsections (a) and (b)
thereof or as a gift, grant, bequest or donation to such fund shall ever be
disbursed except as and when required by subsection c thereof.
(S.L. 1967, c. 570, § 4)
Sec. 5-5. Investment of funds.
   The board of trustees is hereby authorized to invest any funds, either of
the local relief fund or of the supplemental retirement fund, in any investment
named in or authorized by either G.S. § 160-411.5 or G.S. § 160-431, and is
hereby directed to invest all of the funds of the supplemental retirement fund
in one or more of such investments; provided, that investments in certificates
of deposit or time deposits in any bank or trust company, or in shares of any
building and loan or savings and loan association, shall not exceed the amounts
insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the Federal Savings and
Loan Insurance Corporation, as the case may be, unless such deposits or
investments in shares are secured in the manner provided by G.S. § 159-28.
(S.L. 1967, c. 570, § 5)
Editor’s note:
   The G.S. sections cited in this section has been repealed.
Sec. 5-6. Acceptance of gifts.
   The board of trustees is hereby authorized to accept any gift, grant,
bequest or donation of money for the use of the supplemental retirement fund.
(S.L. 1967, c. 570, § 6)
Sec. 5-7. Bond of treasurer.
   The board of trustees shall bond the treasurer of the local relief fund with
a good and sufficient bond, in an amount at least equal to the amount of funds
in his control, payable to the board of trustees, and conditioned upon the
faithful performance of his duties; such bond shall be in lieu of the bond
required by G.S. § 118-6. The board of trustees shall pay the premiums on the
bond of the treasurer.
(S.L. 1967, c. 570, § 7)
Editor’s note:
   The G.S. Chapter containing the statute cited in this section has been
recodified as G.S. §§ 58-84-1 through 58-88-30.
Article 6. Service of notice related to housing and building code violations
   Sec.
6-1.   Requirement for owners of rental property within the city to authorize
an agent to accept service of process.
Sec. 6-1. Requirement for owners of rental property within the city to
authorize an agent to accept service of process.
   The City Council may, by ordinance, require that each owner of rental
property within the city authorize a person residing in Pitt County to serve as
the owner’s agent for the purpose of accepting service of process in an action
involving a violation of an ordinance adopted under Part 5 or 6 of Article 19
of Chapter 160A of the General Statutes. The owner shall provide, on a form
supplied by the city clerk, the authorized agent’s name and address. The owner
shall notify the city clerk of any changes in the information provided not more
than 10 days after the changes have occurred. Nothing in this section requires
an owner to designate an agent to accept service of process where the owner of
the rental property resides within Pitt County.
(S.L. 2001, c. 104, § 1)
Editor’s note:
   This act applies to the City of Greenville only.
Article 7. Reserved
Editor’s note:
   Chapter 44 of the Session Laws of 1977, from which former Art. 7 derived,
was repealed in its entirety by a local act merging the Pitt County School
System with the Greenville School System. The deleted article pertained to the
board of education.
Article 8. Alternative Condemnation Procedures
   Sec.
8-1.   Authority to use general law procedures.
   Sec.
8-2.   Substitution of certain terms in general law provisions.
   Sec.
8-3.   Reading of general law as applicable to city.
   Sec.
8-4.   Public utility service corporations.
   Sec.
8-5.   Applicability of act; independent appraisals.
   Sec.
8-6.   Act in addition to other laws.
Sec. 8-1. Authority to use general law procedures.
   In exercising the power of eminent domain for any public purpose, if
negotiations for the purchase of land or rights in land are unsuccessful, the
City of Greenville may, in its discretion, use the procedures of article 9 of
chapter 136 of the General Statutes as now in force or as may hereafter be
amended, as well as the procedures of any other general law, charter or local
act applicable to the city.
(S.L. 1977, c. 716, § 1)
Sec. 8-2. Substitution of certain terms in general law provisions.
   As contained in article 9 of chapter 136 of the General Statutes, when such
chapter is used by the City of Greenville for condemnation, all reference
therein to “Board of Transportation” shall be deemed to mean “City of
Greenville”; all reference to the “Chairman of the Board of Transportation” or
“Director of Highways” shall be deemed to mean “Mayor of the City of
Greenville”; all references to authority or persons or agencies connected
therewith shall be deemed to refer to the City of Greenville.
(S.L. 1977, c. 716, § 2)
Sec. 8-3. Reading of general law as applicable to city.
   When article 9 of chapter 136 of the General Statutes, as now in force or as
shall be hereafter amended, are used as a condemnation procedure by the City of
Greenville, the chapter will be read as if it were applicable to the City of
Greenville.
(S.L. 1977, c. 716, § 3)
Sec. 8-4. Public utility service corporations.
   The provisions of this act shall not apply with regard to properties owned
by public service corporations as defined in G.S. § 160A-243 unless the
exercise of such power of eminent domain is either consented to by the owner of
the property to be acquired by the city, or otherwise first adjudicated after
notice and a hearing that such acquisition will not prevent or unreasonably
impair the continued devotion to the public use of such properties and the
operation by such public service corporation.
(S.L. 1977, c. 716, § 4)
Editor’s note:
   The G.S. section cited in this section has been repealed.
Sec. 8-5. Applicability of act; independent appraisals.
   This act is applicable only to the City of Greenville and the taking by the
City of Greenville of property for a public purpose and provided further that
in all times before using the authority given in this act, the City of
Greenville shall always get an independent appraisal of the sum estimated as
just compensation for the taking.
(S.L. 1977, c. 716, § 5)
Sec. 8-6. Act in addition to other laws.
   This act shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any other powers
already held by general laws or otherwise.
(S.L. 1977, c. 716, § 6)
Article 9. Trees
   Sec.
9-1.   Regulating trees.
   Sec.
9-2.   Authority to limit the clear-cutting of trees in buffer zones prior to
development.
Sec. 9-1. Regulating trees.
   Article 8 of Chapter 160A of the General Statutes is amended by inserting a
new section therein as follows:
   “§ 160A-196. Regulating trees. A city may by ordinance regulate the
planting, maintenance, and removal of trees on public property and rights-of-
way. In order to protect and conserve trees on public property and rights-of-
way, a city may by ordinance provide for the treatment or removal of diseased
trees and shrubs on private property and may regulate the digging of trenches
or other activities on private property that endanger such trees. A city may
also by ordinance provide for the trimming or removal of trees on private
property when they obscure street lights, interfere with utility lines, or
constitute a hazard to pedestrian or vehicular traffic. Ordinances adopted
under authority of this section must be the subject of a public hearing before
final action is taken.”
(S.L. 1977, c. 328, § 1)
Editor’s note:
   This act shall apply to the following cities and towns: Wilson and
Greenville.
(S.L. 1977, c. 328, § 2)
Sec. 9-2. Authority to limit the clear-cutting of trees in buffer zones prior
to development.
    (a)   A municipality may adopt ordinances to regulate the removal and
preservation of existing trees with a diameter of breast height of six inches
or greater prior to development within a perimeter buffer zone of up to 50 feet
along public roadways and property boundaries adjacent to developed properties
and up to 25 feet along property boundaries adjacent to undeveloped properties.
   (b)   Ordinances adopted pursuant to this act shall:
      (1)   Provide that the requirement of the ordinances apply only to
activity occurring on undeveloped property prior to the approval of a site
plan, subdivision plan, or other authorized development plan or permit for the
property and that, after approval of a site plan, subdivision plan, or other
authorized development plan or permit for the property, the property, including
the property within the perimeter buffer zones, may be developed in accordance
with applicable regulations governing development of the property.
      (2)   Provide that the area of the required perimeter buffer zones shall
not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the area of the tract, net of public road
rights-of-way, and any required conservation easements.
      (3)   Provide that the perimeter buffer zones that adjoin public roadways
shall be measured from the edge of the public road right-of-way.
      (4)   Provide that tracts of two acres or less are exempt from the
requirements of the ordinances.
      (5)   Provide that a survey of individual trees is not required.
      (6)   Include reasonable provisions for access onto and within the
subject property.
      (7)   Exclude forestry activities on property that is taxed on the basis
of its present-use value as forestland under Article 12 of Chapter 105 of the
General Statutes and forestry activity that is conducted in accordance with a
forestry management plan prepared or approved by a forester registered pursuant
to Chapter 89B of the General Statutes. However, for the properties described
in this subdivision, a municipality may deny a building permit or refuse to
approve a site or subdivision plan for a period of up to three years after the
completion of the forestry activity if the forestry activity results in the
removal of all or substantially all of the trees that were protected under an
ordinance adopted pursuant to this act from the tract of land for which the
permit or plan approval is sought.
      (8)   Provide that a municipality may deny a building permit or refuse to
approve a site or subdivision plan for a period of up to three years after the
completion of the removal of trees from the required perimeter buffer zones if
the removal of trees results in the removal of all or substantially all of the
trees that were protected under an ordinance adopted pursuant to this act from
the tract of land for which the permit or plan approval is sought.
   (c)    Before adopting an ordinance authorized by Section 1 of this act, the
governing board of the municipality shall hold a public hearing on the proposed
ordinance. Notice of the public hearing shall be given in accordance with G.S.
§ 160A-364.
   (d)   Nothing in this act shall be construed to limit or be limited by any
other existing laws or ordinances.
   (e)   This act applies to the City of Greenville only, and to property
located within the City’s corporate limits and extraterritorial planning
jurisdiction under Article 19 of Chapter 160A of the General Statutes.
(S.L. 2006-102)
Article 10. Motor Vehicles
   Sec.
10-1.   Violations of parking regulations.
   Sec.
10-2.   Authority to increase vehicle tax.
   Sec.
10-3.   Authority to use wheel locks.
   Sec.
10-4.   Authority to hold post-towing hearings for abandoned or junked vehicles
removed from private property without the owner’s request.
   Sec.
10-5.   Authority to charge a fee not to exceed five dollars for uncertified
copies of police incident or accident reports.
   Sec.
10-6.   Authority to use photographic images as prima facie evidence of a
traffic violation and to prevent insurance points from being assessed.
   Sec.
10-7.   Requirement of pretowing notices before a motor vehicle may be towed
from a private lot, garage, or other parking facility.
   Sec.
10-8.   Regulating abandoned or junked motor vehicles.
Sec. 10-1. Violations of parking regulations.
   G.S. § 20-162.1. Prima facie rule of evidence for enforcement of parking
regulations.
   (a)   Whenever evidence shall be presented in any court of the fact that any
automobile, truck, or other vehicle was found upon any street, alley or other
public place contrary to and in violation of the provisions of any statute or
of any municipal ordinance limiting the time during which any such vehicle may
be parked or prohibiting or otherwise regulating the parking of any such
vehicle, it shall be prima facie evidence in any court in the State of North
Carolina that such vehicle was parked and left upon such street, alley or
public way or place by the person, firm or corporation in whose name such
vehicle is then registered and licensed according to the records of the
department or agency of the State of North Carolina, by whatever name
designated, which empowered to register such vehicles and to issue licenses for
their operation upon the streets and highways of this state; provided, that no
evidence tendered or presented under the authorization contained in this
section shall be admissible or competent in any respect in any court or
tribunal, except in cases concerned solely with violation of statutes or
ordinances limiting, prohibiting or otherwise regulating the parking of
automobiles or other vehicles upon public streets, highways, or other public
places.
   Any person convicted pursuant to this section shall be subject to a penalty
of not more than five dollars ($5.00).
   (b)   The prima facie rule of evidence established by subsection (a) shall
not apply to the registered owner of a leased or rented vehicle parked in
violation of law when said owner can furnish sworn evidence that the vehicle
was, at the time of the parking violation, leased or rented, to another person.
In such instances, the owner of the vehicle shall, within a reasonable time
after notification of the parking violation, furnish the courts the name and
address of the person or company who leased or rented the vehicle.
(1953, c. 879, §§ 1, 1-1/2; 1983, c. 753; 1985, c. 764, § 32)
Editor’s note:
   Chapter 160 of the Session Laws of 1983, was amended by Chapter 813 of the
Session Laws of 1985 (Regular Session, 1986) to include Greenville in the list
of cities to which this act applies. See § 10-2. This act applies only to the
following cities: Greenville, Jacksonville, and Winston-Salem.  
(1983, c. 160, § 2; 1985, c. 152; 1985, c. 813)
Sec. 10-2. Authority to increase vehicle tax.
   All taxes levied under the provisions of this Article are intended as
compensatory taxes for the use and privileges of the public highways of this
State, and shall be paid by the Commissioner to the State Treasurer, to be
credited by him to the State Highway Fund; and no county or municipality shall
levy any license or privilege tax upon any motor vehicle licensed by the State
of North Carolina, except that cities and towns other than the City of Durham
may levy not more than twenty dollars ($20.00) per year upon any vehicle
resident therein, and except that the City of Durham may levy not more than one
dollar ($1.00) per year upon any vehicle resident therein. Provided, further,
that cities and towns may levy, in addition to the amounts hereinabove provided
for, a sum not to exceed fifteen dollars ($15.00) per year upon each vehicle
operated in such city or town as a taxicab.
(S.L. 1993, c. 200, § 1)
Editor’s note:
   This act applies to the City of Greenville only.
Sec. 10-3. Authority to use wheel locks.
   The City Council of the City of Greenville may provide, by ordinance, for
the use of wheel locks on illegally parked vehicles for which there are three
or more unpaid parking tickets which are at least 90 days overdue. The
ordinance shall provide for notice or warning to be affixed to the vehicle,
immobilization, towing, impoundment, appeal hearing, an immobilization fee not
to exceed fifty ($50.00) dollars, and charges for towing and storage. The City
of Greenville shall not be responsible for any damage to an immobilized
illegally parked vehicle resulting from unauthorized attempts to free or move
that vehicle.
(1994, c. 609, § 1)
(S.L. 1993, c. 609, § 2)
Editor’s note:
   This act applies to the City of Greenville only.
Sec. 10-4. Authority to hold post-towing hearings for abandoned or junked
vehicles removed from private property without the owner’s request.
   G.S. § 160A-303.2(a3) reads as rewritten:
   (a3)   Hearing procedure -- Regardless of whether a city does its own
removal and disposal of motor vehicles or contracts with another person to do
so, the city shall provide a hearing procedure for the owner. For purposes of
this subsection, the definitions in G.S. § 20-219.9 apply.
      (1)   If the city operates in such a way that the person who tows the
vehicle is responsible for collecting towing fees, all provisions of Article
7A, Chapter 20, apply.
      (2)   If the city operates in such a way that it is responsible for
collecting towing fees, it shall:
         (a)   Provide by contract or ordinance for a schedule of reasonable
towing fees,
         (b)   Provide a procedure for a prompt fair hearing to contest the
towing,
         (c)   Provide for an appeal to district court from that hearing,
         (d)   Authorize release of the vehicle at any time after towing by the
posting of a bond or paying of the fees due, and
         (e)   Provide a sale procedure similar to that provided in G.S. §§
44A-4, 44A-5, and 44A-6, except that no hearing in addition to the probable
cause hearing is required. If no one purchases the vehicle at the sale and if
the value of the vehicle is less than the amount of the lien, the city may
destroy it.
(S.L. 1998, c. 80, § 1)
Editor’s note:
   This act applies to the City of Greenville only.
Sec. 10-5. Authority to charge a fee not to exceed five dollars for uncertified
copies of police incident or accident reports.
   A municipality may charge a fee not to exceed five dollars ($5.00) for an
uncertified copy of a police incident or accident report, except that the
operator of a vehicle involved in an accident shall be entitled to one free
copy of an uncertified copy. The fees collected shall be used for law
enforcement purposes only.
(S.L. 1998, c. 108, § 1)
Editor’s note:
   This act applies to the Towns of Denton and Farmville and the City of
Greenville only.
Sec. 10-6. Authority to use photographic images as prima facie evidence of a
traffic violation and to prevent insurance points from being assessed.
   G.S. § 160A-300.1. Use of traffic control photographic systems.
   (a)   A traffic control photographic system is an electronic system
consisting of a photographic, video, or electronic camera and a vehicle sensor
installed to work in conjunction with an official traffic control device to
automatically produce photographs, video, or digital images of each vehicle
violating a standard traffic control statute or ordinance.
   (b)   Any traffic control photographic system or any device which is a part
of that system, as described in subdivision (a) of this section, installed on a
street or highway which is a part of the State highway system shall meet
requirements established by the North Carolina Department of Transportation.
Any traffic control system installed on a municipal street shall meet standards
established by the municipality and shall be consistent with any standards set
by the Department of Transportation.
      (1)   Any traffic control photographic system installed on a street or
highway must be identified by appropriate advance warning signs conspicuously
posted not more than 300 feet from the location of the traffic control
photographic system. All advance warning signs shall be consistent with a
statewide standard adopted by the Department of Transportation in conjunction
with local governments authorized to install traffic control photographic
systems.
   (c)   Municipalities may adopt ordinances for the civil enforcement of G.S.
§ 20-158 by means of a traffic control photographic system, as described in
subsection (a) of this section. Notwithstanding the provisions of G.S. § 20-
176, in the event that a municipality adopts an ordinance pursuant to this
section, a violation of G.S. § 20-158 at a location at which a traffic control
photographic system is in operation shall not be an infraction. An ordinance
authorized by this subsection shall provide that:
      (1)   The owner of a vehicle shall be responsible for a violation unless
the owner can furnish evidence that the vehicle was, at the time of the
violation, in the care, custody, or control of another person. The owner of the
vehicle shall not be responsible for the violation if the owner of the vehicle,
within 21 days after notification of the violation, furnishes the officials or
agents of the municipality which issued the citation:
         a.   The name and address of the person or company who leased, rented,
or otherwise had the care, custody, and control of the vehicle; or
         b.   An affidavit stating that the vehicle involved was, at the time,
stolen or in the care, custody, or control of some person who did not have
permission of the owner to use the vehicle.
      (2)   A violation detected by a traffic control photographic system shall
be deemed a noncriminal violation for which a civil penalty of fifty dollars
($50.00) shall be assessed, and for which no points authorized by G.S. § 20-16
(c) shall be assigned to the owner or driver of the vehicle nor insurance
points as authorized by G.S. § 58-567-65.
      (3)   The owner of the vehicle shall be issued a citation which shall
clearly state the manner in which the violation may be challenged, and the
owner shall comply with the directions on the citation. The citation shall be
processed by officials or agents of the municipality and shall be forwarded by
personal service or first-class mail to the address given on the motor vehicle
registration. If the owner fails to pay the civil penalty or to respond to the
citation within the time period specified on the citation, the owner shall have
waived the right to contest responsibility for the violation, and shall be
subject to a civil penalty not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00). The
municipality may establish procedures for the collection of these penalties and
may enforce the penalties by civil action in the nature of debt.
      (4)   The municipality shall institute a nonjudicial administrative
hearing to review objections to citations or penalties issued or assessed under
this section.
(S.L. 1999, c. 182, § 1)
Editor’s note:
   This act applies to the cities of Charlotte, Fayetteville, Greenville,
Wilmington and Greensboro, and the Towns of Huntersville, Matthews, and
Cornelius only.
   This act becomes effective January 1, 2000.
Sec. 10-7. Requirement of pretowing notices before a motor vehicle may be towed
from a private lot, garage, or other parking facility.
   G.S. § 160A-301(b1).
   A city may by ordinance require that pretowing notices be displayed on lots,
garages, or other parking facilities not owned or leased by the city. Pretowing
notices shall be displayed before vehicles parked without the permission of the
owner or lessee of the lot, garage, or other parking facility not owned or
leased by the city, may be towed or removed from that lot, garage, or other
parking facility. The city may provide penalties for violation of the ordinance
created under this subsection.
(S.L. 2001, c.46, § 1)
Editor’s note:
   This act applies to the cities of Greenville and Chapel Hill only.
Sec. 10-8. Regulating abandoned or junked motor vehicles.
   G.S. § 160A-303.2(a).
   A municipality may by ordinance regulate, restrain or prohibit the
abandonment of junked motor vehicles on public grounds and on private property
within the municipality’s ordinance-making jurisdiction upon a finding that
such regulation, restraint or prohibition is necessary and desirable to promote
or enhance community, neighborhood or area appearance, and may enforce any such
ordinance by removing or disposing of junked motor vehicles subject to the
ordinance according to the procedures prescribed in this section. The authority
granted by this section shall be supplemental to any other authority conferred
upon municipalities. Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize a
municipality to require the removal or disposal of a motor vehicle kept or
stored at a bona fide “automobile graveyard” or “junkyard” as defined in G.S. §
136-143.
    For purposes of this section, the term “junked motor vehicle” means a
vehicle that does not display a current license plate and that:
        (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked; or
   (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it originally
was intended to move; or
   (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than five
hundred ($500) dollars.
(S.L. 2004, c. 30 § 1)
Editor’s note:
   This act applies to the cities of Greenville, Henderson, and Waynesville
only.
Article 11. Charter Amendments
   Sec.
11-1.   Amendment by ordinance.
Sec. 11-1. Amendment by ordinance.
   G.S. § 160A-102. Amendment by ordinance.
   By following the procedure set out in this section, the council may amend
the city charter by ordinance to implement any of the optional forms set out in
G.S. § 160A-101. The council shall first adopt a resolution of intent to
consider an ordinance amending the charter. The resolution of intent shall
describe the proposed charter amendments briefly but completely and with
reference to the pertinent provisions of G.S. § 160A-101, but it need not
contain the precise text of the charter amendments necessary to implement the
proposed changes. At the same time that a resolution of intent is adopted, the
council shall also call a public hearing on the proposed charter amendments,
the date of the hearing to be not more than 45 days after adoption of the
resolution. A notice of the hearing shall be published at least once not less
than 10 days prior to the date fixed for the public hearing, and shall contain
a summary of the proposed amendments. Following the public hearing, but not
earlier than the next regular meeting of the council and not later than 60 days
from the date of the hearing, the council may adopt an ordinance amending the
charter to implement the amendments proposed in the resolution of intent.
   The council may, but shall not be required to unless a referendum petition
is received pursuant to G.S. § 160A-103, make any ordinance adopted pursuant to
this section effective only if approved by a vote of the people, and may by
resolution adopted at the same time call a special election for the purpose of
submitting the ordinance to a vote. The date fixed for the special election
shall be not more than 90 days after adoption of the ordinance.
   Within 10 days after an ordinance is adopted under this section, the council
shall publish a notice stating that an ordinance amending the charter has been
adopted and summarizing its contents and effect. If the ordinance is made
effective subject to a vote of the people, the Council shall publish a notice
of the election in accordance with G.S. § 163-287, and need not publish a
separate notice of adoption of the ordinance.
   The council may not commence proceedings under this section between the time
of the filing of a valid initiative petition pursuant to G.S. § 160A-104 and
the date of any election called pursuant to such petition.
   If a city adopts an ordinance pursuant to this section to be effective only
if approved by a vote of the people, and the date fixed for the referendum is
the date of the next regular municipal election, the ordinance may be adopted
at any time, irrespective of time frames which would otherwise be required by
this section, provided the ordinance is adopted at least 45 days prior to the
election.
(1989, c. 359, § 1)
Sec. 11-2. Applicability of act.
   This act applies to the City of Greenville only.
Article 12. Abandoned Structures
   Sec.
12-1.   Authority to address abandoned structures.
Sec. 12-1. Authority to address abandoned structures.
   G.S. § 160A-443(5a). If the governing body shall have adopted an ordinance,
or the public officer shall have:
      a.   In a municipality other than municipalities with a population in
excess of 190,000 by the last federal census, issued an order, ordering a
dwelling to be repaired or vacated and closed, as provided in subdivision (3)a,
and if the owner has vacated and closed such dwelling and kept such dwelling
vacated and closed for a period of six months pursuant to the ordinance or
order;
      b.   In a municipality with a population in excess of 190,000 by the last
federal census, commenced proceedings under the substandard housing regulations
regarding a dwelling to be repaired or vacated and closed, as provided in
subdivision (3)a., and if the owner has vacated and closed such dwelling and
kept such dwelling vacated and closed for a period of one year pursuant to the
ordinance or after such proceedings have commenced, then if the governing body
shall find that the owner has abandoned the intent and purpose to repair, alter
or improve the dwelling in order to render it fit for human habitation and that
the continuation of the dwelling in its vacated and closed status would be
inimical to the health, safety, morals and welfare of the municipality in that
the dwelling would continue to deteriorate, would create a fire and safety
hazard, would be a threat to children and vagrants, would attract persons
intent on criminal activities, would cause or contribute to blight and the
deterioration of property values in the area, and would render unavailable
property and a dwelling which might otherwise have been made available to ease
the persistent shortage of decent and affordable housing in this State, then in
such circumstances, the governing body may, after the expiration of such six
months, enact an ordinance and serve such ordinance on the owner, setting forth
the following
      a.   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling to render it fit
for human habitation can be made at a cost not exceeding fifty percent (50%) of
the then current value of the dwelling, the ordinance shall require that the
owner either repair or demolish and remove the dwelling within 90 days; or
      b.   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling to render it fit
for human habitation cannot be made at a cost not exceeding fifty percent (50%)
of the then current value of the dwelling, the ordinance shall require the
owner to demolish and remove the dwelling within 90 days.
   This ordinance shall be recorded in the Office of the Register of Deeds in
the county wherein the property or properties are located and shall be indexed
in the name of the property owner in the grantor index. If the owner fails to
comply with this ordinance, the public officer shall effectuate the purpose of
the ordinance.
(S.L. 1998, c. 733, § 1)
Editor’s note:
   S.L. 2005-200 repealed S.L. 1990-733 and amended the period for a dwellings
being vacated and closed for a period of one year to six months. This act
applies to the Cities of Greenville and High Point only.
Article 13. Development of a Convention Center
   Sec.
13-1.   Exercising authority to undertake one downtown development project.
   Sec.
13-2.   Applicability of act.
Sec. 13-1. Exercising authority to undertake one downtown development project.
   The City of Greenville may exercise its authority under G.S. § 160A-458.3 to
undertake one downtown development project, subject to the following
conditions:
   (1)   The City shall not be required to locate a project authorized by G.S.
§ 160A-458.3 in the central business district.
   (2)   The City Council shall not be required to find that the project is
likely to have a significant positive effect on the revitalization of the
central business district.
   (3)   The project shall not be subject to Article 8 of Chapter 143 of the
General Statutes, if funds other than City funds constitute at least twenty-
five percent (25%) of the total cost of the construction and renovation of the
public and private facilities included in the project.
(S.L. 1998, c. 144, § 1)
Sec. 13-2. Applicability of act.
   This act only applies to one project that includes, as one of its
facilities, the development of a convention center, civic center, or meeting
facility within the corporate limits of the City of Greenville.
(S.L. 1998, c. 144, § 2)
Editor’s note:
   This act only applies to the City of Greenville.  
(S.L. 1998, c. 144, § 3)
Article 14. City’s Overgrown Vegetation Ordinance
   Sec.
14-1.   City to give annual notice of violation to chronic violators of the
city’s overgrown vegetation ordinance.
Sec. 14-1. City to give annual notice of violation to chronic violators of the
city’s overgrown vegetation ordinance.
   A municipality may notify a chronic violator of the municipality’s overgrown
vegetation ordinance that, if the violator’s property is found to be in
violation of the ordinance, the municipality shall, without further notice in
the calendar year in which notice is given, take action to remedy the violation
and the expense of the action shall become a lien upon the property and shall
be collected as unpaid taxes. The notice shall be served by registered or
certified mail. A chronic violator is a person who owns property whereupon, in
the previous calendar year, the municipality took remedial action at least
three times under the overgrown vegetation ordinance.
(S.L. 1998, c. 108, § 1)
Editor’s note:
   This act applies to the Towns of Denton and Farmville and the City of
Greenville only.
(S.L. 1998, c. 108, § 2)
Article 15. Fire Protection
   Sec.
15-1.   Fire alarms.
Sec. 15.1. Fire alarms.
   Notwithstanding any provision of the State Building Code or any public or
local law to the contrary, including Chapter 143 of the General Statutes, the
City of Greenville may require by ordinance the installation of a fire alarm
system in all fraternity and sorority houses within the corporate limits of the
City or within the City’s extraterritorial planning jurisdiction, the
installation to be completed as provided in the ordinance within a reasonable
period of time, to be determined at the adoption of the ordinance, following
the effective date of the ordinance. A fire alarm system shall include a fire
alarm control panel, manual fire alarm pull boxes at each required exit, smoke
detectors in all sleeping areas, heat detectors in unoccupied areas, audible
devices that can be heard throughout the houses, a central monitoring station,
and a power source.
(S.L. 1999, c. 156, § 1)
Editor’s note:
   This act applies to the City of Greenville only.
(S.L. 1999, c. 156, § 2)
Article 16. Annexation
   Sec.
16-1.   Annexation agreement.
   Sec.
16-2.   Removal of the cap on satellite annexations.
Sec. 16-1. Annexation agreement.
   G.S. § 160A-58.1(b)(2) shall not apply to the City of Greenville as to any
property if the City has entered into an annexation agreement pursuant to Part
6 of Article 4A of Chapter 160A of the General Statutes with the city to which
a point on the proposed satellite corporate limits is closer and that agreement
states that the other city will not annex the property.
(S.L. 1999, c. 160A § 1)
Editor’s note:
   This act applies to the City of Greenville only.
(S.L. 1999, c. 160A, § 2)
Sec. 16-2. Removal of the cap on satellite annexations.
   G.S. § 160A-58.1(b)(5) reads as rewritten:
   (b)   A noncontiguous area proposed for annexation must meet all of the
following standards:…
      (5)   The area within the proposed satellite corporate limits, when added
to the area within all other satellite corporate limits, may not exceed ten
percent (10%) of the area within the primary corporate limits of the annexing
city.
(S.L. 2005-71, c. 160A, § 1)
Editor’s note:
   This subdivision does not apply to the Cities of Claremont, Concord,
Conover, Elizabeth City, Gastonia, Greenville, Hickory, Locust, Marion, Mount
Airy, Mount Holly, New Bern, Newton, Oxford, Randleman, Rockingham, Sanford,
Salisbury, Southport, Statesville, and Washington and the Towns of Angier,
Ayden, Bladenboro, Calabash, Catawba, Creswell, Dallas, Fuquay-Varina, Garner,
Godwin, Holly Ridge, Holly Springs, Kenly, Knightdale, Leland, Louisburg,
Maiden, Mayodan, Midland, Mocksville, Morrisville, Pembroke, Pine Level, Ranlo,
Rolesville, Rutherfordton, Surf City, Swansboro, Troy, Wallace, Warsaw,
Waynesville, Wendell, Windsor, and Zebulon.
Article 17. Public Bidding Laws
   Sec.
17-1.   Construction of parking structure projects in central business district
exempt from certain public bidding laws.
   Sec.
17-2.   Application of act.
   Sec.
17-3.   Expiration of act.
Sec. 17-1. Construction of parking structure projects in central business
district exempt from certain public bidding laws.
Except for G.S. § 143-128.2 and G.S. § 143-128.3, the provisions of Article 8
of Chapter 143 of the General Statutes do not apply to the construction of
parking structure projects in the central business district, as that district
is defined by the City Council.
(S.L. 2004, c. 143, § 1)
Sec. 17-2. Applicability of act.
This act applies only to the City of Greenville.
(S.L. 2004, c. 143, § 2)
Sec. 17-3. Expiration date of act.
This act is effective when it becomes law and expires January 1, 2010.
(S.L. 2004, c. 143, § 3)
Editor’s note:
   This act applies to the City of Greenville only.
Article 18. Appointment of Housing Authority Commissioners
   Sec.
18-1.   Appointment, qualifications and tenure of Commissioners.
   Sec.
18-2.   Applicability of act.
   Sec.
18-3.   Effective date.
Sec. 18-1. Appointment, qualifications and tenure of Commissioners.
   G.S. § 157-5 reads as rewritten: § 157-5. Appointment, qualifications and
tenure of commissioners.
      (a)   An authority shall consist of not less than five nor more than
eleven Commissioners. One Commissioner shall be appointed by the Mayor, and all
other Commissioners shall be appointed by the City Council. No Commissioner may
be a city official. At least one of the Commissioners appointed shall be a
person who is directly assisted by the public housing authority. However, there
shall be no requirement to appoint such a person if the authority: (i) operates
less than 300 public housing units, (ii) provides reasonable notice to the
resident advisory board of the opportunity for at least one person who is
directly assisted by the authority to serve as a Commissioner, and (iii) within
a reasonable time after receipt of the notice by the resident advisory board,
has not been notified of the intention of any such person to serve. The City
Council shall appoint the person directly assisted by the authority unless the
authority’s rules require that the person be elected by other persons who are
directly assisted by the authority. If the Commissioner directly assisted by
the public housing authority ceases to receive such assistance, the
Commissioner’s office shall be abolished and another person who is directly
assisted by the public housing authority shall be appointed by the City
Council.
      (d)   The Mayor shall designate overlapping terms of not less than one
nor more than five years for the Commissioners first appointed. Thereafter, the
term of office shall be five years. A Commissioner shall hold office until his
or her successor has been appointed and has qualified. Vacancies shall be
filled for the unexpired term. A majority of the Commissioners shall constitute
a quorum. Where the appointment is made by the Mayor, the Mayor shall file with
the City Clerk a certificate of the appointment or reappointment of any
Commissioner and such certificate shall be conclusive evidence of the due and
proper appointment of such Commissioner. Where the appointment is made by the
City Council, the City Council shall adopt a resolution or motion of
appointment or reappointment of any Commissioner, and the resolution or record
of the official act shall be conclusive evidence of the due and proper
appointment of the Commissioner. Where the appointment is made by the City
Council, nominations to the City Council for the appointment shall be made by
City Council members on a rotating basis in accordance with a procedure adopted
by the City Council that provides each city council member, on an equitable
basis, an assigned position in the rotation to make a nomination for an
appointment when the time for appointment occurs. A Commissioner shall receive
no compensation for his or her services but he or she shall be entitled to the
necessary expenses including traveling expenses incurred in the discharge of
his or her duties.
(S.L. 2009, c. 157, § 1)
Sec. 18-2. Applicability of act.
   This act applies to the City of Greenville only.
(S.L. 2009, c. 157, § 2)
Sec. 18-3. Effective date.
   This act is effective when it becomes law and applies to appointments and
reappointments commencing on or after that date.
(S.L. 2009, c. 157, § 3)
Editor’s note:
   This act applies to the City of Greenville only.
LOCAL ACTS DISPOSITION TABLE
Date Subject Disposition
Date    Subject                                                              Disposition
1919
Private Grave removals                                                       1-1 et seq.
laws,
Ch. 76
1931
Private Sheppard Memorial Library                                            2-1, 2-2
laws,
Ch. 12
1931
Private Boxing commission                                                    R
laws,
Ch. 123
1941
Public-
local   Utilities commission                                                 3-1 et seq.
laws,
Ch. 145
1941
Public-                                                                      Art. 4,
local   Airport authority                                                    note
laws,
Ch. 403
1943
Session Airport authority                                                    Art. 4,
laws,                                                                        note
Ch. 144
1949
Session Supplemental retirement appropriations                               NC
laws,
Ch. 562
1953
Session Utilities commission                                                 3-1 et seq.
laws,
Ch. 801
1955
Session Cemetery purchase fund                                               R
laws,
Ch. 411
1961
Session City-county law library                                              2-3 et seq.
laws,
Ch. 549
1965
Session Extraterritorial jurisdiction                                        R
laws,
Ch. 376
1967
Session Utilities commission                                                 R
laws,
Ch. 569
1967
Session Firemen’s supplemental retirement fund                             5-1 et seq.
laws,
Ch. 570
1967
Session Airport authority                                                    4-1 et seq.
laws,
Ch. 571
1969
Session Utilities commission                                                 3-2
laws,
Ch. 154
1977
Session Board of Education                                                   7-1 et seq.
laws,
Ch. 44
1977
Session Trees                                                                9-1, 9-2
laws,
Ch. 328
1977
Session Alternative condemnation procedures                                  8-1 et seq.
laws,
Ch. 716
1979
Session Utilities commission                                                 3-1
laws,
Ch. 355
1983
Session Repeals 6-1, 6-2 cemetery purchase fund                              Art. 6
laws,                                                                        (note)
Ch. 232
1983
Session Abolishes Tar River Port Commission                                  NC
laws,
Ch. 233
1985
Session Increases penalty for parking violations                             10-1 (note)
laws,
Ch. 813
1986
Session Repeals Ch. 44, 1977 Session laws, Board of Education                Art. 7
laws,                                                                        (note)
Ch. 796
1989
Session Establishes procedure for Charter amendment by ordinance             11-1
laws,
Ch. 359
1992
Session Utilities commission                                                 3-1 et seq.
laws,
Ch. 861
1993
Session Authorizes increase in vehicle tax to a maximum of $20               10-2
laws,
Ch. 200
1993
Session Authorizes use of wheel locks                                        10-3
laws,
Ch. 609
1998
Session Repealed by S. L. 2005-200                                            
laws,
Ch. 414
1998
Session Development of a convention center                                   13-1 et
laws,                                                                        seq.
Ch. 144
1998
Session Authority to hold post-towing hearings for abandoned or junked       10-4
laws,   vehicles removed from private property without the owner’s request
Ch. 80
1998
Session Authorizes a fee to be charged for police reports                    10-5
laws,
Ch. 108
1998
Session Authorizes the city to give annual notice of violation to chronic    14-1
laws,   violators of the overgrown vegetation ordinance
Ch. 108
1999    Authorizes the city to use photographic images as prima facie
Session evidence of a traffic violation and to prevent insurance points from 10-6
laws,   being assessed
Ch. 182
1999    Expands the permissible purposes of the Greenville Utilities
Session Commission to charge appropriate fees for expanded services          3-12
laws
1999
Session Authorizes the city to require fire alarm systems in fraternity and  15-1
laws,   sorority houses
Ch. 156
1999
Session
laws,   Authorizes the city to annex property                                16-1
Ch.
160A
2001    Authorizes the city to require pretowing notices before a motor
Session vehicle may be towed from a private lot, garage, or other parking    10-7
laws,   facility
Ch. 46
2001
Session Authorizes the city to require owners of rental property within the  6-1
laws,   city to authorize an agent to accept service of process
Ch. 104
2004
Session Regulates abandoned or junked vehicles                               10-8
laws,
Ch. 30
2004
Session Exempts from certain public bidding laws the construction of parking 17-1 et
laws,   structure projects in the central business district                  seq.
Ch. 143
2005
Session Authorizes the city to order dwellings determined unfit for human
laws,   habitation repaired or demolished after a period of six months        
Ch.
160A
2005
Session
laws,   Removal of the cap on satellite annexations.                         16-2
Ch.
160A
2006    Authorizing the City to limit the clear-cutting of trees in buffer
Session zones prior to development                                            
Laws
2009
Session Housing Authority Commissioners                                      18-1 et
Laws,                                                                        seq.
Ch. 157
                                                                            
 
PART II:
CODE OF ORDINANCES
TITLE 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
Chapter 1.   Use and Construction of the Code
CHAPTER 1: USE AND CONSTRUCTION OF THE CODE
Section
   
1-1-1   How Code designated and cited
   
1-1-2   Provisions as continuation of existing ordinances
   
1-1-3   Definitions and rules of construction
   
1-1-4   Catchlines of sections
   
1-1-5   Civil penalty for violation of ordinance; not exclusive remedy;
continuing violations
   
1-1-6   Severability of parts of Code
   
1-1-7   Effect of repeal or expiration of ordinance
   
1-1-8   Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language
   
1-1-9   Damaging ordinances prohibited
   
1-1-10   City seal
   
1-1-11   Boundaries of extraterritorial jurisdiction
   
1-1-12   City founding date designated
   
1-1-13   Affirmative action
   
1-1-14   Reference to other sections
   
1-1-15   Reference to offices
   
1-1-16   Errors and omissions
   
1-1-17   Ordinances unaffected
   
1-1-18   Effective date of ordinances
   
1-1-19   Section histories; statutory references
   
1-1-20   Appeal process for civil citations unless otherwise specified
SEC. 1-1-1 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   The provisions in this and the following chapters and sections shall
constitute and be designated “the Code of Ordinances, City of Greenville, North
Carolina,” and may be so cited. This Code may also be cited as “the Greenville
City Code,” “the City Code” or “this Code.”
Statutory reference:
   Admission of Code in evidence, see G.S. 160A-79
SEC. 1-1-2 PROVISIONS AS CONTINUATION OF EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as those
of the Code and ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of this
Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
SEC. 1-1-3 DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   For the purpose of this Code and of all ordinances of the city, the
following definitions and rules of construction shall apply unless inconsistent
with the manifest intent of the City Council or the context clearly indicates
or requires a different meaning.
Acts by assistants.  When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be done
which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of an act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
Charter. The Charter of the City of Greenville, North Carolina.
City. The City of Greenville, in the County of Pitt, in the State of North
Carolina, except as otherwise provided.
Computation of time. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and the last day; unless the last day is
Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, in which event that day shall be excluded.
Council or City Council. The City Council of the City of Greenville.
County. The County of Pitt in the State of North Carolina, except as otherwise
provided.
Gender. Words importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied
to females as well as males.
G.S. or General Statutes. The latest edition of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, as amended.
General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms is not to
be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
In the city or within the city. Any territory, the jurisdiction of which, for
the exercise of its regulatory power, has been conferred upon the city by
general or special law.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons or
officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of the
persons or officers.
May. The action referred to is permissive.
Month. A calendar month.
Number. Words used in the singular include the plural and the plural includes
the singular number.
Oath. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words “swear” and “sworn” shall
be equivalent to the words “affirm” and “affirmed.”
Official time standard. Whenever certain hours are named in this Code, they
shall mean Standard Time or Daylight Savings Time, whichever may be in current
use in the city.
Or, and. The word “or” may be read as “and,” and the word “and” as “or,” where
the sense requires it.
Owner. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint owner,
tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or a
part of the property.
Person. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms “person” or “whoever” as applied
to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
Personal property. Includes moneys, goods, chattels, choses in action and
evidences of debt, including all things capable of ownership, not descendible
to heirs at law.
Preceding or following. Next before or next after, respectively.
Property. Includes real and personal property.
Real property. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Reasonable time. In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in
a reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, “reasonable time”
or notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
Rules of construction. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or
implication required, the same rules of construction, definition and
application shall govern the interpretation of this Code as those governing the
interpretation of state law.
Shall. The action referred to is mandatory.
Sidewalk. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line, intended for the use of pedestrians.
Signature or subscription.  Include a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The State of North Carolina.
Street. Includes public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway,
alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto within the city.
Tenant or occupant. Applied to a building or land, include any person who
occupies the whole or part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
Time or tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
Writing and written. Include printing, engraving, lithographing, and any other
mode of representing words and letters.
Year.  A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
Cross-reference:
   Special law as to applicability of ordinances of this city within certain
territory beyond corporate limits, see Part I, Related Local Laws, §
9-1, and see footnote under that section as to general laws extending police
jurisdiction of cities beyond city limits.
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see G.S. 1-593
   Rules of construction, see G.S. 12-3
SEC. 1-1-4 CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type
are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and
shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of
the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
SEC. 1-1-5 CIVIL PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF ORDINANCE; NOT EXCLUSIVE REMEDY;
CONTINUING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   In accordance with G.S. 160A-174 and G.S. 160A-175, unless this Code
of Ordinances provides otherwise, a violation of any provision hereof shall
subject the violator to a civil penalty by way of a civil ticket issued by the
City Manager or his or her designees in an amount as follows:
      (1)   First violation. A violation of any of the provisions of this Code
of Ordinances shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $100.
      (2)   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A second
violation by the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation
shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
      (3)   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations by the violator
within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject the violator
to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
   (B)   Appeals; payment of civil penalty. Unless appealed in accordance with
Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, a civil penalty
assessed for a violation of any provision of this Code of Ordinances must be
paid to and received by the revenue division of the City's Financial Services
Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
   (C)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with the appeal provisions in accordance with Part II, Title 1,
Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, if full payment for an assessed civil
penalty is not timely received by the revenue division of the City's Financial
Services Department, the City may recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or
all of the following methods:
      (1)   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
      (2)   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
      (3)   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105 A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
      (4)   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (5)   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect, satisfy, or
otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
   (D)   Separate offenses. Each violation of any provision of this Code of
Ordinances and each day that a violation continues is considered a separate
offense.
   (E)   By express statement, an ordinance contained herein may provide for
its enforcement by other remedies, as authorized in G.S. 14-4, 160A-174, and
160A-175, including the imposition of a criminal penalty unless exclude by law,
civil penalties, the ordering of appropriate equitable relief, including
injunctions, or a combination of remedies.
(Ord. No. 23-048, § 1, passed 6-8-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. 160A-175
   Violation of city ordinances a misdemeanor, see G.S. 14-4
SEC. 1-1-6 SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF CODE.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the City Council that the
sections, subsections, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are
severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, subsection or section of this
Code shall be declared unconstitutional or invalid by the valid judgment or
decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or
invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences,
subsections and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted
by the City Council without the incorporation in this Code of any such
unconstitutional or invalid phrase, clause, sentence, subsection or section.
SEC. 1-1-7 EFFECT OF REPEAL OR EXPIRATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The repeal of an ordinance or its expiration by virtue of any
provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued, any offense
committed, any penalty or punishment incurred or any proceeding commenced
before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
   (B)   When an ordinance which repealed another shall itself be repealed, the
previous ordinance shall not be revived without express words to that effect.
SEC. 1-1-8 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   (1)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code of Ordinances
which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code of Ordinances, may be
numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for
inclusion herein.
       (2)   In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any
part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded
from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent
ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be
prima facie evidence of subsequent ordinances until a time that this Code of
Ordinances and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new
Code of Ordinances by the Council.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by
amending these provisions by specific reference to this section number of this
Code in the following language: “That section ________ of the Code of
Ordinances, City of Greenville, is hereby amended to read as follows:
________.” The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to
be added, the following language may be used: “That the Code of Ordinances,
City of Greenville, North Carolina is hereby amended by adding a section to be
numbered ________, which sections reads as follows: ________.” The new
provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
SEC. 1-1-9 DAMAGING ORDINANCES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall tear or deface any of the city ordinances.
SEC. 1-1-10 CITY SEAL.
   (A)   The city seal shall be a circle, within which and following the arc at
the top shall be the words “City of Greenville” and following the arc at the
bottom shall be the initials “N.C.;” and within such circle shall be an inner
circle with words and figures “Incorporated 1774" together with a
representation of a scroll, depicting the City Charter, and representations of
tobacco leaves.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall be custodian of the city seal.
   (C)   The city seal shall be affixed to all documents which are required by
law or by the City Council to be attested thereby.
Cross-reference:
   Duties of City Clerk, see Charter §
4-6
SEC. 1-1-11 BOUNDARIES OF EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   A map entitled “Boundaries of the Extraterritorial Jurisdiction of the City
of Greenville, North Carolina,” dated July 17, 1989 and updated on a monthly
basis, is hereby adopted by reference as the official map designating the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city.
(Res. No. 1159, passed 7-17-1989)
SEC. 1-1-12 CITY FOUNDING DATE DESIGNATED.
   The date of March 19, 1774 is hereby officially recognized as the date of
the founding of the City of Greenville, North Carolina.
SEC. 1-1-13 AFFIRMATIVE ACTION.
   (A)   Statement of policy.
      (1)   Consistent with the city’s established rules, regulations and
policies, no person shall be refused employment, given preference or otherwise
discriminated against on account of race, sex, religion, age, physical
handicap, political affiliation or national origin.
      (2)   Among the practices prohibited in employment with the city and by
business contracted by the city are:
         (a)   Discrimination in regard to tenure, term promotion, salaries,
and other conditions of employment; and
         (b)   Discrimination in the selection of personnel for training and
temporary/permanent employment.
      (3)   It is declared and affirmed to be an official policy of the city to
foster, maintain, and promote equal employment opportunity among persons in its
employment and in the letting and monitoring of all contracts.
   (B)   Compliance by contractors. The city will take steps to ensure that
contractors performing work for the city shall select candidates for employment
on the basis of the candidates’ qualifications for the jobs and extend equal
opportunities with respect to compensation, training, and advancement,
including upgrading and promotion, without regard to race, sex, color,
religion, or national origin, physical or mental handicap, and ensure that
equality in such opportunities continues to be the basis of the contractors’
policies.
   (C)   Administration by City Manager. As a matter of policy, the City
Council hereby directs the City Manager as follows:
      (1)   To be responsible for maintaining an affirmative action program as
it relates to the employment, training, and promotion of minorities, women, and
older and handicapped persons by the city and contractors.
      (2)   To administer and provide policy direction for the affirmative
action program so that equal employment opportunities exist in all areas in
which funds are expended by the city.
(Res. No. 887, passed 2-14-1985)
Editor’s note:
   Resolution No. 887, enacted Feb. 14, 1985, did not specifically amend this
Code; hence, codification of the substantive provisions of such resolution as §
1-1-13 is at the discretion of the editors.
SEC. 1-1-14 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
SEC. 1-1-15 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
SEC. 1-1-16 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, that spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
SEC. 1-1-17 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this Code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
   (B)   Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
      (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this Code;
      (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or
any evidence of the city’s indebtedness;
      (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
      (4)   Any ordinance fixing the salary of any city officer or employee;
      (5)   Any right or franchise granted by the city;
      (6)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, widening, paving and the like, any street or public way in
the city;
      (7)   Any appropriation ordinance;
      (8)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or
limited term;
      (9)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor;
      (10)   Any zoning ordinance or zoning map amendment;
      (11)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
      (12)   Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the city;
      (13)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the city not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code;
      (14)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
      (15)   Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the
city; and/or
      (16)   Any personnel resolution.
Statutory reference:
   Statutes not repealed by General Statutes, see G.S. 164-7
SEC. 1-1-18 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the City Council requiring publication shall take
effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise expressly
provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
SEC. 1-1-19 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the Code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the Code section. Example:  
(Ord. No. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. No. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. No. 20,
passed 1-1-1980; Ord. No. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example:  
(G.S. 160A-11)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
         SEC. 3-5-10 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see G.S. 132-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this Code is derived from the prior Code of Ordinances
of the city, the prior Code section number shall be indicated in the history by
“(1971 Code, §       ).” The history notes following sections and the
references scattered throughout the Code are not part of the Code, but are
merely for the benefit for the user of the Code.
SEC. 1-1-20 APPEAL PROCESS FOR CIVIL CITATIONS UNLESS OTHERWISE SPECIFIED.
   (A)   The appeal process set forth in this section shall apply to the
issuance of a citation as a result of a determination that a person has
violated any provision of this Code of Ordinances which is enforced by the
imposition of a civil fine unless this Code of Ordinances otherwise provides an
appeal process which applies to the provision of the Code of Ordinances
violated.
   (B)   Whenever a citation has been issued for a violation of a provision of
this Code of Ordinances which is subject to the provisions of this section, the
person who has been issued the citation may appeal the citation to the
department head of the department which has issued the citation or the designee
of the department head. The appeal shall be in writing, shall state the reason
for the appeal, and shall be filed with the office of the department head
within five calendar days of the issuance of the citation. The department head
or designee shall conduct an informal hearing with the person appealing the
citation and consider matters presented by the person appealing the citation.
The department head or designee shall provide a written decision on the appeal
to the person appealing the citation.
(Ord. No. 10-29, § 1, 4-5-2010)
TITLE 2
GOVERNMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
   
Chapter 1.   City Council
   
Chapter 2.   Administrative Organization
   
Chapter 3.   Boards and Commissions
CHAPTER 1: CITY COUNCIL
Section
Article A. General Provisions
   
2-1-1   Appointment and terms of office of officers and employees
   
2-1-2   Bonds required of certain city personnel; blanket fidelity bonds
Article B. Meetings, Rules, Procedures
   
2-1-11   Days for regular meetings
   
2-1-12   Special meetings
   
2-1-13   Rules of order
   
2-1-14   Sergeant at arms; when Chief of Police to attend meetings
   
2-1-15   Majority vote required for appropriation of money or enactment or
alteration of ordinance and the like, at other than regular meeting
   
2-1-16   Committees
   
2-1-17   Salaries of Mayor, Mayor Pro Tempore and Council Members; amount
   
2-1-18   Same; when payable
   
2-1-19   Ratification of actions
   
2-1-20   Withdrawal of motion
Article C. Ordinances
   
2-1-31   Procedure, form; publication
   
2-1-32   Effective date
   
2-1-33   Official copy
   
2-1-34   Ordinance book
   
2-1-35   Ordinances adding to Code
   
2-1-36   Ordinances; notation of amendments and repeals
   
2-1-37   Resolutions; notation of amendments and repeals
Article D. Elections
   
2-1-51   Nonpartisan plurality method adopted
   
2-1-52   Conduct to be by county
   
2-1-53   Filing fees for candidates
   
2-1-54   Absentee voting
Editor’s note:
   Regarding Art. D, on Feb. 20, 1975, the State Board of Elections approved
the city’s request to contract with the County Board of Elections for the
conduct of city elections.
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 2-1-1 APPOINTMENT AND TERMS OF OFFICE OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   The City Council shall appoint a City Manager, a City Attorney and a City
Clerk who shall hold their positions at the pleasure of the Council. Except as
otherwise provided by the City Charter or by law, all other officers and
employees of the city shall be appointed by the City Manager to serve at his or
her pleasure.
Charter reference:
   City Attorney, City Manager appointed by City Council, see Charter §
4-2
   City Clerk appointed by City Council, see Charter §
4-6
SEC. 2-1-2 BONDS REQUIRED OF CERTAIN CITY PERSONNEL; BLANKET FIDELITY BONDS.
   (A)   Each officer, employee or agent of the city who handles or has in his
or her custody more than $100 of the city’s funds at any time, or who handles
or has access to the inventories of the city, shall, before being entitled to
assume his or her duties, give a faithful performance bond with sufficient
sureties payable to the city. The Council shall determine the amount of the
bond, and the city may pay the premium on the bond. Each bond, when approved by
the Council, shall be deposited with the Clerk. If another ordinance requires
an officer, employee or agent to be bonded, this subsection does not require an
additional bond for that officer, employee or agent. The city may adopt a
system or blanket faithful performance bonding as an alternative to individual
bonds. If such a system is adopted, requirements of individual bonds, except
for elected officials and for the Finance Officer and the Collector of Revenue,
do not apply to an officer, employee or agent covered by the blanket bond.
However, although an individual bond is required for the Collector of Revenue
or Finance Officer, those officers may also be included within the coverage of
a blanket bond if the blanket bond protects against risks not protected against
by the individual bond.
   (B)   City police officers and city personnel having authority to make
arrests, carry weapons or to make inspections shall be bonded as provided in
subsection (A) of this section, and a condition of such bond shall be to save
harmless the city against all actions, suits, claims and demands whatever by
reason of any act or omission of the bonded person in the performance of
official duty.
   (C)   In addition to the approval required by subsection (A) of this
section, all bonds shall be approved as to form by the City Attorney.
   (D)   The premium on official bonds shall be paid by the city.
Statutory reference:
    Bondings of municipal employees, see G.S. 159-29
ARTICLE B. MEETINGS, RULES, PROCEDURES
SEC. 2-1-11 DAYS FOR REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   The City Council shall hold a regular meeting on the second Thursday
of each month in the Council chambers of City Hall at 6:00 p.m.
   (B)   The City Council shall hold regular monthly meetings on the Monday
before the second Thursday of each month in the Council chambers of City Hall
at 6:00 p.m.
   (C)   The City Council shall hold regular monthly meetings on the second
Monday after the second Thursday of each month in the Council chambers of City
Hall at 6:00 p.m.
(Res. No. 690, § 1, passed 4-8-1982; Res. No. 701, § 1, passed 6-10-1982; Res.
No. 1059, § 1, passed 1-14-1988; Ord. No. 2491, § 1, passed 7-9-1992; Ord. No.
2691, § 1, passed 7-8-1993; Ord. No. 01-07, § 1, passed 1-11-2001; Ord. No. 01-
89, § 1, passed 6-14-2001; Ord. No. 02-18, § 1, passed 2-14-2002; Ord. No. 02-
69, § 1, passed 6-13-2002; Ord. No. 03-117, § 1, passed 11-13-2003; Ord. 15-
044, § 1, passed 9-1-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal Council meetings, see G.S. 160A-68 et seq.
SEC. 2-1-12 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tempore, or any two members of the Council
may at any time call a special Council meeting by signing a written notice
stating the time and place of the meeting and the subjects to be considered.
The notice shall be delivered to the Mayor and each Council Member or left at
his or her usual dwelling place at least six hours before the meeting. Only
those items of business specified in the notice may be transacted at a special
meeting, unless all members are present or have signed a written waiver of
notice. In addition to the procedures set out in this section or any city
charter, a person or persons calling a special meeting of a City Council shall
comply with the notice requirements of G.S. Chapter 143, Article 33C.
   (B)   Special meetings may be held at any time when the Mayor and all
members of the Council are present and consent thereto, or when those not
present have signed a written waiver of notice.
   (C)   During any regular meeting, or any duly called special meeting, the
Council may call or schedule a special meeting, provided that the motion or
resolution calling or scheduling any such special meeting shall specify the
time, place and purpose or purposes of the meeting and shall be adopted during
an open session.
Statutory reference:
   Special meetings, see G.S. 160A-71
SEC. 2-1-13 RULES OF ORDER.
   Except as may be provided otherwise by rule or resolution of the City
Council in any particular instance, Robert’s Rules of Order, current edition,
shall govern the parliamentary procedure of the City Council.
SEC. 2-1-14 SERGEANT AT ARMS; WHEN CHIEF OF POLICE TO ATTEND MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall designate a police officer to attend each
regular meeting of the City Council, and each special meeting when requested so
to do by the Mayor or members of the Council issuing the call for the special
meeting. Such police officer shall act as Sergeant at Arms, preserve order at
the meeting, and execute orders given him or her by the City Council.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall attend meetings of the City Council when
requested to do so by the Mayor or City Manager.
SEC. 2-1-15 MAJORITY VOTE REQUIRED FOR APPROPRIATION OF MONEY OR ENACTMENT OR
ALTERATION OF ORDINANCE AND THE LIKE, AT OTHER THAN REGULAR MEETING.
   No proposition to appropriate money, to alter or repeal any ordinance or
rule of the City Council, or to establish any new ordinance or rule, shall be
made or decided at any other than a regular meeting of the Council, except by a
majority vote of all the members of the Council.
Statutory reference:
   Quorum, see G.S. 160A-74
   Voting, see G.S. 160A-75
SEC. 2-1-16 COMMITTEES.
   The City Council, by resolution from time to time, may provide for the
establishment of standing and special committees of the Council, with such
powers and duties as the Council may consider appropriate.
SEC. 2-1-17 SALARIES OF MAYOR, MAYOR PRO TEMPORE AND COUNCIL MEMBERS; AMOUNT.
   The annual salaries of the Mayor, Mayor Pro Tempore and the other members of
the City Council shall be as established in the annual city budget.
Statutory reference:
   Compensation of Mayor and Council, see G.S. 160A-64
SEC. 2-1-18 SAME; WHEN PAYABLE.
   The annual salary of the Mayor, Mayor Pro Tempore and the other members of
the City Council shall be paid in equal monthly installments during the term of
each respective office, payable on the last day of each month.
 SEC. 2-1-19 RATIFICATION OF ACTIONS.
   To the extent permitted by law, the Council may ratify actions taken on its
behalf but without its prior approval.
(Ord. No. 2248, § 1, passed 9-13-1990)
SEC. 2-1-20 WITHDRAWAL OF MOTION.
   At any meeting of the City Council a motion may be withdrawn by the Council
Member who introduced it at any time before a vote.
(Ord. No. 2248, § 2, passed 9-13-1990)
ARTICLE C. ORDINANCES
SEC. 2-1-31 PROCEDURE, FORM; PUBLICATION.
   Every ordinance amending or repealing any ordinance and every new ordinance
shall be proposed in writing. Ordinances shall have ordinance numbers and
section captions.
SEC. 2-1-32 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   All ordinances shall be effective after the ratification thereof except
ordinances specifying some other effective date, or ordinances required by
state law to be effective only after having met specific date requirements.
SEC. 2-1-33 OFFICIAL COPY.
   A true copy of an ordinance, which has been duly enacted by the City
Council, signed by the Mayor and attested to by the City Clerk, shall be known
as an official copy of an ordinance for the city.
Statutory reference:
   Pleading and proving city ordinances, see G.S. 160A-79
SEC. 2-1-34 ORDINANCE BOOK.
   The City Clerk shall file a true copy of each ordinance, until it is
codified in this Code, in an ordinance book separate and apart from the
Council’s minutes book. The ordinance book shall be appropriately indexed and
maintained for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk. The book
shall be entitled “Ordinances at Large of the City of Greenville, North
Carolina.”
Statutory reference:
   Similar requirements on the ordinance book, see G.S. 160A-78
SEC. 2-1-35 ORDINANCES ADDING TO CODE.
   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the Code a new chapter, article or
section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this Code, the
proper number of the part, chapter, article or section.
Cross-reference:
   Specific form for amending this Code, see §
1-1-8
SEC. 2-1-36 ORDINANCES; NOTATION OF AMENDMENTS AND REPEALS.
   The City Clerk shall write on the first page of every ordinance which has
been amended or repealed, as the case may be, the word “amended” or “repealed,”
with a reference to the page of the ordinance book where the amending or
repealing ordinance can be found.
Statutory reference:
   Ordinance book required, see G.S. 160A-78
 SEC. 2-1-37 RESOLUTIONS; NOTATION OF AMENDMENTS AND REPEALS.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall enter in a well-bound book copies of all
resolutions of the City Council which are of a general and permanent nature.
The book in which such resolutions are entered shall be known as the “General
Resolutions of the City Council of the City of Greenville, North Carolina” and
shall be indexed.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall write on the first page of every such resolution
which has been amended or repealed, as the case may be, the word “amended” or
“repealed,” with a reference to the page of the resolutions book where the
amending or repealing resolution can be found.
ARTICLE D. ELECTIONS 
SEC. 2-1-51 NONPARTISAN PLURALITY METHOD ADOPTED.
   The City Council elects to adopt the nonpartisan plurality election method
for determining the results of municipal elections as set out in G.S. 163-292
of the General Statutes of North Carolina.
(Ord. No. 1058, passed 1-8-1981)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. No. 1058, Jan. 8, 1981, amended the Greenville City Charter by changing
the method of election from the nonpartisan election and runoff method to the
nonpartisan plurality method. Section 2 of that ordinance directed that Section
12-1 of the 1971 Code/this current section and any other Code provisions
concerning method of election be amended to reflect that change.
SEC. 2-1-52 CONDUCT TO BE BY COUNTY.
   The City Council elects to have the County Board of Elections conduct all
municipal elections for the city. The City Manager is authorized to negotiate a
contract leading to the agreement upon a formula mutually acceptable to the
city and the County Board of Elections for the payment of the costs of the
conduct of the election as provided by state statute.
SEC. 2-1-53 FILING FEES FOR CANDIDATES.
   In accordance with G.S. 163-294.2(e), candidates for the office of Mayor or
City Council shall pay a filing fee to the Pitt County Board of Elections as
follows:
   (A)   Candidates for Mayor: $30; and
   (B)   Candidates for City Council: $12.
SEC. 2-1-54 ABSENTEE VOTING.
   Absentee voting shall be permitted in municipal elections in the city,
including primary or general elections, or referendums.
(Res. No. 752, passed 2-10-1983)
  CHAPTER 2: ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION
Section
Article A. Administrative Offices
   
2-2-1   Collector of Revenue; duties
   
2-2-2   Finance Officer
Article B. Departmental Organization
   
2-2-11   Council to organize city government
Cross-reference:
   Appointment of City Attorney, see §
2-1-1
   Appointment of City Clerk, see §
2-1-1
   Appointment of City Manager, see §
2-1-1
Statutory reference:
   Duties of City Attorney, see G.S. 160A-173
   Duties of City Clerk specified, see G.S. 160A-171
   Minutes to be kept, see G.S. 160A-72
   Powers and duties of City Manager, see G.S. 160A-148
ARTICLE A. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES
SEC. 2-2-1 COLLECTOR OF REVENUE; DUTIES.
   The duties of the Collector of Revenue shall be to:
   (A)   Collect all taxes and assessments due to the city;
   (B)   Pay over to the City Finance Officer such money as is collected by him
or her for the account of each separate fund according to the tax levy;
   (C)   Deliver a list of all unpaid taxes with the reason therefor as
ascertainable to the City Council;
   (D)   Supply the Mayor and Council with any information as they may require
relative to the performance of his or her duties;
   (E)   Make periodic reports to the City Council listing therein all funds
collected by him or her;
   (F)   Act as Registrar of Motor Vehicles; and
   (G)   Perform other duties required by law, or as the City Manager may
direct.
(1971 Code, § 2-2-4)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of tax collector, see G.S. 105-350
SEC. 2-2-2 FINANCE OFFICER.
   The duties of the Finance Officer shall be to:
   (A)   Keep the books and accounts of the city;
   (B)   Receive and disburse all monies of the city as required under state
law;
   (C)   Countersign and preaudit all checks, drafts, contracts, purchase
orders or other documents obligating city funds;
   (D)   Report to the City Manager concerning the finances of the city, as he
or she may require;
   (E)   Maintain all records of the bonded debt of the city;
   (F)   Supervise the investment of idle funds; and
   (G)   Perform other duties assigned by the General Statutes, the City
Charter or by the City Manager.
(1971 Code, § 2-2-5)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of the Finance Officer, see G.S. 159-25
   Fiscal control generally, see G.S. 159-7 et seq.
ARTICLE B. DEPARTMENTAL ORGANIZATION
SEC. 2-2-11 COUNCIL TO ORGANIZE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   The Council may create, change, abolish and consolidate offices, positions,
departments, boards, commissions and agencies of the city government and
generally organize and reorganize the city government in order to promote
orderly and efficient administration of city affairs, subject to the following
limitations:
   (A)   The Council may not abolish any office, position, department, board,
commission or agency established and required by law.
   (B)   The Council may not combine offices or confer certain duties on the
same officer when that action is specifically forbidden by law.
   (C)   The Council may not discontinue or assign elsewhere any functions or
duties assigned by law to a particular office, position, department or agency.
CHAPTER 3: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Article A. Meetings of Public Bodies
   
2-3-1   Notice of meetings
   
2-3-2   Attendance of members
Article B. Human Relations Council
   
2-3-11   Created; purpose
   
2-3-12   Composition; appointment and terms of members
   
2-3-13   Executive Secretary; additional staff; expenses
Article C. Multimodal Transportation Commission
   
2-3-21   Creation
   
2-3-22   Members; numbers
   
2-3-23   Members; terms of office
   
2-3-24   Organization, meetings, and records
   
2-3-25   Responsibilities and duties
Article D. (Reserved)
Article E. Pitt-Greenville Airport Authority
   
2-3-51   Regulatory code; adopted by reference
   
2-3-52   Same; penalties for violation
Article F. Sheppard Memorial Library Board of Trustees
   
2-3-60   Sheppard Memorial Library Board of Trustees
   
2-3-61   Return of library materials
   
2-3-62   Penalties for violation
Article G. Environmental Advisory Commission
   
2-3-70   Created
   
2-3-71   Membership and vacancies
   
2-3-72   Responsibilities and duties
   
2-3-73   Organization
Article H. Neighborhood Advisory Board
   
2-3-81   Definitions
   
2-3-82   Creation
   
2-3-83   Composition
   
2-3-84   Meetings; officers; bylaws; records
   
2-3-85   Quorum
   
2-3-86   Decisions
   
2-3-87   Purpose
Cross-reference:
   Board of Adjustment, see §§
9-4-316 et seq.
   Historic Preservation Commission, see §§
9-7-1 et seq.
   Planning and Zoning Commission, see §§
9-2-1 et seq.
   Recreation and Parks Commission, see §§
7-2-1 et seq.
Editor’s note:
   Ord. No. 1592, § 1, adopted Feb. 13, 1986, amended Art. A of Ch. 3 in its
entirety to read as herein set forth. Prior to that amendment, Art. A, §§ 2-3-
1, 2-3-2, contained general provisions relative to boards and commissions, and
was derived from Code 1971, § 2-6.1; Ord. No. 813, § 1, adopted Oct. 12, 1978;
and a resolution of Aug. 10, 1981.
   The previous Art. C was derived from Ord. No. 945, enacted Mar. 13, 1980,
which ordinance rescinded Res. No. 439, enacted Nov. 27, 1978, which provided
for a Greenville Area Energy Management Commission. Ord. No. 98-84, § 1, June
8, 1998 repealed the article entitled “Greenville Energy Commission.” Art. C
was reestablished by Ord. No. 98-136, § 4, enacted Nov. 9, 1998.
   Ord. 21-012, dated March 8, 2021, repealed Art. D, Community Appearance
Commission in its entirety.
   Art. E, Airport zoning, see §§
9-3-1 et seq.
   Ord. No. 07-67, dated June 11, 2007, repealed Art. G, Citizens Advisory
Commission on Cable Television in its entirety. Ord. No. 08-27, dated Mar. 13,
2008, created Art. G, Environmental Advisory Commission.
   Ord. 20-057, dated October 19, 2020, repealed Art. I, Greenville Bicycle and
Pedestrian Commission in its entirety.
   Res. No. 94-37, adopted Aug. 11, 1994, did not specifically amend this Code;
hence, inclusion of §§ 1—7 as Tit. 2, Ch. 3, Art. H, §§ 2-3-81—2-3-87 was at
the discretion of the editor; Ord. No. 98-37 dated Mar. 12, 1998 repealed
former Art. H, Advisory Council on Drugs/Crime in its entirety.
Statutory reference:
   Human relations programs and committees, see G.S. 160A-492
ARTICLE A. MEETINGS OF PUBLIC BODIES
SEC. 2-3-1 NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. The Chairperson or Secretary of each public body
shall file with the City Clerk a schedule of its regular meetings, showing the
time and place of its meetings, and shall report any changes in its schedule of
regular meetings to the City Clerk at least seven days before the first meeting
held pursuant to the revised schedule.
   (B)   Special meetings. Notice of special meetings and emergency meetings
shall be given by the Chairperson or Secretary of each public body as required
by law.
   (C)   List maintained. The City Clerk shall maintain a list of those
organizations and citizens requesting notice of meetings, and shall provide a
current copy of the list to the Chairperson or Secretary of each public body.
(1971 Code, § 2-3-4) (Ord. No. 1592, § 1, passed 2-13-1986)
SEC. 2-3-2 ATTENDANCE OF MEMBERS.
   All appointive members of the various boards and commissions of the city are
expected to attend all regular meetings. Whenever a member of any board or
commission has missed three or more consecutive regular meetings or fails to
attend 75% of all regularly scheduled meetings, the Chairperson of the board or
commission shall notify the City Clerk, who will follow the process established
in the City’s Boards and Commissions Policy.
(1971 Code, § 2-3-3) (Ord. No. 1592, § 1, passed 2-13-1986)
ARTICLE B. HUMAN RELATIONS COUNCIL
SEC. 2-3-11 CREATED; PURPOSE.
   Within the authority granted by the General Statutes of the State of North
Carolina, G.S. 160A-492, a Human Relations Council is hereby created to
organize and implement human relations programs dealing with the problems of
human relations, to promote the equality of opportunity for all citizens, to
promote understanding, respect and goodwill among all its citizens, to provide
channels of communication among the races, and to encourage the youth of the
city to become better trained and qualified for gainful employment.
SEC. 2-3-12 COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT AND TERMS OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Greenville Human Relations Council shall consist of 18 members
appointed by City Council. Composition of the Greenville Human Relations
Council shall be:
      (1)   Fifteen citizens;
      (2)   One East Carolina University student;
      (3)   One Shaw University student; and
      (4)   One Pitt Community College student.
   (B)   The 15 citizens shall reside within the corporate limits of the city.
The three students shall reside within the corporate limits of the city during
the school year. The terms of the 15 citizens shall be three-year terms. The
terms of the three students shall be one-year terms. The one year terms shall
commence on October 1 of each year.
(Ord. No. 04-129, § 1, passed 10-14-2004; Ord. No. 09-31, § 1, passed 4-9-2009)
SEC. 2-3-13 EXECUTIVE SECRETARY; ADDITIONAL STAFF; EXPENSES.
   The City Manager is hereby authorized to appoint a full-time Executive
Secretary, to be known by the title of Director of Human Relations, to assist
the Human Relations Council in its deliberations, studies, recommendations and
the implementation of City Council policies. He or she shall be available to
undertake other appropriate tasks assigned him or her by the City Manager. The
Director shall serve at the pleasure of the City Manager and will be employed
under the full application of all personnel policies and regulations
established for employees of the city. The Director of Human Relations is
authorized a qualified secretary to be appointed by the City Manager under the
same circumstances as mentioned above and additional staff as approved by the
Human Relations Council and supported within the budget. Salaries, fringe
benefits and other expenses in connection with the operation of this Council
and this office may be defrayed from public money as authorized by the state
law.
ARTICLE C. MULTIMODAL TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
SEC. 2-3-21 CREATION.
   The Multimodal Transportation Commission is hereby created to advance and
encourage multimodal options for the citizens and visitors of Greenville and
provide advice and recommendations to the City Council on issues related to
public transportation, bicycle, and pedestrian related issues.
(Ord. No. 98-136, § 4, passed 11-9-1998; Ord. No. 10-04, § 1, passed 1-11-2010;
Ord. No. 20-057, § 2, passed 10-19-2020)
SEC. 2-3-22 MEMBERS; NUMBERS.
   (A)   The Multimodal Transportation Commission shall consist of seven
members, all of whom shall be citizens and residents of the city. Each member
shall be appointed by the City Council.
   (B)   The Director of the Public Works Department and the Director of the
Engineering Department shall serve as ex-officio, non-voting advisors to the
Commission.
(Ord. No. 98-136, § 4, passed 11-9-1998; Ord. No. 20-057, § 2, passed 10-19-
2020)
SEC. 2-3-23 MEMBERS; TERMS OF OFFICE.
   Members shall serve staggered terms with each term being two years. The
initial membership of the Multimodal Transportation Commission shall be
comprised of six members of the Greenville Bicycle and Pedestrian Commission
and three members of the Public Transportation & Parking Commission. The
initial membership will be staggered with four members serving two-year terms,
three members serving one-year terms, and two members serving three-year final
terms.
(Ord. No. 98-136, § 4, passed 11-9-1998; Ord. No. 20-057, § 2, passed 10-19-
2020)
SEC. 2-3-24 ORGANIZATION, MEETINGS, AND RECORDS.
   The Multimodal Transportation Commission shall meet and elect a Chair and
Vice-Chair. The term of officers shall be two years. The Commission shall keep
such records of its members' attendance and of its resolutions, discussions,
findings, and recommendations, which records shall be open to the public. All
of the Commission meetings shall be open to the public. For the purpose of
taking any official action, there shall be present a quorum of total members
minus vacant seats.
(Ord. No. 20-057, § 2, passed 10-19-2020)
SEC. 2-3-25 RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES.
   The responsibilities and duties of the Multimodal Transportation Commission
are hereby defined as follows:
   (A)   To recommend to City Council on the operation of the GREAT transit
system and develop a continuing strategy for public transit with the city and
surrounding metropolitan area;
   (B)   To recommend to City Council on the development of a multimodal
transportation system as it relates to the city;
   (C)   To study and promote the integration of bicycling and walking into
City of Greenville policies and practices;
   (D)   To study proposed changes in laws, regulations, and codes concerning
bicycle riders, pedestrians, users of personal mobility devices, and related
stakeholders and to advise the Greenville City Council with respect to proposed
changes;
   (E)   To serve as an advisory and discussion board for new bicycle lanes,
sidewalks, trails, and routes proposed by city of Greenville staff and other
groups;
   (F)   To educate and inform the public and local officials on
transportation, bicycle and pedestrian issues;
   (G)   To facilitate citizen participation in matters involving
transportation, bicycle and pedestrian questions.
(Ord. No. 98-136, § 4, passed 11-9-1998; Ord. No. 01-21, § 1, passed 2-8-2001;
Ord. No. 02-68, § 1, passed 6-13-2002; Ord. No. 10-04, § 2, passed 1-11-2010;
Ord. No. 20-057, § 2, passed 10-19-2020)
ARTICLE D. RESERVED
ARTICLE E. PITT–GREENVILLE AIRPORT AUTHORITY
SEC. 2-3-51 REGULATORY CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The following regulations and any amendments adopted by the Pitt-Greenville
Airport Authority are hereby adopted and incorporated into this Code by
reference: “P G V Standard Manual of Airport Rules and Regulations.”
(Ord. No. 1434, § 1, passed 9-13-1984)
SEC. 2-3-52 SAME; PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any violation of this article, specifically including violation of the
regulatory code adopted in this chapter, shall subject the offender to a civil
penalty of $50. Violators shall be issued a written citation which must be paid
to the office of the Collector of Revenue within 72 hours. Citations shall be
issued by the Airport Authority for violations of the P G V Rules and
Regulations, sections 3.17, 5.1 A and C, 5.2, 8.1, and 10.1 through 10.12.
Citations for all other violations shall be issued by the airport manager.
   (B)   Each day’s continuing violation shall be a separate and distinct
offense.
   (C)   Notwithstanding subsection (A) above, provisions of this article may
be enforced through equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. 1434, § 1, passed 9-13-1984; Ord. No. 23-048, § 2, passed 6-8-2023)
ARTICLE F. SHEPPARD MEMORIAL LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SEC. 2-3-60 SHEPPARD MEMORIAL LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   Creation and purpose.  Within the authority granted by the North
Carolina General Statutes, including G.S. 153A-265, the Sheppard Memorial
Library Board of Trustees is hereby appointed to govern the Sheppard Memorial
Library as the county-wide public library system for Pitt County and to support
the provision of public library services in accordance with applicable law.
   (B)   Composition and appointment of the board.  
      (1)   The membership of the Sheppard Memorial Library Board of Trustees
shall be comprised of at least nine but no more than 11 trustees, appointed as
follows:
         (a)   No more than six trustees appointed by the City Council, who
shall be residents of the city.
         (b)   No more than three trustees appointed by the Pitt County Board
of Commissioners, who shall be residents of Pitt County.
         (c)   One trustee appointed by the governing body of the Town of
Winterville, who shall be a resident of the Town of Winterville.
         (d)   One trustee appointed by the governing body of the Town of
Bethel, who shall be a resident of the Town of Bethel.
      (2)   All trustee appointments made to the Board shall also be in
compliance with the Board and Commission Policy for the City of Greenville. In
addition to the aforementioned trustees, both the City Council and the Pitt
County Board of Commissioners may in their discretion each appoint one of their
own members as an ex-officio non-voting liaison to the Board to serve in an
advisory capacity.
   (C)   Length of term. A trustee shall not be appointed by the same governing
body for more than two consecutive three-year terms.
   (D)   Manner of filling vacancies. When an appointment is made to fill an
unexpired term, the appointee will remain eligible to be appointed to serve up
to two consecutive three-year terms.
   (E)   Compensation and reimbursement.  All trustees shall serve without
compensation, except that they may be reimbursed for actual expenses incident
to the performance of their duties within the limits of any fund available to
the Board.
   (F)   Removal of a trustee. The City Council, Pitt County Board of
Commissioners, and the governing bodies of the Town of Winterville and the Town
of Bethel may remove any of their respective appointed trustees at any time for
incapacity, unfitness, misconduct, or neglect of duty.
   (G)   Powers and duties of the Board. In addition to those duties
established in the bylaws for the Sheppard Memorial Library Board of Trustees,
the Board shall elect a chairman and may elect other officers. The Board also
has the following powers:
      (1)   To formulate and adopt programs, policies, and regulations for the
government of the library.
      (2)   To make recommendations to the governing bodies involved in the
library system concerning the construction and improvement of buildings and
other structures for the library system.
      (3)   To supervise and care for the facilities of the library system.
      (4)   To appoint a director of library services, who shall appoint other
employees of the library system.
      (5)   To establish a schedule of fines and charges for late return of,
failure to return, damage to, and loss of library materials, and to take other
measures to protect and regulate the use of such materials.
      (6)   To participate in preparing the annual budget of the library
system.
      (7)   To extend the privileges and use of the library system to
nonresidents of the city, Pitt County, the Town of Winterville, or the Town of
Bethel on any terms or conditions the Board may prescribe.
      (8)   To otherwise advise the Pitt County Board of Commissioners, the
City Council, and the governing bodies of the Town of Winterville and the Town
of Bethel on library matters.
     (H)   Annual report. The Board shall also make an annual report on the
operations of the library to the City Council and may also make an annual
report on the operations of the library to the Pitt County Board of
Commissioners and the governing bodies of the Town of Winterville and the Town
of Bethel and shall make an annual report to the Department of Natural and
Cultural Resources as required by G.S. 125-5.
(Ord. No. 23-034, § 2, passed 5-16-2023)
SEC. 2-3-61 RETURN OF LIBRARY MATERIALS.
   (A)   All library materials borrowed or checked out from the Sheppard
Memorial Library, or any branch or bookmobile operated by the library, must be
returned according to the terms and conditions upon which the material is
checked out.
   (B)   Any person who checks out, borrows, receives or becomes responsible
for any library materials belonging to Sheppard Memorial Library or any of its
branches and who fails to return the materials to the library or branch for a
period of 15 days after written notice from the library to the last given
address of the borrower, when such material is overdue at the time the written
notice is mailed, shall be subject to a civil penalty as specified in section
2-3-62. This civil penalty shall be in addition to any fines or fees required
under library rules and regulations.
   (C)   Any person unable to return overdue library materials because the
materials have been lost or otherwise unaccountable for shall pay to the
library the cost of replacing the materials, together with all overdue fines.
Failure to pay replacement costs and fines shall subject the offender to a
civil penalty as stated in section
2-3-62.
   (D)   When library materials are checked out or loaned to a minor, the
custodial parent or parents, guardian or person having custody of the person of
the minor shall be jointly liable with the minor for any fines, fees, charges
or replacement costs incurred by the minor for failure to return library
materials.
(Ord. No. 1435, § 1, passed 9-13-1984)
  SEC. 2-3-62 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any violation of this article shall subject the offender to a civil
penalty of $50. Violators shall be issued a written citation which must be paid
to the office of the Collector of Revenue within 72 hours. Citations may be
issued by the Director of Sheppard Memorial Library.
   (B)   Notwithstanding subsection (A) above, provisions of this article may
be enforced through equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. 1435, § 1, passed 9-13-1984; Ord. No. 23-048, § 3, passed 6-8-2023)
ARTICLE G. ENVIRONMENTAL ADVISORY COMMISSION
SEC. 2-3-70 CREATED.
   There is hereby created the Environmental Advisory Commission.
(Ord. No. 08-27, passed 3-13-2008)
SEC. 2-3-71 MEMBERSHIP AND VACANCIES.
   (A)   The Environmental Advisory Commission shall consist of seven members,
all of whom shall be residents of the city. Members shall serve staggered terms
with each term being three years. Membership shall be composed of the
following:
      (1)   A lawyer or other person with knowledge of environmental
regulations and environmental safety practices;
      (2)   A building contractor, land developer, or someone familiar with
construction techniques;
      (3)   A member of a local environmental group;
      (4)   An educator of the natural or physical sciences or physician;
      (5)   A professional engineer;
      (6)   An at-large member from the Greenville community; and
      (7)   An at-large member from the Greenville community with skills and
interest in environmental health, safety and/or medicine.
   (B)   The Mayor or a member of City Council shall be designated as an ex
officio, nonvoting member of the Commission.
   (C)   Vacancies occurring for reasons other than the expiration of terms
shall be filled as they occur for the remaining period of the unexpired term.
(Ord. No. 08-27, passed 3-13-2008)
SEC. 2-3-72 RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES.
   The Environmental Advisory Commission shall be advisory to the City Council.
It will recommend to the City Council matters of city-wide environmental
concern and shall serve as technical advisors to the City Council on
environmental matters.
(Ord. No. 08-27, passed 3-13-2008)
SEC. 2-3-73 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Environmental Advisory Commission shall adopt bylaws and elect
officers from its membership.
   (B)   The Director ofEngineering or designee shall serve as Executive
Secretary of the Commission and shall provide technical assistance as
necessary.
(Ord. No. 08-27, § 1, passed 3-13-2008; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
ARTICLE H. NEIGHBORHOOD ADVISORY BOARD
SEC. 2-3-81 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Board Member.  An individual elected by the Liaison Members of the Neighborhood
Advisory Board to attend meetings of the Neighborhood Advisory Board,
participate in actions of the Neighborhood Advisory Board, and bring to the
attention of elected officials and city staff the concerns of the neighborhood
associations during the meetings of the Neighborhood Advisory Board.
(Ord. No. 09-88, § 1, passed 10-8-2009)
Liaison Member. An individual appointed by a neighborhood association to
represent the association in electing Board Members to the Neighborhood
Advisory Board and offering feedback to the Board Members of the Neighborhood
Advisory Board.
Neighborhood. An organized residential area within the corporate limits of the
City of Greenville.
Neighborhood association. An organized group of residents or a homeowners
association, established for the property owners in accordance with North
Carolina law, within a specific neighborhood within the corporate limits of the
city and that operates under a formal association bylaws, holds at least two
board or membership meetings a year, has elected officers, maintains records of
meetings, maintains an association membership roster, and has placed on file
with the Neighborhood Liaison/Ombudsman a current set of bylaws and amendments
and a list of current officers. A neighborhood association, other than a
homeowners association, is required to be inclusive in its membership as herein
defined. A neighborhood association is inclusive in its membership when it (1)
allows all residents living in the neighborhood, including residents who are
property owners and residents who are renters, to participate in the
neighborhood association as full and equal members commencing immediately when
the resident starts to reside in the neighborhood and (2) does not have any
different standards for residents who are property owners and residents who are
renters in eligibility requirements, voting rights, dues levels, or any other
matter relating to membership. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a neighborhood
association may, without adversely impacting its status of being inclusive in
its membership, (1) limit membership to persons who are 18 years or older, (2)
limit the right of members to vote to one person or another number of persons
for each dwelling unit, and/or (3) require the payment of dues, fees, and other
charges by all members provided that the required total payment for a member
shall be no more than $50 annually.
(Ord. No. 08-53, passed 4-8-2008; Ord. No. 13-046, § 1, passed 9-12-2013)
SEC. 2-3-82 CREATION.
   There is hereby created the Neighborhood Advisory Board.
(Ord. No. 08-53, passed 4-8-2008)
SEC. 2-3-83 COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The Neighborhood Advisory Board shall consist of ten regular Board
Members, with two regular Board Members being elected from each of the five
districts from which Council Members are elected, and five alternate Board
Members, with one alternate Board Member being elected from each of the five
districts from which Council Members are elected.
   (B)   Regular Board Members of the Neighborhood Advisory Board shall serve
staggered terms with each term being two years. The Neighborhood Advisory Board
shall designate which initial regular Board Member from each of the five
districts from which Council Members are elected shall have an initial term of
one year and which initial regular Board Member from each of the five districts
from which Council Members are elected shall have an initial term of two years
to the end that thereafter the terms of the regular Board Members from the same
district shall not expire at the same time. Alternate Board Members of the
Neighborhood Advisory Board shall serve terms of two years.
   (C)   Each neighborhood association shall appoint a Liaison Member to the
Neighborhood Advisory Board and an alternate Liaison Member to the Neighborhood
Advisory Board. The Liaison Member and the alternate Liaison Member shall serve
at the pleasure of the neighborhood association. The alternate Liaison Member,
while attending a meeting of the Liaison Members or of the Neighborhood
Advisory Board in the absence of the Liaison Member from the same neighborhood
association, may serve as the Liaison Member and shall have and may exercise
the powers of the Liaison Member.
   (D)   The Liaison Members of the Neighborhood Advisory Board shall elect, at
a meeting of the Liaison Members established by the Neighborhood Advisory Board
for that purpose, the regular Board Members and alternate Board Members of the
Neighborhood Advisory Board. Elections shall be conducted annually. With the
regular Board Members having staggered terms, one regular Board Member from
each of the five districts from which Council Members are elected will be
elected annually. One alternate Board Member from each of the five districts
from which Council Members are elected will be elected biannually. The Liaison
Members of the Neighborhood Advisory Board who represent neighborhood
associations of neighborhoods located primarily within a district from which a
Council Member is elected shall only be eligible to vote for Board Members for
the district. The Board Members of the Neighborhood Advisory Board elected from
a district from which a Council Member is elected must be a Liaison Member for
a neighborhood association of a neighborhood located primarily within the
district. For the purpose of determining eligibility to vote and to serve as a
Board Member, a neighborhood is located primarily within the district if the
majority of the residences in the neighborhood served by the neighborhood
association are located within said district.
   (E)   Each alternate Board Member of the Neighborhood Advisory Board, while
attending any meeting of the Neighborhood Advisory Board and serving in the
absence of a regular Board Member, shall have and may exercise all powers and
duties of a regular Board Member of the Neighborhood Advisory Board. An
alternate Board Member of the Neighborhood Advisory Board may serve only for a
regular Board Member of the Neighborhood Advisory Board elected from the same
district.
   (F)   The Neighborhood Liaison/Ombudsman shall serve as an ex-officio,
nonvoting member of the Neighborhood Advisory Board.
   (G)   The Liaison Members of the Neighborhood Advisory Board shall consist
of the Liaison Members appointed by each neighborhood association. In addition
to electing the Board Members of the Neighborhood Advisory Board in accordance
with the provisions of subsection (D) above, the Liaison Members shall offer
feedback to the Board Members of the Neighborhood Advisory Board at least twice
each year at a meeting of the Neighborhood Advisory Board.
(Ord. No. 08-53, passed 4-8-2008; Ord. No. 09-88, § 2, passed 10-8-2009)
SEC. 2-3-84 MEETINGS; OFFICERS; BYLAWS; RECORDS.
   The Neighborhood Advisory Board shall establish a schedule of regular
monthly meetings and shall meet as necessary to accomplish its mission
statement approved by City Council. At least twice each year, the Neighborhood
Advisory Board shall meet with the Liaison Members of the Neighborhood Advisory
Board to receive feedback from the Liaison Members. All of the meetings of the
Neighborhood Advisory Board shall be public meetings. The Neighborhood Advisory
Board will elect from its Board Members a Chair and a Vice-Chair. The
Neighborhood Liaison/Ombudsmen or designee shall serve as Secretary. The
Secretary shall keep the records of who is in attendance and minutes of the
meetings, resolutions, discussions, findings and recommendations and these
records shall be public records. The Neighborhood Advisory Board shall adopt
bylaws, not inconsistent with state law or this article, for the transaction of
business.
(Ord. No. 08-53, passed 4-8-2008)
SEC. 2-3-85 QUORUM.
   (A)   In order for the Liaison Members of the Neighborhood Advisory Board to
elect Board Members of the Neighborhood Advisory Board for a district, at least
60% of the Liaison Members of the neighborhood associations from that district
shall be present at a meeting of the Liaison Members of the Neighborhood
Advisory Board.
(Ord. No. 09-88, § 3, passed 10-8-2009)
   (B)   In order for the Neighborhood Advisory Board to take action, a
majority of the Board Members of the Neighborhood Advisory Board shall be
present.
(Ord. No. 08-53, passed 4-8-2008)
SEC. 2-3-86 DECISIONS.
   All decisions of the Neighborhood Advisory Board, other than the election of
Board Members and the approval of amendments to the by laws for the transaction
of business of the Neighborhood Advisory Board, shall be by vote of a majority
of those Board Members of the Neighborhood Advisory Board present at a meeting
of the Neighborhood Advisory Board with a quorum being present. The election of
Board Members of the Neighborhood Advisory Board shall be by vote of a majority
of the Liaison Members of the Neighborhood Advisory Board eligible to vote for
the Board Member, in accordance with the provisions of section
2-3-83(D), at a meeting of the Liaison Members of the Neighborhood Advisory
Board with a quorum being present. The approval of an amendment to the by-laws
for the transaction of business of the Neighborhood Advisory Board shall be by
the number of votes required to approve such an amendment as stated in the by-
laws for the transaction of business of the Neighborhood Advisory Board.
(Ord. No. 08-53, passed 4-8-2008; Ord. No. 09-88, § 4, passed 10-8-2009)
SEC. 2-3-87 PURPOSE.
   The Neighborhood Advisory Board shall serve as a liaison between the
neighborhoods and the City of Greenville. The Neighborhood Advisory Board shall
develop its mission statement and submit it for approval to City Council with
any amendments deemed appropriate by City Council. The mission statement may
include but is not limited to the following purposes:
   (A)   To serve as a liaison between the neighborhoods and the City of
Greenville over issues of common interest;
   (B)   To serve as an advocate for programs, ideas and methods to promote
working relationships between the neighborhoods and with the City of
Greenville;
   (C)   To disseminate information to the neighborhoods and the City of
Greenville with regard to issues of healthy, strong and vibrant neighborhoods;
   (D)   To assist and promote neighborhood education efforts concerning ways
to develop, revitalize and maintain healthy, strong and vibrant neighborhoods;
   (E)   To increase citizen participation in neighborhood revitalization and
development; and
   (F)   To provide information to new neighborhood associations and encourage
formation of new neighborhood associations.
(Ord. No. 08-53, § 1, passed 5-8-2008)
TITLE 3
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
   
Chapter 1.   General Provisions
   
Chapter 2.   Revenue and Taxation
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Article A. Purchases and Contracts
   
3-1-1   Payment of money from City Treasury; order of City Council
   
3-1-2   Procedure for disbursement
   
3-1-3   Warrants to state purpose; signing of warrants
   
3-1-4   Contracts for construction and repair work; purchases of supplies
   
3-1-5   Contracts with employees prohibited
   
3-1-6   Sale of surplus property
   
3-1-7   Sale to employees prohibited except at public auction
Article B. Infrastructure Agreements
   
3-1-11   Municipal infrastructure reimbursement agreements
   
3-1-12   Intersection and roadway improvements contracts
   
3-1-13   Public enterprise improvements contracts
Article C. Deputy City Finance Officer for Greenville Utilities Commission
   
3-1-21   Position created; appointment; termination; duties generally
   
3-1-22   Approval of accounting and control system changes
   
3-1-23   Monthly statements to City Finance Officer and City Council
   
3-1-24   Daily reports of cash receipts
   
3-1-25   Compliance with state laws; investment of funds; limitation of duties;
bond
   
3-1-26   Recording of bids received
Editor’s note:
   At the direction of the city, the provisions of former Art. B,
Infrastructure Agreements, §
3-1-11, added by Ord. No. 06-02, adopted Jan. 12, 2006, were deleted, such
provisions pertaining to the establishment and operation of the Capital Reserve
Fund.
   At the direction of the city, the provisions of former Art. C, Deputy City
Finance Officer for Greenville Utilities Commission, §§
3-1-21 through
3-1-26, were deleted.
ARTICLE A. PURCHASES AND CONTRACTS
SEC. 3-1-1 PAYMENT OF MONEY FROM CITY TREASURY; ORDER OF CITY COUNCIL.
   No money shall be paid out of the City Treasury unless by order of the City
Council.
SEC. 3-1-2 PROCEDURE FOR DISBURSEMENT.
   (A)   In accordance with the Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act,
no bill or claim against the city may be paid unless it has been approved by
the officer or employee responsible for the function or agency to which the
expense is charged. No check or draft of the city shall be valid unless it
bears on its face the certificate of the Finance Officer as follows:
   “This disbursement has been approved as required by the Local Government
Budget and Fiscal Control Act.”
   (B)   No contract, agreement or purchase order shall be valid unless it
bears the Finance Officer’s certificate as follows:
   “This instrument has been pre-audited in the manner required by the Local
Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act.”
Statutory reference:
Pre-audit of disbursements required, see G.S. 159-28
SEC. 3-1-3 WARRANTS TO STATE PURPOSE; SIGNING OF WARRANTS.
   All warrants for the payment of money from the City Treasury shall state
upon the face thereof the nature of the claim for which drawn and shall be
signed by the City Manager and the City Finance Officer. In the absence of or
disability of either or both the City Manager or City Finance Officer, the
person or persons designated by the City Council to act in his, her or their
stead shall sign warrants upon the City Treasury.
Statutory reference:
Dual signatures required on checks, see G.S. 159-25
SEC. 3-1-4 CONTRACTS FOR CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR WORK; PURCHASES OF SUPPLIES.
   (A)   The City Manager shall prepare rules and regulations for the purchase
of supplies, materials, apparatus, and equipment and for construction and
repair projects which are to be done for the city under contract. All purchases
by the city shall be made in conformance with the city’s rules and regulations
and shall be consistent with the North Carolina General Statutes.
   (B)   Rules and regulations made pursuant to subsection (A) of this section,
when approved by resolution of the City Council and promulgated by the City
Manager, shall have the force and effect of an ordinance. When such rules and
regulations are approved by the City Council, a copy shall be placed on file in
the office of the City Clerk. The City Manager may make any revision of or
amendment to the rules and regulations which may be necessary and not
inconsistent with the General Statutes of North Carolina. All changes and
amendments shall be filed with the City Clerk and a copy provided to each city
department. These changes shall become effective when filed and when notice is
given to city departments.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of each city officer entering into a contract
pursuant to the rules and regulations of the City Manager to keep a record of
all bids submitted, and the record shall be subject to public inspection during
all regular office hours.
(Ord. No. 1057, passed 1-8-1981)
Statutory reference:
   Informal bids, see G.S. 143-131
   Procedure for letting public contracts, formal bids, see G.S. 143-129
SEC. 3-1-5 CONTRACTS WITH EMPLOYEES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The city shall not accept a negotiated bid, nor contract with, any
city employee for the performance of services, or for the purchase of
apparatus, supplies or materials, other than the duly authorized salary or
compensation for the services to the city for which the employee was hired.
This prohibition shall apply to any interest which shall yield, directly or
indirectly, a monetary or other material benefit to the employee. This
prohibition shall apply to the employees of all city departments, agencies,
boards or commissions.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the prohibition
against contracting with any city employee for the performance of services
shall not be applied against any employee performing services for the
Recreation and Parks Department in the capacity of referee or umpire for
athletic contests, or in the capacity of an instructor for any program offered
to the public, if that employee had performed the service at any time prior to
July 1, 1984.
(Ord. No. 1291, § 1, passed 7-14-1983; Ord. No. 1451, § 1, passed 11-8-1984;
Ord. No. 1932, § 1, passed 12-8-1988)
Editor’s note:
   Section 1 of Ord. No. 1451, enacted Nov. 11, 1984, amended Ord. No. 1291 by
adding thereto a new § 4. Inasmuch as § 1 of Ord. No. 1291 was already codified
herein as §
3-1-5, the new § 4 of Ord. No. 1291 was added hereto as §
3-1-5(B) and the existing provisions were designated as §
3-1-5(A), at the discretion of the editor.
SEC. 3-1-6 SALE OF SURPLUS PROPERTY.
   (A)   The purchasing manager is authorized to declare as surplus personal
property owned by the City of Greenville and valued at less than $30,000, to
set its fair market value, to sell it or exchange it for a comparable item, and
to convey title to the property on behalf of the city.
   (B)   Upon declaring as surplus personal property owned by the city and
setting its fair market value, the purchasing manager may initiate proceedings
for the sale or exchange of property and may convey title to the property for
the city. The purchasing manager is not required to publish notice and the sale
or exchange may be either public or private.
   (C)   The purchasing manager shall keep a record of all property sold under
this section and that record shall generally describe the property sold or
exchanged, to whom it was sold or with whom exchanged, and the amount of money
or other consideration received for each sale or exchange.
(Ord. No. 1391, § 1, passed 4-12-1984; Ord. No. 97-100, § 1, passed 9-11-1997;
Ord. No. 05-109, § 1, passed 9-8-2005)
SEC. 3-1-7 SALE TO EMPLOYEES PROHIBITED EXCEPT AT PUBLIC AUCTION.
   The purchasing manager shall not sell surplus city property to, or exchange
for a comparable item with, employees of city departments, agencies, boards or
commissions, except at public auction or electronic auction. This prohibition
shall apply to any interest which shall yield, directly or indirectly, a
monetary or other material benefit to the employee.
(Ord. No. 1391, § 1, passed 4-12-1984; Ord. No. 1932, §§ 2, 3, passed 12-8-
1988; Ord. No. 97-100, § 1, passed 9-11-1997)
ARTICLE B. INFRASTRUCTURE AGREEMENTS
SEC. 3-1-11 MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   In accordance with the provisions of G.S. 160A-499, the city may enter
into reimbursement agreements with private developers and property owners for
the design and construction of municipal infrastructure that is included on the
city’s capital improvement plan and serves the developer or property owner. For
the purpose of this section, municipal infrastructure includes, without
limitation, water mains, sanitary sewer lines, lift stations, stormwater lines,
streets, curb and gutter, sidewalks, traffic control devices and other
associated facilities.
   (B)   The City Manager, or designee, is authorized to negotiate municipal
infrastructure reimbursement agreements with private developers and property
owners pursuant to this section. In negotiating such agreements, the City
Manager, or designee, shall determine that:
      (1)   The cost to the city will not exceed the estimated cost of
providing for the municipal infrastructure through a public contract let
pursuant to the provisions of G.S. Chapter 143, Article 8; or
      (2)   The coordination of separately constructed municipal infrastructure
with the associated private development would be impracticable.
   (C)   A municipal infrastructure reimbursement agreement with a developer or
property owner shall be approved by City Council.
   (D)   A municipal infrastructure reimbursement agreement shall not be
subject to G.S. Chapter 143, Article 8, except that a developer or property
owner who is party to a municipal infrastructure reimbursement agreement shall
solicit bids in accordance with G.S. Chapter 143, Article 8 when awarding
contracts for work that would have required competitive bidding if the contract
had been awarded by the city.
SEC. 3-1-12 INTERSECTION AND ROADWAY IMPROVEMENTS CONTRACTS.
   (A)   In accordance with the provisions of G.S. 160A-309, the city may enter
into a contract with a developer or property owner, or with a private party who
is under contract with the developer or property owner, for public intersection
or roadway improvements that are adjacent or ancillary to a private land
development project.
   (B)   The City Manager, or designee, is authorized to negotiate intersection
and roadway improvements contracts with private developers and property owners,
and with private parties who are under contract with developers or property
owners, pursuant to this section. In negotiating such contracts, the City
Manager, or designee, shall determine that:
      (1)   The cost to the city will not exceed the estimated cost of
providing for the public intersection and roadway improvements through a public
contract let pursuant to the provisions of G.S. Chapter 143, Article 8; or
      (2)   The coordination of separately constructed public intersection or
roadway improvements and the adjacent or ancillary private land development
improvements would be impracticable.
   (C)   An intersection and roadway improvements contract with a developer,
property owner, or private party who is under contract with the developer or
property owner, shall be approved by City Council.
   (D)   An intersection and roadway improvements contract is not subject to
G.S. Chapter 143, Article 8 if the public cost will not exceed $250,000 and the
city determines that:
      (1)   The public cost will not exceed the estimated cost of providing for
those public intersection or roadway improvements through either eligible force
account qualified labor or through a public contract let pursuant to G.S.
Chapter 143, Article 8; or
      (2)   The coordination of separately constructed public intersection or
roadway improvements and the adjacent or ancillary private land development
improvements would be impracticable.
SEC. 3-1-13 PUBLIC ENTERPRISE IMPROVEMENTS CONTRACTS.
   (A)   In accordance with the provisions of G.S. 160A-320, the city may enter
into a contract with a developer or property owner, or with a private party who
is under contract with the developer or property owner, for public enterprise
improvements that are adjacent or ancillary to a private land development
project. Such a contract shall allow the city to reimburse the private party
for costs associated with the design and construction of improvements that are
in addition to those required by the city’s land development regulations. The
improvements may be constructed on property owned or acquired by the private
party or on property owned or acquired by the city. The private party may
assist the city in obtaining easements in favor of the city from private
property owners on those properties that will be involved in or affected by the
project. The contract between the city and the private party may be entered
into before the acquisition of any real property necessary to the project. For
the purpose of this section, public enterprise shall be as defined in G.S.
160A-311.
   (B)   The City Manager, or designee, is authorized to negotiate public
enterprise improvements contracts with private developers and property owners,
or with private parties who are under contract with developers or property
owners, pursuant to this section. In negotiating such agreements, the City
Manager, or designee, shall determine that:
      (1)   The cost to the city will not exceed the estimated cost of
providing for the public enterprise improvements through a public contract let
pursuant to the provisions of G.S. Chapter 143, Article 8; or
      (2)   The coordination of separately constructed public enterprise
improvements with the adjacent or ancillary private land development
improvements would be impracticable.
   (C)   A public enterprise improvements contract with a developer or property
owner, or with a private party who is under contract with the developer or
property owner, shall be approved by City Council.
   (D)   A public enterprise improvements contract is not subject to G.S.
Chapter 143, Article 8 if the public cost will not exceed $250,000 and the city
determines that:
      (1)   The public cost will not exceed the estimated cost of providing for
those improvements through either eligible force account qualified labor or
through a public contract let pursuant to G.S. Chapter 143, Article 8; or
      (2)   The coordination of separately constructed public enterprise
improvements with the adjacent or ancillary private development improvements
would be impracticable.
ARTICLE C. DEPUTY CITY FINANCE OFFICER FOR GREENVILLE UTILITIES COMMISSION
SEC. 3-1-21 POSITION CREATED; APPOINTMENT; TERMINATION; DUTIES GENERALLY.
   There is hereby created the position of Deputy City Finance Officer for
Greenville Utilities Commission’s fiscal transactions. This person shall be a
senior fiscal executive of the Greenville Utilities Commission. This person
shall be designated Deputy Finance Officer of the City of Greenville for
Greenville Utilities Commission. This appointment shall be made by the City
Manager by mutual agreement with the director of the Greenville Utilities
Commission and the services of this person as deputy finance officer of the
city shall be terminated whenever the City Manager and the Director of the
Greenville Utilities Commission so desire.
SEC. 3-1-22 APPROVAL OF ACCOUNTING AND CONTROL SYSTEM CHANGES.
   All changes in the accounting and internal control system of the Greenville
Utilities Commission must be specifically approved by the City Finance Officer.
SEC. 3-1-23 MONTHLY STATEMENTS TO CITY FINANCE OFFICER AND CITY COUNCIL.
   The Deputy City Finance Officer for the Greenville Utilities Commission will
furnish monthly statements of operations and financial position to the City
Finance Officer and City Council no later than the twentieth day of the month
next following the month concluded.
SEC. 3-1-24 DAILY REPORTS OF CASH RECEIPTS.
   The Deputy City Finance Officer for the Greenville Utilities Commission will
furnish to the City Finance Officer a daily report of cash receipts and
disbursements in a manner and form agreeable to the City Finance Officer, such
that both the city funds and the Greenville Utilities Commission funds may
jointly or separately be maintained in sound investment programs.
SEC. 3-1-25 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAWS; INVESTMENT OF FUNDS; LIMITATION OF
DUTIES; BOND.
   The Deputy City Finance Officer for the Greenville Utilities Commission
shall be charged with the responsibility for the day to day operation of the
accounting system, signing all checks, purchase orders and contracts in strict
compliance with G.S. 159-28. In all cases of doubt as to compliance with G.S.
159-28, the decision of the City Finance Officer shall control. The Deputy City
Finance Officer is authorized to invest Greenville Utilities Commission funds
in accordance with an investment program approved by the City Finance Officer.
The fiscal control responsibility of the Deputy City Finance Officer for the
Greenville Utilities Commission shall be limited to the Greenville Utilities
Commission’s fiscal transactions. The Deputy City Finance Officer shall be
bonded to the city for the maximum amount authorized by law.
SEC. 3-1-26 RECORDING OF BIDS RECEIVED.
   Although approval of contracts should conform to the Greenville Utilities
Commission’s enabling statutes, all bids received pursuant to G.S. Chapter 143,
Article 8 shall be recorded in the minutes of both the City Council and the
minutes of the Greenville Utilities Commission.
Cross reference:
   Greenville Utilities Commission, related local laws, §§
4-1 et seq.
CHAPTER 2: REVENUE AND TAXATION
Section
Article A. Administration
   
3-2-1   City Collector of Revenue for collections other than property taxes, to
turn over collections each day
Article B. Property Tax
   
3-2-11   Annual levy
   
3-2-12   When annual taxes payable; prepayment discount; nonpayment penalty
interest
   
3-2-13   Charges for cost of advertising for lien sales for delinquent taxes
Article C. Business and Occupation Taxes
   
3-2-21   Definitions
   
3-2-22   License tax levied
   
3-2-23   Collector of Revenue other than property tax; duties
   
3-2-24   License; due date
   
3-2-25   Application; false statement thereon
   
3-2-26   Computation of tax based on gross receipts
   
3-2-27   Procedures for refusal or revocation of a license
   
3-2-28   Certain licenses issued by City Council
   
3-2-29   Public hearing; judicial review
   
3-2-30   Notice of deficiency
   
3-2-31   Proration of tax; seasonal businesses
   
3-2-32   Multiple businesses
   
3-2-33   Separate places of business
   
3-2-34   Display of license
   
3-2-35   Change in place of business
   
3-2-36   No abatement of tax
   
3-2-37   Effect of license
   
3-2-38   Exemptions
   
3-2-39   Providing notice to an applicant or licensee
   
3-2-40   Record of conferences
   
3-2-41   Qualification of applicant
   
3-2-42   Unlawful to conduct business without a license
   
3-2-43   Collection of unpaid tax
   
3-2-44   Schedule of license taxes
Article D. Rental Vehicle Tax
   
3-2-51   Definitions
   
3-2-52   Levy of tax
   
3-2-53   Collection of the tax
   
3-2-54   Report and payment of tax
   
3-2-55   Taxpayer to keep records
   
3-2-56   Tax Collector to provide forms
   
3-2-57   Situs
   
3-2-58   Penalties and remedies
   
3-2-59   Administration
Statutory reference:
   General powers to impose, administer and collect taxes, see G.S. 160A-206
   Levy of privilege license taxes authorized, see G.S. 160A-211
ARTICLE A. ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 3-2-1 CITY COLLECTOR OF REVENUE FOR COLLECTIONS OTHER THAN PROPERTY TAXES,
TO TURN OVER COLLECTIONS EACH DAY.
   The Collector of Revenue or designee shall make a daily turnover to the City
Finance Officer of all collections and money made and received on the previous
day.
ARTICLE B. PROPERTY TAX
SEC. 3-2-11 ANNUAL LEVY.
   The annual taxes of the city shall be levied by the City Council in
accordance with the provisions of the laws of this state.
Statutory reference:
   Levy of property taxes, see G.S. 105-347 and 160A-209
SEC. 3-2-12 WHEN ANNUAL TAXES PAYABLE; PREPAYMENT DISCOUNT; NONPAYMENT PENALTY
INTEREST.
   (A)   All taxes levied by the city under the provisions of G.S. Chapter 105,
Article 25 shall be due and payable on September 1 of the fiscal year for which
the taxes are levied. As required under subsection (B), G.S. 105-360, discounts
for prepayment of taxes shall be granted in the amount of 2% for payments
received during the month of August preceding September 1, the due date for
payment of taxes.
   (B)   This section hereby establishes interest for nonpayment of taxes and
discounts for prepayment as follows:
      (1)   August, 2% discount.
      (2)   September, October, November and December and January 1 to 5, par
or face amount.
      (3)   January 6 to 31, 2% penalty.
      (4)   February and each month thereafter, 2% plus 0.75% per month or
fraction thereof until the taxes and penalty plus interest have been paid.
SEC. 3-2-13 CHARGES FOR COST OF ADVERTISING FOR LIEN SALES FOR DELINQUENT
TAXES.
   The charge to be levied against the property to cover the cost of
advertising of delinquent taxes for lien sale shall be $2 per parcel sold at
lien sale.
ARTICLE C. BUSINESS AND OCCUPATION TAXES
SEC. 3-2-21 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, whenever they are used in this article, shall be deemed
to have the following meanings:
   Business. Any trade, occupation, profession, business, franchise or calling
of any kind, subject by the provisions of this article to a license tax.
   Engaged (or engaging) in business within this city. A person is “engaged in
business within the city” when he or she engages in business activity of any
type, either as owner or operator of a business physically located within the
City of Greenville.
   Person. Includes any individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary,
corporation, association, partnership, company, firm or other legal entity or
agent thereof.
   Seasonal in nature. A business is “seasonal in nature” when it is taxed by
this article on an annual basis, but is operated within the city for less than
six months of the year.
(Ord. No. 963, passed 5-8-1980; Ord. No. 14-035, passed 6-9-2014)
SEC. 3-2-22 LICENSE TAX LEVIED.
   A license tax is hereby levied on the privilege of engaging in every
business within this city which is listed in the schedule of taxes contained in
section
3-2-44 of this article. Any person so engaged in business shall be responsible
for making certain that the applicable license tax is paid.
(Ord. No. 963, passed 5-8-1980)
SEC. 3-2-23 COLLECTOR OF REVENUE OTHER THAN PROPERTY TAX; DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Collector of Revenue is hereby designated as the proper city
official to collect license taxes and to issue privilege licenses.
   (B)   The Collector of Revenue shall make any investigation necessary to
determine the tax liability of persons engaged in business within the city. If
necessary, the Collector of Revenue is authorized to enter upon the premises of
any such business during normal business hours for the purpose of determining
whether this article has been complied with.
(Ord. No. 963, passed 5-8-1980)
SEC. 3-2-24 LICENSE; DUE DATE.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided in the schedule of taxes in section
3-2-44, each privilege license issued shall cover the 12-month period beginning
July 1 of each calendar year and ending June 30 of the subsequent calendar
year.
   (B)   The privilege license tax is due on July 1 of each year. If, however,
a person begins a business after July 1, the tax for that year must be paid
before the business is begun.
(Ord. No. 963, passed 5-8-1980)
Editor’s note:
   State law authorizes the use of an alternate privilege license tax year,
June 1 through May 31. If a municipality so desires, this license year can be
substituted for the normal fiscal year.
SEC. 3-2-25 APPLICATION; FALSE STATEMENT THEREON.
   (A)   Every person desiring to obtain a license for the privilege of
engaging in a business within this city shall make application to the city. The
application, to be made on a form provided by the Collector of Revenue, shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   Name and nature of the business for which the license is sought;
      (2)   The address where the business is conducted, and a mailing address
for the business, if different;
      (3)   The name and address of the person filling out the application, and
his or her relationship to the business;
      (4)   The gross receipts of the business for the most recently completed
tax year, if applicable; and
      (5)   Any other information which the Collector of Revenue determines to
be necessary.
   (B)   Any person who willfully makes a false statement on a license
application shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
fined not more than $50, or imprisoned for not less than 30 days.
(Ord. No. 963, passed 5-8-1980)
SEC. 3-2-26 COMPUTATION OF TAX BASED ON GROSS RECEIPTS.
   (A)   Whenever this article levies a privilege license tax computed on the
basis of gross receipts, “gross receipts” means the amount reported as gross
receipts on a business’s state income tax return or on the federal income tax
return filed with the state income tax return if the state return does not
separately state gross receipts, for the most recently completed tax year.
   (B)   If a business has not been in operation long enough for the
information required in subsection (A) of this section to be available, the
Collector of Revenue shall estimate gross receipts for the business, based on
gross receipts of comparable businesses or any other information that the
Collector considers useful.
(Ord. No. 963, passed 5-8-1980)
SEC. 3-2-27 PROCEDURES FOR REFUSAL OR REVOCATION OF A LICENSE.
   (A)   The Collector of Revenue shall refuse to issue a license or shall
revoke a license for either of the following reasons:
      (1)   The applicant misrepresents a fact relevant to the amount of tax
due or his or her qualifications for a license; or
      (2)   The applicant refuses to provide information necessary to compute
the amount of tax due.
   (B)   (1)   Before the Collector of Revenue may revoke a license, he or she
shall give the licensee written notice of the grounds for revocation. The
licensee may within ten days after the day on which notice is served request in
writing a conference with the Collector of Revenue. The request shall specify
the reasons why the license should not be revoked. The Collector of Revenue
shall arrange the conference within a reasonable time.
      (2)   If the licensee fails to request a conference within ten days after
the day on which notice is served, the Collector of Revenue shall revoke the
license. If the licensee requests a conference, the Collector of Revenue may
not revoke the license until after the conference.
      (3)   If the Collector of Revenue revokes a license, the former licensee
may apply for a new license at any time thereafter. If the reason for which the
license was revoked no longer exists, and if no other reason exists for
refusing to issue a license, the Collector of Revenue shall issue the license.
(Ord. No. 963, passed 5-8-1980)
SEC. 3-2-28 CERTAIN LICENSES ISSUED BY CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Any person proposing to engage in any of the following businesses or
activities in the city shall apply in writing to the City Council for a
license:
      (1)   Bowling alley operator;
      (2)   Billiard or pool room operator;
      (3)   Companies of gypsies and fortune tellers;
      (4)   Junk dealer;
      (5)   Taxicab business;
      (6)   Dine and dance hall operator;
      (7)   To conduct a subscription dance or other public or warehouse dance;
      (8)   Pawnbroker ($5,000 bond required by state law); and
      (9)   Limousine service.
   (B)   Each applicant for any license in addition to any requirements
provided elsewhere in this Code shall state in his or her application the name
and address of the owner of the business for which the license is sought, and,
if the owner is a corporation or association, the name and address of the
person who will manage and be responsible for the conduct of the business; the
character of the business, and the location thereof; and any other information
as may be required by the City Council.
   (C)   No license shall be granted for any business enumerated in this
section unless the City Council shall be satisfied that the applicant therefor
is of good moral character, or if the applicant be a corporation or
association, that the proposed manager is of good moral character; that the
place proposed for the business is a suitable place; and that all applicable
provisions of law, this Code and other ordinances are complied with.
   (D)   The City Council, in its discretion, may refuse to grant a license for
any such business enumerated in this section upon a finding that:
      (1)   The applicant, or manager, is not a person of good moral character;
      (2)   The place proposed for the business is not suitable; or
      (3)   Some provision of law, this Code or other ordinance would not be
complied with.
   (E)   After having granted the license the City Council may, upon notice,
revoke the license in the manner then or thereafter provided for the revocation
of licenses; provided, that whenever any such license is revoked, the ratable
part of the license tax shall be returned to the party who paid the license
tax; provided further, that any license granted for any business enumerated in
this section shall not be valid at any place other than the place designated in
the license; provided further, that whenever a license for any business
specified in this section is once granted, it may be renewed from year to year
thereafter at the same location and under the same ownership and management
upon application to the license officer if there has been no revocation of any
license prior to any application for a renewal thereof.
   (F)   There shall be no more than six licenses issued inside the city for
the operation of pawnshops. An applicant desiring a pawnbroker’s license when
the maximum number of licenses under this subsection has been issued shall file
with the City Council a written request to be considered for a pawnbroker
license if any existing pawnbroker license shall be revoked, not renewed, or
for any other reason lapse or become invalid. If at the time any license lapses
or becomes invalid and there are two or more requests for consideration for a
license, the City Council shall consider the requests in the order in which
they were filed, with the first request in time receiving first consideration.
(Ord. No. 963, passed 5-8-1980; Ord. No. 1191, § 1, passed 5-13-1982; Ord. No.
1430, § 2, passed 8-9-1984; Ord. No. 1956, § 1, passed 2-20-1989; Ord. No.
2344, § 1, passed 6-24-1991)
SEC. 3-2-29 PUBLIC HEARING; JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Each applicant for a license under the provisions of section
3-2-28 may request that the City Council grant him or her a public hearing on
his or her application, and shall have the right to introduce evidence in his
or her behalf and be represented by counsel at such hearing. If the City
Council should deny any such application, the Council shall have a record made
of its findings of fact and conclusions of law, from which the applicant may
appeal to any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. 963, passed 5-8-1980)
SEC. 3-2-30 NOTICE OF DEFICIENCY.
   (A)   If the Collector of Revenue determines that a person has not paid the
full amount of tax due under this article, either for the current license year
or for a prior license year, he or she shall give the person written notice of
the deficiency, pursuant to section
3-2-29 of this article. The notice of deficiency shall specify the total amount
of tax due; the balance owed; the manner and time period in which the person
may respond to the notice of the deficiency; and the consequences to the person
if he or she fails to respond as specified.
   (B)   The person may, within ten days after the day on which notice is
served, request in writing a conference. The request shall specify the person’s
objections to the notice of deficiency. By way of illustration, but not
limitation, a person who receives notice of a deficiency may object on the
following grounds:
      (1)   That the tax due has already been paid;
      (2)   That the Collector of Revenue miscalculated the amount of tax due;
      (3)   That the Collector of Revenue based his or her calculation on
incorrect or insufficient information concerning either the nature or amount of
business conducted; or
      (4)   That the Collector of Revenue based his or her determination on an
erroneous interpretation of a section of this article that establishes a
category of business subject to a particular tax.
   (C)   If the taxpayer fails to request a conference, the deficiency becomes
final and the Collector of Revenue shall proceed to collect the deficiency.
   (D)   If the taxpayer requests a conference, the Collector of Revenue shall
not proceed to collect the deficiency until he or she hears the taxpayer’s
objections and determines that the deficiency should become final.
(Ord. No. 963, passed 5-8-1980)
SEC. 3-2-31 PRORATION OF TAX; SEASONAL BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Except when a tax is based on gross receipts, if a business is begun
after January 31 but before July 1, the tax shall be one-half of the amount
otherwise due.
    (B)   Except when a tax is based on gross receipts, a person engaged in a
business which is seasonal in nature is liable for one-half of the amount of
tax otherwise due.
(Ord. No. 963, passed 5-8-1980)
SEC. 3-2-32 MULTIPLE BUSINESSES.
   If a person is engaged in a business which includes one or more business
activities for which the privilege license fee is either set or limited by
state statute, the following rules shall apply:
   (A)   Where all business activities are subject to a tax which is set or
limited by state statute, that person shall pay a total tax which equals the
sum of the maximum allowable tax under state statutes for each business.
   (B)   Where some business activities are subject to a tax which is set or
limited by state statute, that person shall pay a total tax which equals the
sum of the maximum allowable tax under state statutes for each business which
is set or limited by state statute, plus a tax on the gross receipts of that
portion of the business activities which are subject to this article, but which
are not set or limited by state statutes.
(Ord. No. 963, passed 5-8-1980; Ord. No. 1494, § 1, passed 5-13-1985)
SEC. 3-2-33 SEPARATE PLACES OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided by state law or by the tax schedule in
section
3-2-44 of this article, if a person engages in a business in two or more
separate places, a separate license tax shall be required for each place of
business.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, if a person engaged in the same business
at two or more locations within the city, which locations are contiguous,
communicate with and open directly into each other, and are operated as a unit,
the person is liable for only one license tax.
(Ord. No. 963, passed 5-8-1980)
SEC. 3-2-34 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Each person issued a license under this article shall post the license in a
conspicuous place in his or her regular place of business. If there is no
regular place of business, the license shall be kept where it may be inspected
at appropriate times by the Collector of Revenue. If a machine or other item of
personal property is licensed, the license shall be affixed to the machine or
item.
(Ord. No. 963, passed 5-8-1980)
SEC. 3-2-35 CHANGE IN PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   If a person who has obtained a license for a business taxed under this
article desires to move from one business location to another within the city,
the license which has been issued shall be valid for the remainder of the
license year at this new location, and no additional tax need be paid. Within a
reasonable time after the change in location, however, the person shall inform
the Collector of Revenue of the change in address.
(Ord. No. 963, passed 5-8-1980)
SEC. 3-2-36 NO ABATEMENT OF TAX.
   If a licensee discontinues a business before the end of the period for which
the license was issued, the license tax shall not be abated, nor shall a refund
of any part of the license tax be made.
(Ord. No. 963, passed 5-8-1980)
SEC. 3-2-37 EFFECT OF LICENSE.
   The issuance of a license under this article does not authorize the carrying
on of a business for which additional licenses or qualifications are required
by state or local law, nor does the issuance of a license prevent the city from
enacting additional regulations applicable to the licensee.
(Ord. No. 963, passed 5-8-1980)
SEC. 3-2-38 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Any person who engages in business within this city for religious,
educational or charitable purposes shall be exempt from paying any privilege
license tax levied by this article.
   (B)   Any blind person engaging in business within this city shall be exempt
from paying any privilege license tax levied by this article, to the extent
provided by G.S. 105-249.
   (C)   Any person serving in any branch of the armed forces of the United
States or in the merchant marine, and desiring to engage in business within
this city, shall be exempt from paying any privilege license tax levied by this
article during the period of such service, to the extent provided by G.S. 105-
249.1.
(Ord. No. 963, passed 5-8-1980)
Statutory reference:
   The statutes cited in subsections (B) and (C) as authority for exempting
blind people and military and merchant marine personnel from license taxes have
been repealed.
SEC. 3-2-39 PROVIDING NOTICE TO AN APPLICANT OR LICENSEE.
   Whenever this article requires the Collector of Revenue to give a written
statement or notice to an applicant or a licensee, he or she may do so in
person, by mail, by telephone, or electronic mail.
(Ord. No. 963, passed 5-8-1980)
SEC. 3-2-40 RECORD OF CONFERENCES.
   The Collector of Revenue shall maintain for three years a record of each
conference held pursuant to this article. The record shall contain the
applicant’s or licensee’s name, the date of the conference, and a brief
statement of issues discussed and the result reached. After three years, the
Collector of Revenue shall dispose of the record pursuant to G.S. 121-5.
(Ord. No. 963, passed 5-8-1980)
SEC. 3-2-41 QUALIFICATION OF APPLICANT.
   In terms of general standards to be applied, the applicant shall:
   (A)   Residency. Be a legal resident of the United States;
   (B)   Good moral character. Be of good moral character. In making this
determination, the Collector of Revenue shall consider: The license history of
the applicant, whether the person, in previously operating in this or another
state under a license has had the license revoked or suspended, the reasons
therefor, and the demeanor of the applicant subsequent to the action;
   (C)   No obligations to city. Not be in default under the provisions of this
article or indebted or obligated in any manner to the city except for current
taxes; and
   (D)   Duty to keep books. Each person who conducts a business taxed under
this article shall keep all records and books necessary to compute his or her
tax liability. If a person fails to keep books and records as required, the
Collector of Revenue shall make his or her own determination of that person’s
tax liability from the information available to him or her.
(Ord. No. 963, passed 5-8-1980)
SEC. 3-2-42 UNLAWFUL TO CONDUCT BUSINESS WITHOUT A LICENSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in a business within
this city upon which a privilege license tax is imposed by this article,
without having paid the license tax specified in section
3-2-44 herein. Violators shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be fined not more than $50, or imprisoned for not more than 30 days. Each
day that a person engages in business in violation of this section constitutes
a separate offense.
   (B)   The city may seek an injunction against any person engaging in
business in violation of this section.
   (C)   A conviction under this section does not relieve a person of his or
her liability for the license tax or taxes imposed by this article.
(Ord. No. 963, passed 5-8-1980)
SEC. 3-2-43 COLLECTION OF UNPAID TAX.
   (A)   If a person begins or continues to engage in a business taxed under
this article without payment of the required privilege license tax, the
Collector of Revenue may use either of the following methods to collect the
unpaid tax:
      (1)   The remedy of levy and sale or attachment and garnishment, in
accordance with G.S. 160A-207; or
       (2)   The remedy of levy and sale of real and personal property of the
taxpayer in accordance with G.S. 105-109(d).
   (B)   Any person who begins or continues to engage in a business taxed under
this article without payment of the tax is liable for the following penalties:
5% of the tax if paid during the month of August; 10% if paid during September;
15% if paid during October; 20% if paid during November; and 25% if paid during
December. However, in no case shall the penalty be less than $5.
(Ord. No. 963, passed 5-8-1980)
SEC. 3-2-44 SCHEDULE OF LICENSE TAXES.
   (A)   All persons subject to this article shall pay a privilege license tax
according to the tax schedule established in subsection (D) below, except as
provided in section
3-2-32 of the City Code, or as provided in subsections (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   The privilege license tax on any business activity for which a fee is
set by state statute shall be the amount prescribed by law.
   (C)   For any business activity subject to tax under this article, but where
the tax is limited by state statute, that person shall pay a tax in an amount
equal to the maximum allowable tax under state statutes, and shall pay a tax
for multiple businesses according to the provisions of section
3-2-32.
   (D)   The annual privilege license tax for business activity not otherwise
limited by this article or by state statute shall be as set forth in the Manual
of Fees of the City of Greenville, North Carolina.
   (E)   A schedule of privilege license taxes shall be maintained in the
office of the collections supervisor and shall be open for public inspection.
(Ord. No. 963, passed 5-8-1980; Ord. No. 1494, § 2, passed 5-13-1985; Ord. No.
00-83, § 7, passed 6-8-2000; Ord. No. 04-70, § 8, passed 6-10-2004)
ARTICLE D. RENTAL VEHICLE TAX
SEC. 3-2-51 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the common meanings of words, for the purpose of this
article, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   Customer. Any person that leases or rents a vehicle on a short-term lease or
rental basis.
   General Statutes (G.S.). The North Carolina General Statutes and any
reference to a particular section thereof shall include the same as may be from
time to time amended, modified, supplemented, revised or superseded.
   Gross receipts. The amount that is or would be reported as gross receipts on
a business’s state income tax return, or on the federal income tax return filed
with the state income tax return if the state return does not separately state
gross receipts for the most recently completed tax year. Taxes collected
hereunder are not subject to the tax herein imposed and are not included in
“gross receipts.”
   Lease or rental.  A transfer, for consideration, of the use but not the
ownership of property to another for a period of time.
   Long-term lease or rental. A lease or rental made under a written agreement
to lease or rent property to the same person for a period of at least 365
continuous days.
   Person. Any individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary, corporation,
unincorporated association, partnership, sole proprietorship, company, firm or
other legal entity.
   Short-term lease or rental. Any lease or rental of a vehicle that is not a
long-term lease or rental.
   Tax Collector. That individual appointed by the City Council pursuant to
G.S. 105-349 to collect taxes on behalf of the City of Greenville and any other
person authorized to carry out the duties and functions of the individual.
   Taxpayer. Any person liable for the taxes imposed by this article.
   Vehicle. Any of the following:
      (1)   A motor vehicle of the private passenger type, including a
passenger van, minivan, or sport utility vehicle;
      (2)   A motor vehicle of the cargo type, including a cargo van, pickup
truck, or truck with a gross vehicle weight of 26,000 pounds or less used
predominantly in the transportation of property for other than commercial
freight, and that does not require the operator to possess a commercial
driver’s license; or
      (3)   A trailer or semi-trailer with a gross vehicle weight of 6,000
pounds or less.
(Ord. No. 00-94, passed 6-8-2000)
SEC. 3-2-52 LEVY OF TAX.
   A tax is hereby imposed and levied in an amount equal to 1.5% of the gross
receipts derived from the short-term lease or rental of vehicles at retail to
the general public. This tax on gross receipts is in addition to the privilege
taxes authorized by G.S. 160A-211.
(Ord. No. 00-94, passed 6-8-2000)
SEC. 3-2-53 COLLECTION OF THE TAX.
   Every person engaged in the business of the short-term lease or rental of
vehicles at retail to the general public shall collect at the time of the lease
or rental the tax herein levied, place the tax so collected in a segregated
account, and thereafter remit the tax to the Tax Collector in accordance with
the provisions of this article. The taxpayer shall include a provision in each
retail short-term lease or rental agreement stating that the percentage amount
enacted by this article of the total lease or rental price, excluding sales
tax, is being charged as a tax on gross receipts. The amount of the tax shall
be stated separately from the lease or rental and shown separately on the
taxpayer’s records. The tax shall be paid by the customer to the taxpayer as
trustee for and on account of the City of Greenville. The taxpayer shall be
liable for the collection thereof and for its payment to the Tax Collector and
the taxpayer’s failure to charge or to collect the tax from the customer shall
not affect the liability.
(Ord. No. 00-94, passed 6-8-2000)
SEC. 3-2-54 REPORT AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   Taxes levied under this article are due and payable when a return is
required to be filed. Every taxpayer shall, within the time specified, submit a
return to the Tax Collector on the form prescribed by the Tax Collector. A
return must be signed by the taxpayer or the taxpayer’s agent. Returns of
taxpayers are due to the Tax Collector each month on or before the fifteenth
day of the month following the month in which the tax accrues. As provided in
G.S. 160A-208.1, a return shall not be considered a public record and
information contained in a return may be disclosed only in accordance
therewith.
(Ord. No. 00-94, passed 6-8-2000)
SEC. 3-2-55 TAXPAYER TO KEEP RECORDS.
   The taxpayer shall keep and preserve suitable records of the gross receipts
received by the taxpayer in the conduct of business and such other books or
accounts as may be necessary to determine the amount of the tax for which the
taxpayer is liable under the provisions of this article. It shall be the duty
of the taxpayer to keep and preserve for a period of three years all such
records of gross receipts and other books and accounts described. All records,
books and accounts herein described shall be open for examination at all
reasonable hours during the day by the Tax Collector or his or her duly
authorized agent.
(Ord. No. 00-94, passed 6-8-2000)
SEC. 3-2-56 TAX COLLECTOR TO PROVIDE FORMS.
   The Tax Collector shall design, prepare, print and make available to all
taxpayers operating within the municipal boundaries of the City of Greenville
forms and instructions for filing returns to insure a full collection of and an
accounting for taxes due. The failure of any taxpayer to obtain or receive
forms shall not relieve the taxpayer from the payment of the tax at the time
and in the manner provided.
(Ord. No. 00-94, passed 6-8-2000)
SEC. 3-2-57 SITUS.
   The transaction giving rise to the tax herein levied shall be deemed to have
occurred at the location of the entity from which the customer takes delivery
of the vehicle.
(Ord. No. 00-94, passed 6-8-2000)
SEC. 3-2-58 PENALTIES AND REMEDIES.
   The provisions with respect to remedies and penalties applicable to G.S.
Chapter 105, Subchapter VIII (Local Government Sales and Use Tax) of the
General Statutes, as contained in Article 5 and G.S. Chapter 105, Subchapter 1,
Article 9 thereof, shall be applicable in like manner to the tax authorized to
be levied and collected under this article, to the extent that the same are not
inconsistent with the provisions hereof. The City Council of the City of
Greenville may exercise any power the Secretary of Revenue may exercise in
collecting sales and use taxes.
(Ord. No. 00-94, passed 6-8-2000)
SEC. 3-2-59 ADMINISTRATION.
   In addition to the provisions herein, the levy and collection of the taxes
herein imposed shall be otherwise administered in the same manner as the Sales
and Use Tax as provided in G.S. Chapter 105, Subchapter 1, Article 5 of the
General Statutes.
(Ord. No. 00-94, passed 6-8-2000)
TITLE 4
PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION
   [Reserved]
Editors’s note:
   Section 4-1-1 dealing with policies adopted by reference was deleted by Ord.
No. 01-76 dated June 11, 2001.
   For retirement policies, employees of the city are covered by the North
Carolina Local Government Employees’ Retirement Benefit System and the North
Carolina Law Enforcement Officers’ Benefit and Retirement System.
TITLE 5
PUBLIC SAFETY
   
Chapter 1.   Law Enforcement
   
Chapter 2.   Fire Protection and Prevention
   
Chapter 3.   Emergency and Rescue
CHAPTER 1: LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
Article A. Police Department
    
5-1-1   Composition
    
5-1-2   Chief of Police; powers and duties
    
5-1-3   Same; how vacancy filled
    
5-1-4   Appointment of personnel; exception
    
5-1-5   Oath of office
    
5-1-6   Departmental rules and regulations
    
5-1-7   Required police protection at fires
    
5-1-8   Reserve police officers; authority for establishment; supervision by
Chief of Police
    
5-1-9   Reserve police officers; powers, duties, privileges and immunities
    
5-1-10   Reserve police officers; compensation
    
5-1-11   Reserve police officers; qualifications; regulations for appointment,
removal, discipline
Article B. Mutual Aid Agreements
   
5-1-21   Mutual aid; policy; agreements authorized
ARTICLE A. POLICE DEPARTMENT
SEC. 5-1-1 COMPOSITION.
   The Police Department shall be composed of the Chief of Police and such
other personnel, having such ranks and grades as may be prescribed by the City
Manager, as may be authorized by the City Council from time to time as the
Council may deem necessary for the good government of the city, together with
such temporary patrol officers as the Chief of Police may appoint for special
purposes or in emergencies, subject to the availability of funds for such
temporary appointments.
SEC. 5-1-2 CHIEF OF POLICE; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Chief of Police shall have the supervision and control of the police
force under the regulations of the Department prescribed by the City Manager.
It shall be his or her duty, concurrently with the City Manager, to see that
the rules governing the personal conduct and personal appearance of the members
of the Department are rigidly enforced and that the discipline of the force is
maintained in a high degree. He or she shall have power to suspend any member
of the Department for a period of 30 days, whenever in his or her opinion it
may be necessary. Upon suspending the member he or she shall immediately report
his or her action to the City Manager in writing, stating his or her reasons
for suspension. He or she shall be the general custodian of the peace and
safety of the city, and shall be charged with the apprehension, the arrest and
the bringing before the proper courts of any offender, and to these ends he or
she shall have power to control the police officers placed under him or her.
Cross-reference:
   Police Chief’s attendance at Council meetings, Department providing Sergeant
at Arms, see §
2-1-14
   Regulation of parades, see §§
11-2-1 through
11-2-13
SEC. 5-1-3 SAME; HOW VACANCY FILLED.
   Whenever a vacancy shall occur in the office of the Chief of Police, it
shall be the duty of the City Manager to fill the vacancy by appointment.
Statutory reference:
   Appointment of Police Chief, see G.S. 160A-281
SEC. 5-1-4 APPOINTMENT OF PERSONNEL; EXCEPTION.
   Personnel of the Police Department, other than temporary patrol officers,
shall be appointed by the City Manager, after obtaining the recommendation of
the Chief of Police.
Statutory reference:
   Appointment of police officers, see G.S. 160A-281
SEC. 5-1-5 OATH OF OFFICE.
   Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, all police
officers shall take an oath of office which complies with state statutes.
Statutory reference:
   Oath of office, see G.S. 160A-284
SEC. 5-1-6 DEPARTMENTAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police may prepare rules and regulations in a standard
operating procedure manual for the government of the Department and the conduct
of its personnel. The Chief of Police may make any revision of or amendment to
the manual which is necessary, and not inconsistent with the personnel
policies. The Chief of Police will notify members of the Department. The
changes will become effective when notice is posted or otherwise given to
Department members.
(Ord. No. 891, passed 9-13-1979)
SEC. 5-1-7 REQUIRED POLICE PROTECTION AT FIRES.
   In case of fire, it shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to provide
police protection at the scene of the fire. It shall also be the duty of the
Chief of Police to provide protection for the members of the Fire Department
and their apparatus from any interference by any person whomsoever; when
necessary, to establish fire and patrol lines; to prevent vehicles from
crossing lines of hose; and to do whatsoever may be lawfully done to protect
the property and rights of the citizens and preserve the public peace.
SEC. 5-1-8 RESERVE POLICE OFFICERS; AUTHORITY FOR ESTABLISHMENT; SUPERVISION BY
CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority of G.S. 160A-282, the city may organize a
Reserve Police Department made up of volunteer members. The term “reserve” as
used in this chapter shall refer to and mean the same as the term “auxiliary”
in G.S. 160A-282.
   (B)   The Chief of Police of the city is hereby authorized to recruit,
appoint, train, equip, organize and utilize the services of the reserve police
officers who shall be subject to the same supervision and control by the Chief
of Police and subordinate commanding officers as regularly employed police
officers while undergoing official training and while performing official
duties on behalf of the city.
(Ord. No. 07-15, § 1, passed 2-5-2007)
SEC. 5-1-9 RESERVE POLICE OFFICERS; POWERS, DUTIES, PRIVILEGES AND IMMUNITIES.
   Reserve police officers who have been duly appointed and sworn shall, while
undergoing official training and while performing official duties on behalf of
the city pursuant to orders or instructions of the Chief of Police or
subordinate commanding officers, be entitled to all powers, privileges and
immunities afforded by law to regularly employed police officers, including
benefits under the North Carolina Workers’ Compensation Act, to the same extent
that regular employees of the city are entitled to the benefits of the act. For
the purposes of determining the basis for workers’ compensation payments to
reserve police, such payments shall be based upon the entrance salary of a
regular police patrol officer of the city at the time of injury to a reserve
police officer. Reserve police officers shall not be entitled to any of the
benefits provided for regular employees of the city except workers’
compensation; provided, that this article shall not in any manner affect the
rights of any person to benefits provided by the state or by any act of
Congress for civilian defense workers or reserve police officers.
(Ord. No. 07-15, § 1, passed 2-5-2007)
SEC. 5-1-10 RESERVE POLICE OFFICERS; COMPENSATION.
   Reserve police officers serving or appointed pursuant to this article shall
be entitled to compensation from the city at a rate set by the Chief of Police
and approved by the City Manager.
(Ord. No. 07-15, § 1, passed 2-5-2007; Ord. No. 08-13, § 1, passed 2-18-2008)
SEC. 5-1-11 RESERVE POLICE OFFICERS; QUALIFICATIONS; REGULATIONS FOR
APPOINTMENT, REMOVAL, DISCIPLINE.
   The Chief of Police is authorized to determine and establish uniform
qualifications and regulations for the appointment, removal and discipline of
reserve police officers.
(Ord. No. 07-15, § 1, passed 2-5-2007)
ARTICLE B. MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS
SEC. 5-1-21 MUTUAL AID; POLICY; AGREEMENTS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The Chief of Police of the Greenville Police Department is hereby
authorized to enter into mutual assistance agreements with other law
enforcement agencies in accordance with such reasonable arrangements, terms and
conditions as may be agreed upon between the respective heads of the law
enforcement agencies involved in the reciprocal assistance.
   (B)   The Chief of Police of the city is hereby authorized to enter into
mutual assistance arrangements with other municipal and county law enforcement
agencies, provided that the head of the requesting law enforcement agency or
agencies make the request in writing.
   (C)   The Chief of Police of the city is hereby authorized to permit
officers of the Greenville Police Department to work temporarily with officers
of the requesting agency or agencies, including in an undercover capacity, and
may further lend equipment and supplies as agreed upon.
   (D)   While working with the requesting agency or agencies, a police officer
of the City of Greenville shall have and be vested with the same jurisdiction,
powers, rights, privileges and immunities as an officer of the requesting
agency or agencies.
   (E)   The City of Greenville will assume all liability and responsibility
for the death of or injury to any Greenville police officers responding to the
request for assistance. The city will not assume any liability or
responsibility for the death of or injury to any personnel of the requesting
agency.
   (F)   The City of Greenville will assume all liability and responsibility
for damage to its own supplies, materials or equipment when responding to a
request for assistance. The city will not assume any liability or
responsibility for damage to the supplies, materials or equipment of the
requesting agency.
   (G)   The requesting agency will assume all liability and responsibility and
the City of Greenville will bear no liability or responsibility for death,
personal injury or property damage suffered by third persons as a result of
actions taken by Greenville police officers when responding to a request for
assistance.
   (H)   While on duty with the requesting agency, Greenville police officers
shall be subject to the lawful operational commands of their superior officer
in the requesting agency, but for personnel and administrative purposes,
including the payment of salaries, wages, bonuses and other compensation, they
shall remain under the control and authority of the City of Greenville.
   (I)   By the act of requesting assistance, the requesting agency agrees to
comply with all of the terms and conditions enumerated in this policy for the
furnishing of assistance by the City of Greenville.
   (J)   The mutual aid policy established herein shall govern all requests for
assistance received after June 8, 1978.
(Res. No. 411, passed 6-8-1978)
Statutory reference:
   Cooperation between law enforcement agencies, see G.S. 160A-288
CHAPTER 2: FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
Section
Article A. Fire Rescue Department
   
5-2-1   Supervision and control
   
5-2-2   Officers generally
   
5-2-3   Command by Chief
   
5-2-4   Obedience to orders of officers
   
5-2-5   When deputy or battalion chiefs to exercise duties of Chief
   
5-2-6   Reimbursement of costs for cleanup of hazardous material spills
   
5-2-7   Destroying buildings to prevent spread of fire
   
5-2-8   Requesting assistance of persons at fires
   
5-2-9   Fees for emergency medical services
   
5-2-10   City Council to provide fire trucks, engines, apparatus and the like
   
5-2-11   Control by Chief of station, trucks, equipment and the like
   
5-2-12   Use of apparatus beyond city limits
   
5-2-13   Mutual aid; policy; agreements authorized
   
5-2-14   Volunteer fire companies; generally
   
5-2-15   Same; membership in State Volunteer Fire Department
   
5-2-16   Departmental rules and regulations
   
5-2-17   Unauthorized riding on fire apparatus
   
5-2-18   Congregating at fires restricted
   
5-2-19   Tampering, interfering and the like with fire alarm system
   
5-2-20   Prohibited acts relating to Fire Rescue Department property
   
5-2-21   Unauthorized interference with hose and apparatus
Article B. Fire Prevention and Hazards
   
5-2-31   Fire Prevention Code adopted
   
5-2-32   Jurisdiction
   
5-2-33   Responsibility for enforcement; Life Safety Services Division
   
5-2-34   Penalties for violations of Fire Prevention Code
   
5-2-35   Procedures upon discovery of violation
Article C. Fire Alarm Systems in Fraternity and Sorority Houses
   
5-2-55   Application
   
5-2-56   Definitions
   
5-2-57   Fire alarm system required
   
5-2-58   Compliance deadlines
   
5-2-59   Fire alarm system not to be disabled
   
5-2-60   Penalties
Cross-reference:
   Fire limits, see §§
9-1-21 et seq.
Editor’s note:
   Art. A: Previous §§ 5-2-6 , 5-2-9 and 5-2-14 were deleted at the city’s
request. Section
5-2-13 was added at the city’s request.
   Art. B: The North Carolina General Assembly ratified Senate Bill 497 on July
26, 1989, authorizing the North Carolina Building Code Council to adopt a
statewide Fire Prevention Code. The Building Code Council has adopted the Fire
Prevention Code, State Building Code Volume V, with mandatory enforcement
effective July 1, 1991. Ord. No. 98-22 dated Feb. 12, 1998 amended Art. B in
its entirety. Art. B was previously as set forth in the 1971 Code.
   Authority for Art. C was done by the North Carolina General Assembly by S.L.
1999, c. 156, § 1 and is contained in Article 15 of the Local Laws section of
this Code. The creation of this Article was done by Ord. No. 02-17 adopted by
the Greenville City Council on Feb. 14, 2002.
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of technical codes by reference, see G.S. 160A-76
   Creation of Fire Department, appointment of Chief and additional
firefighters, see G.S. 160A-291
ARTICLE A. FIRE RESCUE DEPARTMENT
SEC. 5-2-1 SUPERVISION AND CONTROL.
   All the powers and duties vested in or imposed upon the Fire Rescue
Department, or any officer or member thereof pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter shall be exercised and performed under the supervision and control of
the City Manager.
SEC. 5-2-2 OFFICERS GENERALLY.
   Officers of the Fire Rescue Department shall consist of a Chief, Deputy
Chief(s), battalion chiefs and the commanding officers of each company.
SEC. 5-2-3 COMMAND BY CHIEF.
   The Chief of the Fire Rescue Department shall command the Fire Rescue
Department.
SEC. 5-2-4 OBEDIENCE TO ORDERS OF OFFICERS.
   All personnel of the Fire Rescue Department shall obey the orders of
officers senior to them in the chain of command.
SEC. 5-2-5 WHEN DEPUTY OR BATTALION CHIEFS TO EXERCISE DUTIES OF CHIEF.
   In the absence of the Chief of the Fire Rescue Department from the city or,
in the event of his or her being prevented from attending to his or her duties,
the designated officer shall do and perform all the duties of the Chief.
SEC. 5-2-6 REIMBURSEMENT OF COSTS FOR CLEANUP OF HAZARDOUS MATERIAL SPILLS.
   (A)   Generally. In the event of an unlawful or accidental spill, discharge,
leak, or threat of such, or any similar incident involving flammable or
combustible liquids, chemicals, gases or other hazardous materials, any person,
firm or corporation owning, using, storing, handling or transporting such
materials shall be responsible to the city for the actual cost of materials
and/or equipment used by the city to clean up or remedy the effects of such
incident. This section shall not be interpreted to create a duty on the part of
the city to respond to or remedy hazardous material spills or incidents. In the
event of an accidental spill or other hazardous material incident, the city
will encourage the use of private party remedial action.
   (B)   Responsibility to reimburse cost of material and/or equipment. The
responsibility to reimburse the cost of materials and/or equipment must be
assumed jointly and severally, and is not conditioned upon evidence of
willfulness or negligence of the owner or handler in causing or allowing the
discharge.
   (C)   Authority to recover costs. The authority to recover costs under this
section shall not include actual fire suppression services which are normally
provided by the Fire Rescue Department. The authority to recover costs under
this section shall include costs incurred on calls for service either within or
outside of the city limits of the city, including mutual aid calls initiated by
other public safety agencies in Pitt County.
   (D)   Remedies additional; liens or civil actions by city. The remedies
provided by this section shall be in addition to any other remedies provided by
law. The city may use liens or civil actions as authorized under state law to
collect amounts due pursuant to this section.
(1971 Code, § 5-2-23) (Ord. No. 1762, § 1, passed 9-10-1987)
Cross-reference:
   Fire prevention and hazards, see §§
5-2-31—
5-2-35
SEC. 5-2-7 DESTROYING BUILDINGS TO PREVENT SPREAD OF FIRE.
   No building shall be blown up, pulled down or in any way destroyed for the
purpose of preventing the spread of a fire without the consent of the
designated incident commander.
SEC. 5-2-8 REQUESTING ASSISTANCE OF PERSONS AT FIRES.
   During the continuance of any fire, the Chief of the Fire Rescue Department,
or Fire Department officers acting under authority of the Chief of the Fire
Rescue Department, shall have power to call out any able-bodied persons to
assist in extinguishing the fire or in removing property from buildings afire
or threatened by fire, or to assist in making arrests; and no able-bodied
person so called upon shall willfully fail to obey any such order given for
that purpose.
SEC. 5-2-9 FEES FOR EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES.
   (A)   All persons receiving transport services and/or treatment from the
Fire Rescue Department of the City of Greenville shall be liable for, and shall
pay, the charge for service adopted by the City Council. The adopted fee for
service shall be binding upon all persons receiving such services as well as
their successors in interest, their assigns, their estates or heirs.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall authorize any city department or
employee to refuse or delay any service to any person on account of apparent
inability to pay or because of unpaid bills for previous services.
   (C)   The City Manager is authorized to establish, and to change as needed,
whatever rules, regulations, interpretations and policies as are necessary to
implement and effectively administer the collection and enforcement of the fees
established by this section. In establishing or amending the rules,
regulations, interpretations and policies authorized by this section, the
Manager shall be guided by the following principles:
      (1)   Rules, regulations, interpretations and policies shall be
consistent with applicable state, federal and local law.
      (2)   Rules, regulations, interpretations and policies shall be
consistent with generally accepted accounting principles, effective management
oversight and control, efficient operation, and generally prevailing third
party reimbursement policies.
      (3)   Rules, regulations, interpretations and policies shall not allow
delay or refusal of service to any person on account of apparent inability to
pay, or because of unpaid bills for previous services.
   (D)   Unpaid accounts for fees under this section may be enforced by
appropriate civil actions for the collection of amounts due, including the
filing of general liens on real property as authorized in G.S. Chapter 44,
Article 9A of the General Statutes of North Carolina, the use of attachment or
garnishment proceedings as authorized by G.S. Chapter 44, Article 9B or other
appropriate means.
(1971 Code, § 5-2-22) (Ord. No. 1638, § 1, passed 8-14-1986)
SEC. 5-2-10 CITY COUNCIL TO PROVIDE FIRE TRUCKS, ENGINES, APPARATUS AND THE
LIKE.
   The equipment of the Fire Rescue Department shall consist of all fire
trucks, engines and ladder trucks and such other apparatus as the City Council
may provide.
SEC. 5-2-11 CONTROL BY CHIEF OF STATION, TRUCKS, EQUIPMENT AND THE LIKE.
   The Chief of the Fire Rescue Department shall have control and supervision
of the fire stations, trucks, engines and all other property of the Fire Rescue
Department.
SEC. 5-2-12 USE OF APPARATUS BEYOND CITY LIMITS.
   See mutual aid addition, section
5-2-13.
Statutory reference:
   Fire protection outside city limits, G.S. 160A-293
SEC. 5-2-13 MUTUAL AID; POLICY; AGREEMENTS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The Chief of the Greenville Fire Rescue Department is hereby
authorized to enter into mutual assistance agreements with other fire and EMS
(Emergency Medical Services) agencies in accordance with such reasonable
arrangements, terms and conditions as may be agreed upon between the respective
heads of the law enforcement agencies involved in the reciprocal assistance.
   (B)   The Chief of the Greenville Fire Rescue Department is hereby
authorized to enter into mutual assistance arrangements with other municipal
and county fire and EMS enforcement agencies, provided that the head of the
requesting enforcement agency or agencies makes the request in writing.
   (C)   The Chief of the Greenville Fire Rescue Department is hereby
authorized to permit officers of the Greenville Fire Rescue Department to work
temporarily with officers of the requesting agency or agencies, and may further
lend equipment and supplies as agreed upon.
   (D)   While working with the requesting agency or agencies, a fire rescue
officer of the City of Greenville shall have and be vested with the same
jurisdiction, powers, rights, privileges and immunities as an officer of the
requesting agency or agencies.
   (E)   The City of Greenville will assume all liability and responsibility
for the death of or injury to any Greenville Fire Rescue officers responding to
the request for assistance. The city will not assume any liability or
responsibility for the death of or injury to any personnel of the requesting
agency.
   (F)   The City of Greenville will assume all liability and responsibility
for damage to its own supplies, materials or equipment when responding to a
request for assistance. The city will not assume any liability or
responsibility for damage to the supplies, materials or equipment of the
requesting agency.
   (G)   The requesting agency will assume all liability and responsibility and
the City of Greenville will bear no liability or responsibility for death,
personal injury or property damage suffered by third persons as a result of
actions taken by Greenville Fire Rescue officers when responding to a request
for assistance.
   (H)   While on duty with the requesting agency, Greenville Fire Rescue
officers shall be subject to the lawful operational commands of their superior
officer in the requesting agency, but for personnel and administrative
purposes, including the payment of salaries, wages, bonuses and other
compensation, they shall remain under the control and authority of the City of
Greenville.
   (I)   By the act of requesting assistance, the requesting agency agrees to
comply with all of the terms and conditions enumerated in this policy for the
furnishing of assistance by the City of Greenville.
(Res. No. 411, passed 6-8-1978)
Statutory reference:
   Mutual aid between Fire Departments, see G.S. 58-83-1
SEC. 5-2-14 VOLUNTEER FIRE COMPANIES; GENERALLY.
   There may be one fire company, composed of volunteers, whose membership
shall not exceed 12 members. Any volunteer fire company failing to comply with
the rules and regulations of the Department may be immediately dismissed.
(1971 Code, § 5-2-13)
SEC. 5-2-15 SAME; MEMBERSHIP IN STATE VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   Pursuant to G.S. 58-80-15, the City Council hereby resolves that the one
volunteer fire company and the members thereof shall participate in and be
members of the State Volunteer Fire Department and shall be entitled to all of
the benefits of such membership which accrue to volunteer firefighters;
provided, that no person shall be a member of the State Volunteer Fire
Department by compulsion, and any person to whom this section is applicable may
give written notice to the Chief of the Fire Rescue Department at any time,
stating that he or she declines membership in the State Volunteer Fire
Department.
SEC. 5-2-16 DEPARTMENTAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Manager, in consultation with the Chief of the Fire Rescue
Department, may prepare rules and regulations in an official manual for the
government of the Department and the conduct of its personnel. It shall be
unlawful for any member of the Fire Rescue Department to violate or fail to
comply with any rule or regulation in the manual. The Chief of Fire Rescue may
make any revision of or amendment to the manual which is necessary, and not
inconsistent with the personnel policies.
SEC. 5-2-17 UNAUTHORIZED RIDING ON FIRE APPARATUS.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to enter upon or ride on
the fire truck or other apparatus of the Fire Rescue Department at any time.
SEC. 5-2-18 CONGREGATING AT FIRES RESTRICTED.
   No person shall congregate with others in the streets or squares adjacent to
a fire so as to interfere with the operations of the Fire Rescue Department.
SEC. 5-2-19 TAMPERING, INTERFERING AND THE LIKE WITH FIRE ALARM SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper or interfere with, or to
render defective or inoperative, a fire alarm system.
SEC. 5-2-20 PROHIBITED ACTS RELATING TO FIRE RESCUE DEPARTMENT PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully or maliciously to destroy,
damage, tamper with, deface or carry away any of the apparatus, equipment,
vehicles or implements belonging to the Fire Rescue Department.
SEC. 5-2-21 UNAUTHORIZED INTERFERENCE WITH HOSE AND APPARATUS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb, remove or in any manner
molest any part of the firefighting apparatus of the city or any part of the
hose belonging to or being a part of the fire and rescue equipment for any
purpose other than the use thereof in fighting fire or upon the written order
of the Fire Rescue Chief.
ARTICLE B. FIRE PREVENTION AND HAZARDS
 SEC. 5-2-31 FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   In order to safeguard life and property from the hazards of fire and
explosion arising from the storage, handling, and use of hazardous substances,
materials, and devices, and from conditions hazardous to life or property in
the use or occupancy of buildings, other structures, or premises, the Standard
Fire Prevention Code, comprising Volume V of the North Carolina Building Code,
including all subsequent amendments or revisions duly adopted, is hereby
adopted by the city and incorporated by reference as though fully set forth
herein. The Standard Fire Prevention Code shall be referred to in this article
as the “Fire Prevention Code.” In the event of conflict, the more restrictive
provisions of this article shall prevail over the provisions of the Fire
Prevention Code.
   (B)   The listed standards and publications, including appendices, which
comprise a part of the Fire Prevention Code, as the same may be periodically
revised and updated, are also hereby adopted for use in the enforcement of the
Fire Prevention Code, as though fully set forth herein.
(Ord. No. 98-22, § 1, passed 2-12-1998)
SEC. 5-2-32 JURISDICTION.
   In accordance with G.S. 160A-360, the provisions of the Fire Prevention Code
are applicable and shall be enforced within the corporate limits and within the
extraterritorial jurisdictional or area of the city.
(Ord. No. 98-22, § 1, passed 2-12-1998)
SEC. 5-2-33 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ENFORCEMENT; LIFE SAFETY SERVICES DIVISION.
   (A)   The Fire Prevention Code shall be enforced by the Life Safety Services
Division of the Fire Rescue Department of the city, which shall be operated
under the supervision of the Fire Chief.
   (B)   The Life Safety Services Battalion Chief, the person in charge of the
Life Safety Services Division, shall be assigned by the Chief of the Fire
Department and shall serve at the pleasure of the Fire Chief.
   (C)   The Chief of the Fire Rescue Department may designate such members of
the Fire Rescue Department as Fire Marshal or Deputy Fire Marshal as he or she
may determine necessary.
(Ord. No. 98-22, § 1, passed 2-12-1998)
SEC. 5-2-34 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   (A)   Compliance; responsibility for enforcement. Compliance with the
provisions of this article, including all requirements of the Fire Prevention
Code adopted hereunder, shall be enforced by the inspectors of the Life Safety
Services Division of the Fire Rescue Department. In exercising its enforcement
responsibilities, the goal of the Life Safety Services Division shall be to
employ the enforcement alternatives calculated most effectively to secure
compliance with the Fire Prevention Code and other fire prevention standards
and requirements of the city.
   (B)   Person(s) liable. Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with
any of the provisions of this article herein or who shall violate or fail to
comply with any corrective order of the Life Safety Services Division issued
hereunder, or who shall build in violation of any specifications or plans
submitted and approved hereunder, shall be held responsible for a violation of
this article and be subject to the penalties and remedies herein provided. In
addition, the following persons shall be held responsible for a violation of
this article and be subject to the penalties and remedies herein provided:
      (1)   Any person owning, leasing, using, managing or occupying any
building, structure or land wherein or whereon there exists any violation of
this article, including the Fire Prevention Code, or any lawful order issued or
plan approved hereunder;
      (2)   Any architect, builder, contractor, engineer, agent or other person
who acts in concert, participates, directs or assists in the creation or
maintenance of a violation of this article or any order issued or plan approved
hereunder;
      (3)   Any person who shall erect or use any land, building or structure
or any part thereof contract to this article, the Fire Prevention Code, any
order issued or plan approved hereunder; or
      (4)   Any person who shall omit, neglect or refuse to do any act provided
for in this article, including the Fire Prevention Code, or any order issued or
plan approved hereunder.
   (C)   Penalties and remedies.  Violations of the provisions of this article
may be enforced by any one or a combination of the following methods, and the
institution of an action under any of these methods shall not relieve any party
from any other criminal or civil proceeding prescribed for violations:
      (1)   Remedies.  Any appropriate equitable remedy, including the
following:
         (a)   Injunctions and orders of abatement;
         (b)   Mandatory or prohibitory injunctions commanding the defendant to
correct unlawful condition(s) or cease the unlawful use of property;
         (c)   Order of abatement directing that buildings or other structures
be closed, demolished or removed;
         (d)   Order that fixtures, furniture or other movable property be
moved;
         (e)   Order that improvements or repairs be made; or
         (f)   Order that other action be taken as necessary to secure
compliance with the provisions of this article.
      (2)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this article shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than $100 and not more than $500.
      (3)   Civil penalty. Any act constituting a violation of this article
shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in the following amounts:
         (a)   Life Safety violation (as defined in the Fire Prevention Code),
First offense: $100;
         (b)   Life Safety violation (as defined in the Fire Prevention Code),
Second offense: $250;
         (c)   Life Safety violation (as defined in the Fire Prevention Code),
Third offense: $500;
         (d)   Life Safety violation (as defined in the Fire Prevention Code),
Subsequent offenses: all other remedies provided for in this chapter, including
but not limited to injunctive relief; and
         (e)   For violations of other provisions of this article, including
the Fire Prevention Code, $50.
(Ord. No. 98-22, § 1, passed 2-12-1998; Ord. No. 23-048, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 5-2-35 PROCEDURES UPON DISCOVERY OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Procedures upon discovery of violation. Any inspector of the Life
Safety Services Division who determines that a violation of this article has
occurred shall either personally serve upon the violator or mail to the
violator by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice of violation and
civil penalty citation. Such notice and citation shall:
       (1)   State the nature of the violation and the penalty to be imposed;
      (2)   Direct the violator to pay the civil penalty;
      (3)   Notify the offender that a failure to pay the penalty within the
prescribed time shall subject the offender to a civil action in the nature of
debt for the stated penalty plus any additional penalties, together with the
cost of the action to be taxed by the court;
      (4)   (a)   Provide and state that the penalty must be either paid as set
forth above or the failure to pay must be cleared with the Fire Rescue Chief
within a specified period of time from the issuance of the notice and citation.
The notice and citation shall further state that if the citation is not cleared
within the specified period, the filing of a civil complaint for collection of
the penalty may be initiated, together with other legal proceedings, including
the filing of criminal charges.
         (b)   As used herein, the term “cleared” shall mean either payment,
arrangement for payment to be made, or a prima facie showing to the Fire Rescue
Chief that the notice and citation were issued as a result of mistake,
inadvertence or inexcusable neglect.
      (5)   Provide and state that, unless the violation is corrected and the
civil penalty paid or otherwise cleared within the specified time period or
periods, respectively, the violator may be charged additional civil penalties
for each day’s continuing violation, as provided in subsection (B) below.
   (B)   Failure to correct violations; continuing violations. If a violation
of this article is not corrected within the time specified in the notice and
citation or other lawful order issued hereunder, the violator shall be guilty
of a new and separate offense, and each day’s further continuing violation
shall be a separate and distinct offense, enforceable by all the remedies
herein set forth, including additional civil penalties.
(Ord. No. 98-22, § 1, passed 2-12-1998)
ARTICLE C. FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS IN FRATERNITY AND SORORITY HOUSES
SEC. 5-2-55 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this article shall apply to every fraternity and sorority
house located within the corporate limits of the City of Greenville and its
extraterritorial planning jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. 02-17, passed 2-14-2002)
SEC. 5-2-56 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement
of this article:
Fire alarm system.  An alarm system meeting National Fire Protection
Association standards and including a fire alarm control panel, manual fire
alarm pull boxes at each required exit, smoke detectors in all sleep areas,
heat detectors in unoccupied areas, audible devices that can be heard
throughout the house, a central monitoring station, and a power source.
Fraternity and sorority house. Any building used as a dwelling and occupied and
maintained for college or university students who are affiliated with a social,
honorary or professional organization recognized by a college or university or
within which the functions of such an organization are conducted.
(Ord. No. 02-17, passed 2-14-2002)
 SEC. 5-2-57 FIRE ALARM SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   A fire alarm system is required to be installed in each fraternity and
sorority house in compliance with the compliance deadlines established in
section
5-2-58.
(Ord. No. 02-17, passed 2-14-2002)
SEC. 5-2-58 COMPLIANCE DEADLINES.
   (A)   Existing fraternity and sorority houses shall be brought into
compliance with the provisions of this article no later than January 1, 2005.
   (B)    If an existing structure is proposed to be converted to use as a
fraternity or sorority house, compliance with the provisions of this article
shall be required prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for use
as a fraternity or sorority house.
   (C)   If an existing structure is being used as a fraternity or sorority
house and renovations at a cost exceeding 50% of the structure’s taxable value
are proposed prior to the date on which compliance with this article would
otherwise be required, compliance with the provisions of this article shall be
required prior to a new certificate of occupancy being issued following such
renovations.
   (D)   New structures shall be required to comply with the provisions of this
article prior to a certificate of occupancy being issued for use as a
fraternity or sorority house.
(Ord. No. 02-17, passed 2-14-2002)
SEC. 5-2-59 FIRE ALARM SYSTEM NOT TO BE DISABLED.
   Upon the occupancy of any new structure as a fraternity or sorority house or
upon the occupancy of any existing structure converted to use as a fraternity
or sorority house or upon the completion of the installation of a fire alarm
system in an existing fraternity or sorority house, no person shall shut off or
disable the fire alarm system, and no owner or resident of the house shall fail
to prevent the shutting off or disabling of such a system. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, a fire alarm system may be shut off in order to perform maintenance
work on the system during the time that qualified maintenance personnel are on
the premises performing necessary maintenance work.
(Ord. No. 02-17, passed 2-14-2002)
SEC. 5-2-60 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any violation of the provisions of this article shall subject the
offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $100.
   (B)   Violators shall be issued a written citation which must be paid within
72 hours. If a person fails to pay the civil penalty within 72 hours, the city
may recover the penalty together with all costs by filing a civil action in the
general court of justice in the nature of a suit to collect a debt.
   (C)   This chapter may also be enforced by any appropriate equitable action.
   (D)   Each day that any violation continues shall be considered as a
separate offense for purposes of the penalties and remedies specified in this
section.
   (E)   Any one, all, or any combination of the foregoing penalties and
remedies may be used to enforce the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 02-17, passed 2-14-2002)
CHAPTER 3: EMERGENCY AND RESCUE
Section
Article A. In General
   
5-3-1   Emergency management plan
Article B. States of Emergency
   
5-3-6   Intent
   
5-3-7   Definitions
   
5-3-8   Proclamation declaring of state of emergency and defining emergency
area
   
5-3-9   Proclamation imposing prohibitions and restrictions
   
5-3-10   Curfew
   
5-3-11   Evacuation
   
5-3-12   Ingress, egress, and access to certain areas
   
5-3-13   Closure of certain areas
   
5-3-14   Business operation, travel, and places to congregate
   
5-3-15   Possession, transportation, sale, purchase, and consumption of
alcoholic beverages
   
5-3-16   Possession, transportation, sale, purchase, storage, and use of
gasoline, and dangerous weapons and substances
   
5-3-17   Other activities or conditions
   
5-3-18   Amendments to proclamation
   
5-3-19   Removal of prohibitions and restrictions
   
5-3-20   Exemptions
   
5-3-21   Penalty for violation
ARTICLE A. IN GENERAL
SEC. 5-3-1 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Adopted by reference. The emergency management plan of the City of
Greenville is hereby adopted by reference and shall be in full force and effect
from and after December 13, 1984.
   (B)   Amendments; availability. The emergency management plan of the city of
may be amended from time to time by the City Manager when such amendment is
necessary. All amendments by the City Manager shall be effective upon filing of
the revision with the City Clerk and inclusion in the copy of the plan kept
available in the City Clerk’s office for inspection by the public.
(Ord. No. 1454, §§ 1, 2, passed 12-13-1984)
Editor’s note: 
   Ord. No. 1454, enacted Dec. 13, 1984, did not specifically amend this Code;
hence, codification of the substantive provisions of §§ 1 and 2 of that
ordinance as §
5-3-1 is at the discretion of the editor.
Statutory reference:
   Authority of municipalities to develop emergency management plans, see G.S.
166A-7
ARTICLE B. STATES OF EMERGENCY
SEC. 5-3-6 INTENT.
   This article is intended to supplement and confirm the powers conferred by
G.S. 160A-174(a), and all other general and local laws authorizing the city to
enact ordinances for the protection of the public health and safety in times of
riot or other grave civil disturbance or emergency including but not limited to
the provisions of G.S. section 14-288.1 et seq. and Chapter 166A of the North
Carolina General Statutes, addressing local government emergency powers.
(Ord. No. 20-070, § 1, passed 12-14-2020)
SEC. 5-3-7 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this article, the following definitions shall apply and have the
following meanings:
   Emergency. As defined in G.S. § 166A-19.3.
   Emergency area. The geographical area covered by a state of emergency.
   Mayor. As defined in G.S. § 166A-19.3.
   State of emergency. A finding and declaration by the Mayor acting under the
authority of G.S. § 166A-19.22
(Ord. No. 20-070, § 1, passed 12-14-2020)
SEC. 5-3-8 PROCLAMATION DECLARING OF STATE OF EMERGENCY AND DEFINING EMERGENCY
AREA.
   (A)   Declaration of state of emergency. A state of emergency may, by
written proclamation, be declared by the Mayor if he or she finds that an
emergency exits.
   (B)   Emergency area. Unless the emergency area includes the county in
accordance with the provisions of G.S. 166A-19.22, the emergency area of the
city shall not exceed the area over which the city has jurisdiction to enact
general police-power ordinances. Accordingly, unless the Mayor’s proclamation
provides otherwise, the emergency area shall include the entirety of the area
over which the city has jurisdiction to enact general police-power ordinances.
The Mayor may declare that the emergency area includes part or all of the
city’s jurisdiction.
   (C)   When declaration of a state of emergency takes effect. Unless
otherwise provided by declaration of or other provision of law, the declaration
of a state of emergency made pursuant to this article shall take effect
immediately.
   (D)   Expiration of a state of emergency. Unless otherwise provided, a state
of emergency declared pursuant to this article shall expire when it is
terminated by the Mayor.
   (E)   Effect of declaration. The declaration of a state of emergency
pursuant to this section shall activate provisions allowed by this article and
any and all applicable local plans, mutual assistance compacts, and agreements
and shall also authorize the furnishing of assistance thereunder.
(Ord. No. 20-070, § 1, passed 12-14-2020)
SEC. 5-3-9 PROCLAMATION IMPOSING PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Authority to impose prohibitions and restrictions. During a state of
emergency declared pursuant to this article, the Mayor may impose within the
written proclamation declaring a state of emergency or by separate written
proclamation, prohibitions and restrictions, within the emergency area, as
authorized by Article 1A of Chapter 166 A of the General Statutes and further
specified in this article. The Mayor may impose all or as many of the specified
prohibitions and restrictions as are necessary, because of an emergency, to
maintain an acceptable level of public order and services, and to protect
lives, safety and property or as otherwise deemed necessary or suitable to a
particular state of emergency. The Mayor shall recite findings in the
proclamation which support the prohibitions and restrictions imposed, shall
retain a text of the proclamation, and furnish, upon request, certified copies
of it for use as evidence.
   (B)   When prohibitions and restrictions take effect; publication. The Mayor
shall take reasonable steps to give notice of the terms of the proclamation
imposing prohibitions and restrictions to those affected by it. All
prohibitions and restrictions imposed by declaration pursuant to this article
shall take effect in the emergency area immediately upon publication of the
declaration unless the declaration sets a later time. Publication shall include
all of the following:
      (1)   Posting of a signed copy of the declaration conspicuously posted on
the website of the city, if the city has a website.
      (2)   Submitting notice and a signed copy of the declaration to the North
Carolina Department of Public Safety WebEOC critical incident management
system.
      (3)   Posting of a signed copy in City Hall and in the municipal
building.
Publication may also consist of reports of the substance of the prohibitions
and restrictions in the mass communications media serving the emergency area or
other effective methods of disseminating the necessary information quickly. As
soon as practicable, however, appropriate distribution of the full text of any
declaration shall be made.
   (C)   Expiration of prohibitions and restrictions. Prohibitions and
restrictions imposed pursuant to this article shall expire upon the earliest
occurrence of any of the following:
      (1)   The prohibition or restriction is terminated by the Mayor.
      (2)   The state of emergency terminates.
(Ord. No. 20-070, § 1, passed 12-14-2020)
SEC. 5-3-10 CURFEW.
   (A)   The Mayor is authorized to impose, by written proclamation,
prohibitions and restrictions of movements of people in public places, and may
impose a curfew prohibiting in certain specified areas and during certain
periods the appearance in public of anyone who is not otherwise exempted from
such appearance in public. The proclamation shall specify the geographical area
or areas wherein a curfew is imposed and the period during each 24-hour day to
which the curfew applies.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified in the proclamation, the curfew shall apply
during the specified period each day until the Mayor, by proclamation, removes
the curfew.
(Ord. No. 20-070, § 1, passed 12-14-2020)
SEC. 5-3-11 EVACUATION.
   (A)   The Mayor is authorized to impose, by written proclamation,
prohibitions and restrictions of movements of people in public places, and may
impose prohibitions and restrictions directing and compelling the voluntary or
mandatory evacuation of all or part of the population, who are not members of
an exempted class, to leave from and not return to any specified stricken or
threatened area within the jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   The proclamation made in accordance with this section shall specify
the geographical area or areas to which the evacuation order applies. The Mayor
may also prescribe routes, modes of transportation, and destinations in
connection with the evacuation.
(Ord. No. 20-070, § 1, passed 12-14-2020)
SEC. 5-3-12 INGRESS, EGRESS, AND ACCESS TO CERTAIN AREAS.
   (A)   The Mayor is authorized to impose, by written proclamation,
prohibitions and restrictions of movements of people in public places, and may
impose prohibitions and restrictions controlling ingress and egress of an
emergency area, and the movement of persons within the area.
   (B)   The proclamation made in accordance with this section may prohibit
obtaining access or attempting to obtain access to any area, designated in the
manner described in this section, in violation of any order, clearly posted
notice, or barricade indicating that access is denied or restricted.
   (C)   Areas to which access is denied or restricted shall be designated by
the Chief of Police and his or her subordinates when directed in the
proclamation to do so by the Mayor. When acting under this authority, the Chief
of Police and his or her designees and subordinates may restrict or deny access
to any area, street, or location within the city if that restriction or denial
of access or use is reasonably necessary to promote efforts being made to
overcome the emergency or to prevent further aggravation of the emergency.
(Ord. No. 20-070, § 1, passed 12-14-2020)
SEC. 5-3-13 CLOSURE OF CERTAIN AREAS.
   (A)   The Mayor is authorized to impose, by written proclamation,
prohibitions and restrictions of movements of people in public places, and may
impose prohibitions and restrictions providing for the closure, within the
emergency area, of streets, roads, highways, bridges, public vehicular areas,
or other areas ordinarily used for vehicular travel, except to the movement of
emergency responders and other persons necessary for recovery from the
emergency.
   (B)   Additional notice and dissemination required. In addition to any other
notice or dissemination of information required by this article, notification
of any closure of a road or public vehicular area under the authority of this
section shall be given to the North Carolina Department of Transportation as
soon as practicable.
   (C)   Designation to the sheriff. The proclamation made in accordance with
this section may designate the sheriff of Pitt County to exercise the authority
granted by section.
   (D)   Ensuring availability of emergency supplies and utility services;
protection of livestock, poultry, and agricultural crops. The provisions of
G.S. 166A-19.70(c) and (d) shall apply to this section.
(Ord. No. 20-070, § 1, passed 12-14-2020)
SEC. 5-3-14 BUSINESS OPERATIONS, TRAVEL, AND PLACES TO CONGREGATE.
   The Mayor is authorized to impose, by written proclamation, prohibitions and
restrictions of the operation of offices, business establishments, and other
places to or from which people may travel or at which they may congregate.
(Ord. No. 20-070, § 1, passed 12-14-2020)
SEC. 5-3-15 POSSESSION, TRANSPORTATION, SALE, PURCHASE, AND CONSUMPTION OF
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   The Mayor is authorized to impose, by written proclamation, prohibitions and
restrictions upon the possession, transportation, sale, purchase, and
consumption of alcoholic beverages other than on one’s own premises. The
prohibition and restriction, if imposed, may apply to sales of spirituous
liquor by employees of North Carolina Alcoholic Beverage Control stores, as
well as by anyone else within city.
(Ord. No. 20-070, § 1, passed 12-14-2020)
SEC. 5-3-16 POSSESSION, TRANSPORTATION, SALE, PURCHASE, STORAGE, AND USE OF
GASOLINE, AND DANGEROUS WEAPONS AND SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   The Mayor is authorized to impose, by written proclamation,
prohibitions and restrictions upon the possession, transportation, sale,
purchase, storage, and use of gasoline, and dangerous weapons and substances
except that this section does not authorize prohibitions or restrictions on
lawfully possessed firearms or ammunition.
   (B)   Dangerous weapons and substances defined. As used in this section, the
term dangerous weapons and substances has the same meaning as it does under
G.S. 14-288.1 and shall mean:
      (1)   Any deadly weapon, ammunition, explosive, incendiary device,
radioactive material or device, as defined in G.S. 14-288.8(c)(5); or
      (2)   Any instrument or substance designed for a use that carries a
threat of serious bodily injury or destruction of property; or
      (3)   Any instrument or substance that is capable of being used to
inflict serious bodily injury, when the circumstances indicate a probability
that such instrument or substance will be so used; or
      (4)   Any part or ingredient in any instrument or substance included
above, when the circumstances indicate a probability that such part or
ingredient will be so used.
   (C)   Firearm defined. As used in this section, the term firearm has the
same meaning as it does under G.S. 14-409.39(2) and shall mean: A handgun,
shotgun, or rifle which expels a projectile by action of an explosion.
   (D)   Handgun defined. As used in this section, the term handgun has the
same meaning as it does under G.S. 14-409.39(3) and shall mean: A pistol,
revolver, or other gun that has a short stock and is designed to be held and
fired by the use of a single hand.
(Ord. No. 20-070, § 1, passed 12-14-2020)
SEC. 5-3-17 OTHER ACTIVITIES OR CONDITIONS.
   The Mayor is authorized to impose, by written proclamation, prohibitions and
restrictions upon other activities or conditions the control of which may be
reasonably necessary to maintain order and protect lives or property during the
state of emergency.
(Ord. No. 20-070, § 1, passed 12-14-2020)
SEC. 5-3-18 AMENDMENTS TO PROCLAMATION.
   The Mayor may amend a proclamation from time to time, and may make any
modification which would have been authorized in the original proclamation. The
Mayor, in his or her discretion, may invoke the restrictions authorized by this
article in separate proclamations, and may amend any proclamation by means of a
superseding proclamation.
(Ord. No. 20-070, § 1, passed 12-14-2020)
SEC. 5-3-19 REMOVAL OF PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The Mayor shall, by proclamation, remove the prohibitions and restrictions
as the emergency no longer requires them.
(Ord. No. 20-070, § 1, passed 12-14-2020)
SEC. 5-3-20 EXEMPTIONS.
   The Mayor may exempt from some or all of the prohibitions and restrictions
classes of people whose exemption the Mayor finds necessary for the
preservation of the public health, safety, and welfare or as otherwise may be
required by law. The proclamation shall state the exempted classes and the
restrictions from which each is exempted.
(Ord. No. 20-070, § 1, passed 12-14-2020)
SEC. 5-3-21 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   Criminal remedy. Any person violating any prohibition, restriction, or order
imposed by a proclamation authorized by this article shall be guilty of a Class
2 misdemeanor in accordance with G.S. 14-288.20A.
(Ord. No. 20-070, § 1, passed 12-14-2020)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC WORKS
   
Chapter 1.   General Provisions
   
Chapter 2.   Streets and Sidewalks
   
Chapter 3.   Garbage and Refuse Collection and Disposal
   
Chapter 4.   Cemeteries
   
Chapter 5.   Trees
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
6-1-1   Public Works Director; powers and duties
   
6-1-2   Monthly report to City Manager; duty to give information
   
6-1-3   Civil penalty for violation of this title
   
6-1-4   Engineering Director; powers and duties
SEC. 6-1-1 PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Public Works Director, under the supervision of the City Manager, shall
be responsible for the following functions:
   (A)   Supervision and maintenance of all city streets and sidewalks;
   (B)   Supervision and maintenance of municipal stormwater system;
   (C)   Maintenance and upkeep of city cemeteries;
   (D)   Operation of the city garage and maintenance of all city-owned
vehicles, tools and equipment;
   (E)   Supervision of the collection, handling and disposal of garbage and
refuse;
   (F)   Management and maintenance of the Greenville Transit Division;
   (G)   Performance of other duties as directed by the City Manager; and
   (H)   Enforcement of the provisions as enumerated in this title.
(Ord. No. 1059, passed 1-8-1981; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 6-1-2 MONTHLY REPORT TO CITY MANAGER; DUTY TO GIVE INFORMATION.
   The Director of Public Works shall attend all monthly Council meetings and
shall render to the City Manager prior to each regular monthly meeting of the
Council a report of all services he or she has rendered and all amounts that he
or she has expended, and at all times he or she shall give such information
pertaining to his or her several duties as he or she may be called upon to give
from time to time by the City Manager.
(Ord. No. 23-048, § 5, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 6-1-3 CIVIL PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF THIS TITLE.
   (A)   Civil Penalties. Unless otherwise provided in a specific section, a
violation of any of the provisions of this title shall subject the offender to
a civil penalty by way of a civil ticket issued by the Director of Public Works
or his or her designee in an amount as follows:
      (1)   First violation. A violation of any of the provisions of this title
shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $100.
      (2)   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A second
violation by the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation
shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
      (3)   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations by the violator
within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject the violator
to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
   (B)   Appeals; payment of civil penalty. Unless appealed in accordance with
Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, a civil penalty
assessed for a violation of any provision of this section must be paid to and
received by the revenue division of the cty's Financial Services Department
within five business days from the date of issuance.
   (C)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with the appeal provisions of this chapter, if full payment for an
assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the revenue division of the
city's Financial Services Department, the city may recover the unpaid civil
penalty by any or all of the following methods:
      (1)   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
      (2)   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
      (3)   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105 A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
      (4)   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (5)   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect, satisfy, or
otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
   (D)   Separate offenses. Each violation of this title and each day that a
violation continues is considered a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 23-048, § 5, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 6-1-4 ENGINEERING DIRECTOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Engineering Director, under the supervision of the City Manager, shall
be responsible for the following functions:
   (A)   Management and maintenance of the Stormwater Management Enterprise
Fund;
   (B)   Management of the Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4);
   (C)   Supervision and management of the Soil Erosion and Sedimentation
Control Program;
   (D)   Management of the Capital Improvement Program related to city rights-
of-way and stormwater utility;
   (E)   Management and enforcement of the Manual of Standard Designs and
Details;
   (F)   Placement and maintenance of all traffic signs, pavement markings, and
signals;
   (G)   Performance of other duties as directed by the City Manager; and
   (H)   Responsibilities and enforcement of the provisions as enumerated in
Titles 6, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12.
(Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
CHAPTER 2: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Article A. General Provisions
   
6-2-1   Reserved
   
6-2-2   Reserved
   
6-2-3   Reserved
   
6-2-4   Reserved
   
6-2-5   Reserved
   
6-2-6   Reserved
   
6-2-7   Reserved
   
6-2-8   Erection of marquees
   
6-2-9   Reserved
   
6-2-10   Reserved
   
6-2-11   Putting glass or dangerous objects on streets
   
6-2-12   Requirements for concrete sidewalk laid by property owner
   
6-2-13   Changing street names
   
6-2-14   Right-of-way encroachments
Article B. Driveway Construction
   
6-2-31   Purpose of article
   
6-2-32   Permit required
   
6-2-33   Definitions
   
6-2-34   Applications
   
6-2-35   Reasonable right of access not to be denied
   
6-2-36   Submission of plans; information required
   
6-2-37   Permit inspections
   
6-2-38   Time limitations on validity of permits
   
6-2-39   Application review period
   
6-2-40   Width of driveway approach standards
   
6-2-40.1   Number of driveways
   
6-2-40.2   Spacing and location of driveways
   
6-2-40.3   Driveway types
   
6-2-40.4   Turn lanes, tapers and deceleration lanes
   
6-2-40.5   Traffic signals
   
6-2-40.6   Area of limited street improvements
   
6-2-40.7   Use and protection of public property
   
6-2-40.8   Specifications
   
6-2-40.9   Existing driveways
   
6-2-40.10   Protecting public from injury
   
6-2-40.11   Appeal
   
6-2-40.12   Exceptions
   
6-2-40.13   Severability
   
6-2-40.14   Enforcement
   
6-2-40.15   Penalty
Article C. Excavations and Street Maintenance
   
6-2-41   Permit prerequisite to digging of hole, ditch or excavation in street
or public place
   
6-2-42   Permit prerequisite to removal of sand and the like from street
   
6-2-43   Repair and maintenance of streets, curb and gutter, sidewalks and
other public areas
   
6-2-44   Planks, ropes and lights at excavations
Article D. Street Addresses
   
6-2-50   Applicability; assignment and display of address numbers generally
   
6-2-51   Rules for assigning numbers to buildings; notification of street name
change
   
6-2-52   Display, visibility, size and placement of numbers
   
6-2-53   Removal and incorrect display prohibited; violation and penalty
Article E. Uptown Outdoor Dining Permit
   
6-2-60   Definitions
   
6-2-61   Permit required
   
6-2-62   Minimum submission standards
   
6-2-63   Conditions
   
6-2-64   Responsibilities
   
6-2-65   Non-transferability
   
6-2-66   Revocation
   
6-2-67   Enforcement and appeals
   
6-2-68   Penalties for violations
Article F. Uptown Outdoor Dining Permit for Properties that Abut the Uptown
Parking Deck Plaza
   
6-2-75   Definitions
   
6-2-76   Permit required
   
6-2-77   Minimum submission standards
   
6-2-78   Conditions
   
6-2-79   Responsibilities
   
6-2-80   Non-transferability
   
6-2-81   Revocation
   
6-2-82   Enforcement and appeals
   
6-2-83   Penalties for violations
Article G. Use of Right-of-Way for Distributed Antenna Systems
   
6-2-90   Purpose
   
6-2-91   Definitions
   
6-2-92   Restrictions on use of city right-of-way
   
6-2-93   Application to use city right-of-way
   
6-2-94   User’s duties and responsibilities
   
6-2-95   Unauthorized distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment prohibited
   
6-2-95   Penalties
Editor’s note:
   Section 1 of Ord. No. 2371 amended Art. B, §§ 6-2-31—6-2-40, to read as set
out herein. Prior to amendment, Art. B pertained to similar subject matter and
derived from Ord. No. 893, adopted Sept. 13, 1979, and Ord. No. 906, adopted
Oct. 11, 1979.
   Section 1 of Ord. No. 23-045 amended Art. A, to repeal §§ 6-2-1—6-2-7, 6-2-
9, and 6-2-10.
Statutory reference:
   Establishment and control of streets, sidewalks and public ways, see G.S.
160A-296
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 6-2-1 RESERVED.
SEC. 6-2-2 RESERVED.
SEC. 6-2-3 RESERVED.
SEC. 6-2-4 RESERVED.
SEC. 6-2-5 RESERVED.
SEC. 6-2-6 RESERVED.
SEC. 6-2-7 RESERVED.
SEC. 6-2-8 ERECTION OF MARQUEES.
   Before the construction of any marquee is commenced, the owner of the
property or the contractor in charge of construction shall submit plans and
specifications to the Building Inspector and shall make application to the
Building Inspector for a permit to construct the marquee. If the plans and
specifications conform to the provisions of this section and all other
requirements of the law, a permit shall be given in writing and shall contain a
provision that the marquee shall be constructed in conformity with the plans
and specifications.
SEC. 6-2-9 RESERVED.
SEC. 6-2-10 RESERVED.
SEC. 6-2-11 PUTTING GLASS OR DANGEROUS OBJECTS ON STREETS.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit upon any highway any glass bottles,
glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans or any other substance likely to injure any
person, animal or vehicle upon the highway.
   (B)   Any person who drops, or permits to be dropped or thrown, upon any
highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove it, or
cause it to be removed.
   (C)   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a highway shall
remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the highway from the
vehicle.
Statutory reference:
   Throwing glass on streets, see G.S. 136-91
SEC. 6-2-12 REQUIREMENTS FOR CONCRETE SIDEWALK LAID BY PROPERTY OWNER.
   (A)   Any person desiring to lay a concrete sidewalk abutting his or her
property shall have it constructed in accordance with the Manual of Standard
Designs and Details and specifications prescribed by the City Engineer.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate this section.
(Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 6-2-13 CHANGING STREET NAMES.
   (A)   Authority. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall, by proper
resolution, approve and authorize the renaming or changing of the name of any
existing street or road located within the city limits except as provided under
subsection (D) below.
   (B)   Application. A petition for a street name change may be initiated by:
      (1)   The Planning and Zoning Commission;
      (2)   Any department of the city;
      (3)   The City Council; or
      (4)   The owner(s) of 60% or more of the lots which directly abut the
subject street or portion thereof proposed for change. The term “owner(s)”
shall constitute the person(s), firm or corporation as listed in the Pitt
County tax records and referenced by deed description on the applicable parcel
card. Where doubt exists as to the ownership of individual lots, the owner(s)
of such lands shall provide evidence of ownership to the Director of Planning
and Development Services. Where a lot is held in joint, common or other form of
multiple ownership, all the owners having title or interest in the lot must
sign the petition.
   (C)   Planning and Zoning Commission approval. A change in name of any
street or road within the city limits may be approved by the Planning and
Zoning Commission after reasonable notice and opportunity for public hearing as
provided herein:
      (1)   When there is duplication of names or other conditions which tend
to confuse the traveling public or delivery of mail, orders, messages or
emergency services;
      (2)   When it is found that a change may simplify making or giving
directions to persons seeking to locate addresses; or
      (3)   Upon other good and just reason.
   (D)   City Council approval. A change in name of any street or road within
the city limits for the expressed or implied purpose of honoring individuals,
events or locations of local, state, national or international importance may
be approved only by resolution of City Council. When the Planning and Zoning
Commission finds that an application qualifies under this subsection (D) the
application shall be forwarded to City Council for public hearing. The Planning
and Zoning Commission shall make a recommendation on the street name change
concerning compliance or conflict with the criteria listed above under
subsections (C)(1) and (2). The City Council shall utilize such recommendation
and other information in their evaluation of the request.
   (E)   Evaluation criteria. In accordance with subsection (A) above, the
Planning and Zoning Commission or City Council shall consider the following
criteria when evaluating any resolution for a street name change under their
respective authority:
      (1)   The delivery of personal, public and emergency services;
      (2)   The similarity to existing street names;
      (3)   Any condition which may confuse the traveling public;
      (4)   Ease of giving directions;
      (5)   Place, name association or history;
      (6)   Pronunciation and spelling;
      (7)   The expense to abutting property owners; and
      (8)   The expense to effected governmental agencies, including but not
limited to the City of Greenville, County of Pitt, N.C. Department of
Transportation, Greenville Utilities Commission and U.S. Postal Service.
   (F)   Procedure.
      (1)   A petition initiated under subsection (B)(1), (2) or (3) above
shall be scheduled for public hearing at the next available regular Planning
and Zoning Commission or City Council meeting following proper notice as
required by local procedure and applicable law.
      (2)   A petition initiated under subsection (B)(4) shall be submitted on
forms provided by the city to the Director of Planning and Development Services
not less than 40 working days, excluding Saturday and Sunday, prior to the
regular Planning and Zoning Commission meeting date.
      (3)   The petition shall be investigated by the Director of Planning and
Development Services for compliance with the minimum submission standards.
Where the petition is found not to meet the minimum submission standards, the
petition shall be returned by certified mail to the person indicated thereon as
submission agent. Resubmission shall be made in the nature of an original
petition. If the petition is found to meet the minimum submission requirements,
the Director of Planning and Development Services shall notify the submission
agent of petition compliance by certified mail not less than 15 working days
prior to the scheduled public hearing.
   (G)   Notice.
      (1)   Prior to the Planning and Zoning Commission public hearing, the
city shall publish notice of the proposed street name change in a newspaper
having general circulation in the city. The notice shall be published twice,
the first time not less than ten days prior to the public hearing date.
      (2)   Prior to the City Council public hearing, the city shall publish
notice of the proposed street name change in a newspaper having general
circulation in the city. The notice shall be published twice, the first time
not less than ten days prior to the public hearing date.
      (3)   The city shall notify by certified mail all the owner(s) of lands
which abut the subject street or portion thereof proposed for change. Such
notice shall be sent not less than 15 days prior to the scheduled public
hearing date. Failure to notify all owners shall not affect the validity of the
action provided due diligence has been exercised in the attempts to provide
notice.
         (a)   For purposes of this subsection, the term “owners” shall
constitute the person(s), firm or corporation listed in the Pitt County tax
record for tax mailing purposes.
         (b)   For purposes of this subsection, only those abutting owners not
party to the petition shall be so notified. The petition submission agent shall
be notified in accordance with subsection (F)(2) above as representative of the
petitioners.
      (4)   The city shall post notice of the proposed street name change at
two locations within the right-of-way of the subject street. Such notice shall
be posted not less than ten days prior to the public hearing date.
   (H)    Public hearing.
      (1)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall conduct a public hearing
prior to the adoption of any resolution for a street name change.
      (2)   Where the Planning and Zoning Commission finds that a petition for
street name change shall require approval of City Council in accordance with
subsection (D) or (K), the City Council shall conduct a public hearing prior to
the adoption of any resolution for street name change.
   (I)   Recordation. Upon adoption of any resolution of street name change,
the City Clerk shall record the resolution in the Pitt County Register of
Deeds. The name so changed shall thereafter be the legal name of the street or
road.
   (J)   Extension. Upon annexation by the city, city street names shall be
extended to the new city limit. Block numbering and address assignments shall
be made in accordance with
Title 6, Chapter 2, Article D of the Greenville City Code.
   (K)   Length of name. Street names shall be no longer than 14 characters,
including letters and spaces, and not including the suffix (i.e., road, street,
avenue) and block number. Street names longer than 14 characters may be
approved by resolution of the City Council. Street names longer than 14
characters should generally be used only to honor individuals, events or
locations and the name necessary for that purpose is longer than 14 characters.
(Ord. No. 1194, § 2, passed 6-10-1982; Ord. No. 2290, § 1, passed 1-10-1991;
Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006; Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 6-2-14 RIGHT-OF-WAY ENCROACHMENTS.
   The City Manager or designee is authorized to permit encroachments in city
rights-of-way as provided in state law including but not limited to G.S. §§
160A-296, 160A-296.1 and Ch. 160D, Article 9, Part 3 entitled, “Wireless
Telecommunications Facilities.”
(Ord. No. 24-036, § 1, passed 6-13-2024)
ARTICLE B. DRIVEWAY CONSTRUCTION
SEC. 6-2-31 PURPOSE OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   The safety and efficiency of a roadway is directly influenced by the
quantity and type of interference vehicles moving along the roadway encounter.
Most interference occurs due to vehicles entering, leaving or crossing the
roadway at intersecting streets and driveways. To maximize the capacity of a
roadway and minimize accidents, it is necessary to regulate driveways for motor
vehicles entering and leaving roadside developments and intersecting streets.
   (B)   The city recognizes the rights of the abutting property owners to have
access to their property. However, the city must also consider the right of the
other roadway users to be able to travel safely and with minimal interference.
Since these rights are at times in conflict, it is the city’s responsibility to
reconcile and, hopefully, satisfy the needs of all roadway users by regulating
driveway locations, design and construction.
   (C)   The city has adopted this driveway article to establish standards for
the location and design of driveways providing access to developments from
public or private roadways. The principle objectives of this article are:
      (1)   To provide maximum safety and protection to the motoring public
through the control of vehicular access onto public or private streets;
      (2)   To provide a uniform policy for the location, design and
construction of driveways throughout the city;
      (3)   To provide owners of abutting property with the maximum service
feasible, consistent with the safe and efficient use of public and private
streets; and
      (4)   To further increase safety and decrease congestion along major and
minor thoroughfares.
   (D)   In order to accomplish these objectives, certain goals have been
identified and listed below:
      (1)   To prohibit driveways within a certain distance of intersecting
streets unless alternate access is not available;
      (2)   To decrease the number of driveways along major and minor
thoroughfares; and
      (3)   To increase the distance between adjacent driveways along major and
minor thoroughfares.
(Ord. No. 2371, § 1, passed 9-23-1991)
SEC. 6-2-32 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No persons, firm or corporation shall remove, alter, construct or cause to
be constructed any curb cut, driveway approach, gutter or pavement that crosses
any sidewalk, street right-of-way, parkway or into any public or private street
or upon any other property owned, controlled or dedicated to the city without
first obtaining a permit from the City Engineer or his or her authorized agent.
(Ord. No. 2371, § 1, passed 9-23-1991)
SEC. 6-2-33 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Access point. A point of ingress and egress which may be a private street,
driveway or public street.
Apron. The paved area between the gutter flow line of the intersecting roadway
and its dedicated right-of-way.
Commercial driveway.  A driveway providing vehicular ingress and egress for
property used for commercial purposes.
Curb return. The section of curb which deviates, by radius, from the gutter
flow line to the abutting property or sidewalk.
Driveway.  An area on private property providing ingress and egress for motor
vehicles to a public or private right-of-way.
Driveway angle. The angle between the centerline of the driveway and the
centerline of the intersecting roadway. “Driveway angles” shall be no less than
60 degrees.
Driveway approach. The improved area between the intersecting roadway and its
right-of-way, intended to provide ingress and egress of vehicular traffic to a
definite area on private property.
Driveway width.  The width of driveway, measured parallel to the edge of the
intersecting roadway at its right-of-way line (or at the end of approved radius
on street type entrances), from face of curb to face of curb if curb section is
installed or edge of pavement for noncurb and gutter section.
Frontage.  The length of property adjoining the street right-of-way of a single
property, track or development area between the side property lines.
Industrial driveway.  A driveway serving as an ingress and egress for property
used for industrial purposes.
Island. A raised curb area which serves as a physical barrier preventing left
turn movements.
Median.  A raised curb area which serves as a physical barrier for separating
the flow of traffic into and out of private property.
Multi-family residential driveway.  A driveway serving as ingress and egress to
property used for residential purposes other than single-family or duplex
residential.
Named access. A private driveway assigned a name by the City Engineer.
Private streets. Streets that have been publicly dedicated by easement and as
such constitute public vehicular areas as provided and regulated by the
Greenville Subdivision Ordinance. These streets are constructed in accordance
with Manual of Standard Designs and Details, but are maintained by the property
owner or pursuant to recorded agreements. No new private streets are allowed
after August 14, 2014.
Public streets.  Streets that have been accepted or are in the process of being
accepted for permanent maintenance by either the State of North Carolina or the
city. This includes roadways defined as “approved streets” in section 9-5-5 of
the subdivision regulations.
Ramp-type driveway approach. A driveway characterized by a tapered curb cut and
a continuous sidewalk, if present, that is incorporated as part of the
driveway.
Residential driveway. A driveway providing vehicular ingress or egress for
individual residential property used for single-family or duplex residential
purposes.
Right-of-way. The area within legally defined property boundaries where title,
easement, dedication or other property right rests with the city or state and
is designated or intended for use as a public street or roadway.
Sidewalk. An improved area on public or private property, generally parallel to
edge of street roadway or curb, where pedestrians walk or stand.
Sight distance.
      (1)   An imaginary line drawn across the corner of a parcel of property
that is located at the intersection of two streets. The end points of the line
are located by beginning at the intersection of the right-of-way lines and
proceeding along the right-of-way lines a distance indicated below.
         (a)   Two nonthoroughfare streets intersecting: 25 feet;
         (b)   Nonthoroughfare street intersecting a thoroughfare street: ten
feet along the nonthoroughfare and 70 feet along the thoroughfare; and
         (c)   Two thoroughfare streets intersecting: 40 feet.
      (2)   The sight distance line is created by connecting these two points
with a straight line. On median divided streets, the sight distance shall
include the portion of the median within ten feet of the right-of-way of the
intersected street (ultimate thoroughfare right-of-way if the intersected
street is a thoroughfare). No above-grade structures or vegetation in excess of
30 inches in height above adjacent edge of pavement shall be allowed within the
sight distance.
Special commercial driveway. This classification is primarily for high volume
traffic generators. Examples of this classification are: large shopping centers
(generally in excess of 75,000 square feet), major recreational facilities,
large office buildings and/or complexes containing more than 200 parking
spaces, hospitals, large industrial developments, airports and civic centers.
Street-type driveway entrance. A driveway approach characterized by a large
radius and vertical curbs with the appropriate wheel chair ramps.
Thoroughfare, major. Roads which are the principal traffic carriers of the
urban area. Their function is to move intra-urban and inter-urban traffic.
Refer to the Highway Map of the Comprehensive Transportation Plan as amended
for streets classified as “major thoroughfares.”
Thoroughfare, minor. Roads which serve the function of collecting traffic from
local streets, such as residential, commercial or industrial, and carrying it
to the major thoroughfare system. Refer to the Highway Map of the Comprehensive
Transportation Plan as amended for streets classified as “minor thoroughfares.”
(Ord. No. 2371, § 1, passed 9-23-1991; Ord. No. 2566, § 1, passed 1-14-1993;
Ord. No. 14-049, § 1, passed 8-14-2014; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 6-2-34 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   This article deals with the ingress and egress of vehicles on public
or private streets.
   (B)   Driveway approaches hereinafter constructed in the city on public
street rights-of-way or private street easements shall be constructed in
conformance with this article and the Manual of Standard Designs and Details.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut, break out or remove any
curb along any public or private street or alley except as authorized by the
provisions of this article.
   (D)   A building permit shall not be issued for the erection, construction
or change in use of any building, structure, or land unless all driveway
approaches are reviewed and approved by the City Engineer or designee.
(Ord. No. 2371, § 1, passed 9-23-1991)
SEC. 6-2-35 REASONABLE RIGHT OF ACCESS NOT TO BE DENIED.
   No property owner, lessee or tenant in possession shall be denied a
reasonable right of ingress and egress to his or her property under any of the
provisions of this article, except in those cases that access has been required
and/or provided for via access points internal to the surrounding properties.
(Ord. No. 2371, § 1, passed 9-23-1991)
SEC. 6-2-36 SUBMISSION OF PLANS; INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued until there is filed with the City Engineer
for approval: a city driveway permit application, site plans showing
information as described in section
6-2-36(C) below and payment of appropriate fees as shown in the city Manual of
Fees.
   (B)   In the case of driveways on roadways that are a part of the North
Carolina Department of Transportation street system, inside the corporate
limits of the city, no permit shall be issued until there is filed with the
City Engineer for approval five copies of the N.C. D.O.T.’s “Street and
Driveway Access Permit Application,” site plans showing location and dimensions
of all proposed and existing driveways and payment of appropriate fees as shown
in the city Manual of Fees.
   (C)   Information that must be shown on plans submitted shall include:
      (1)   Location of property and property owners;
      (2)   The nature of the present and proposed property use;
      (3)   The location of all existing and proposed buildings;
      (4)   Street pavement and right-of-way width;
      (5)   Location and dimensions of existing and proposed driveway
approaches on both sides of the affected roadway;
      (6)   For commercial and/or industrial buildings, the proposed location
of off-street loading and unloading facilities;
      (7)   Interior parking arrangements and traffic circulation patterns;
      (8)   The location of the property must be identified by street, street
address, map block, lot number and subdivision name, so that it may be located
in the field;
      (9)   Complete names and addresses of the property owners and the
applicants must be given on the application;
      (10)   The planned use of the property must be indicated as one of the
following:
         (a)   Residential, single-family or duplex;
         (b)   Residential, multi-family;
         (c)   Commercial;
         (d)   Industrial;
         (e)   Institutional;
         (f)   Governmental; and
         (g)   Automobile fuel/gasoline sales.
      (11)   Plans shall show retaining walls, drainage, utility poles, water,
sanitary sewer, electric, gas and other physical features which may affect the
driveway location; and
      (12)   Location of sight distance line(s).
(Ord. No. 2371, § 1, passed 9-23-1991; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 6-2-37 PERMIT INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Once the permit is duly issued, the supervisor on the driveway
construction site shall keep the permit available for on-the-job inspection by
authorized personnel of the city. In the event of failure to comply with the
terms of the permit, faulty workmanship and/or materials, the City Engineer or
his or her authorized agent shall have the right to stop the work until such
time as the objectionable conditions are corrected. All cost incurred in the
removal and/or correction of noncompliance with design, defective workmanship
or materials shall be borne by the applicant.
   (B)   The owner/applicant shall notify the Engineering Department after the
driveway is formed for inspection.
   (C)   All driveways are to be inspected by the City Engineer or designee
prior to the placement of concrete.
(Ord. No. 2371, § 1, passed 9-23-1991; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 6-2-38 TIME LIMITATIONS ON VALIDITY OF PERMITS.
   A driveway permit issued concurrent with or in relation to a building permit
shall run concurrent with that building permit. Otherwise, permits issued under
this article shall expire 12 months after the date of issuance if the work
authorized by the permit has not commenced. If after commencement the work is
discontinued for a period of 12 months, the permit shall immediately expire. No
work authorized by any permit which has expired shall thereafter be performed
until a new permit has been secured.
(Ord. No. 2371, § 1, passed 9-23-1991)
SEC. 6-2-39 APPLICATION REVIEW PERIOD.
   The city shall process all permit applications as expeditiously as possible.
Residential applications will be approved or denied when applied for unless
field inspections are necessary. All other driveway uses may require ten
working days in order to process the application.
(Ord. No. 2371, § 1, passed 9-23-1991)
SEC. 6-2-40 WIDTH OF DRIVEWAY APPROACH STANDARDS.
   (A)   The width of the driveway approach shall be within the minimum and
maximum limits as specified below:
 
Location                      Minimum F/F Curb Section Maximum F/F Curb Section
Residential (single-family/   10 ft.                   22 ft.
duplex)
Residential (duplex-shared    10 ft.                   26 ft.
driveway)
Residential (multi-family)    12 ft. (one-way)         16 ft. (one-way)
                              24 ft. (two-way)         36 ft. (two-way)
Commercial, industrial,       12 ft. (one-way)         18 ft. (one-way)
governmental or institutional 24 ft. (two-way)         36 ft. (two-way)
Street type driveway          24 ft.                   36 ft.
Special commercial            24 ft.                   48 ft.
 
   (B)   The width of the driveway approach shall be measured at the right-of-
way line or at the end of approved radius on street type entrances when the
radius extends beyond the right-of-way line. For driveways with an approach
angle other than 90 degrees, the width will be measured at either of the above
described points perpendicular to the driveway curb line.
   (C)   The radius of curvature of the back of curb of the return radius for
street-type entrances shall be within the minimum and maximum limits as
specified below:
 
Location                                Minimum Radius Maximum Radius
Residential (single-family/duplex)      5 ft.          10 ft.
Residential (multi-family)              5 ft.          25 ft.
Commercial, industrial, governmental or 5 ft.          50 ft.
institutional
 
   (D)   The minimum angle of the driveway with respect to pavement edge shall
be 60 degrees.
   (E)   Private street entrances shall conform to the Manual of Standard
Designs and Details.
   (F)   Medians may be permitted for street type driveways and private street
entrances only upon approval of the City Engineer and subject to the following
conditions:
      (1)   The “nose” of an approved median, used on private drives
intersecting streets with curb and gutter, shall be flush with the face of curb
of the intersected street. If the intersected street does not have curb and
gutter, then the median “nose” shall be no closer than six feet and no more
than 12 feet from the edge of pavement of the street. Note that these
requirements allow construction of medians within public right-of-way, but this
does not allow the construction of any other permanent features such as trees,
utility poles, fire hydrants, entrance signs and the like within the public
right-of-way. No shrubs will be allowed on medians in the public right-of-way
that are in excess of 30 inches in height. If and when the street that the
median encroaches upon is widened, the owner/applicant shall be responsible for
the removal of the median and appurtenances. Maintenance of the median shall be
the responsibility of the owner/applicant;
      (2)   The minimum width of the median as measured nearest the right-of-
way line (excluding the nose) shall be five feet; the minimum length measured
from the right-of-way line shall be 25 feet; the maximum width of median shall
be 20 feet;
      (3)   The combined width of pavement of the separated driveway segments
shall not exceed 48 feet; and
      (4)   Medians shall not be permitted for ramp-type driveways.
   (G)   Island size(s) shall be reviewed and approved on a case-by-case basis
by the City Engineer as deemed appropriate for the control of traffic movements
in areas of vehicular congestion.
(Ord. No. 2371, § 1, passed 9-23-1991; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 6-2-40.1 NUMBER OF DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Tracts, lots of record and preliminary plats existing prior to the
effective date of this article.
      (1)   (a)   Along major thoroughfares the number of driveways allowed
shall be as follows and subject to subsequent spacing requirements.
 
Property Frontage (F) (in feet)                   No. of Driveways Allowed
F less than or equal to 300                       1
F greater than 300, but less than or equal to 800 2
F greater than 800                                Possibly 3
 
         (b)   Two driveways is the maximum number of driveways allowed per
street frontage for any one lot. The City Engineer may approve the use of three
driveways on one lot, provided the property has more than 800 feet of frontage
and the development plan for the complete tract of land is submitted.
      (2)   (a)   Along minor thoroughfares the number of driveways allowed
shall be as follows and subject to subsequent spacing requirements.
 
Property Frontage (F) (in feet)                   No. of Driveways Allowed
F less than or equal to 250                       1
F greater than 250, but less than or equal to 600 2
F greater than 600                                Possibly 3
 
         (b)   Two driveways is the maximum number of driveways allowed per
street frontage for any one lot. The City Engineer may approve the use of three
driveways on one lot, provided the property has more than 600 feet of frontage
and the development plan for the complete tract of land is submitted.
      (3)   Along nonthoroughfare streets a maximum of two driveways will be
allowed for any one lot subject to subsequent spacing requirements. A lot with
frontage in excess of 400 feet can apply for three driveways, subject to review
of the development plan for the complete tract of land.
      (4)   When a single-family residence is located along a major or minor
thoroughfare, a loop driveway can be allowed, provided the lot has a minimum of
70 feet of frontage along the thoroughfare and there is a minimum of 30 feet
separation between adjacent edges of pavement.
   (B)   Subdivision, redivision or recombination of tracts occurring after the
effective date of this article.
      (1)   Where the division or development of land is subject to the adopted
Highway Map of the Comprehensive Transportation Plan and policies as amended,
all driveways for all subsequent or resulting tracts, lots or parcels shall not
exceed the total number of driveways allowed pursuant to sections
6-2-40.1(A)(1) and (2) of this section.
      (2)   Where the division or development of land is not subject to the
adopted Highway Map of the Comprehensive Transportation Plan and policies as
amended, all driveways for all subsequent or resulting tracts, lots or parcels
shall be subject to section
6-2-40.1(A)(3) above, unless otherwise provided.
(Ord. No. 96-92, § 1, passed 9-12-1996; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 6-2-40.2 SPACING AND LOCATION OF DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Spacing between driveways and public street intersections is as
follows. Along major thoroughfares, the minimum distance from the back of curb
of the ultimate thoroughfare street cross-section of the intersecting roadway
to the nearest edge of pavement of the proposed driveway shall be 150 feet. On
a minor thoroughfare, the minimum intersection spacing shall be 125 feet. In
addition, along nonthoroughfare streets that intersect with a thoroughfare
street, the minimum intersection spacing along the nonthoroughfare street shall
be 75 feet. On intersecting nonthoroughfare streets, the sight distance
triangle shall dictate minimum distance from street intersection to nearest
driveway.
   (B)   Along a major thoroughfare, the minimum spacing between driveway
centerlines shall be 225 feet. On minor thoroughfares the minimal driveway
spacing shall be 175 feet as measured from centerline to centerline of adjacent
driveways. These spacing requirements apply to driveways on adjacent properties
as well as on individual lots. On nonthoroughfare streets the minimum driveway
spacing on individual lots shall be 30 feet between adjacent edges of pavement
or back of curbs. The spacing requirement does not apply to adjacent property
owners on nonthoroughfare streets.
   (C)   Along all thoroughfare streets, driveways shall be aligned with
existing or proposed driveways on the opposite side of the street. Should
strict application of this article unduly limit the use of a parcel or
otherwise conflict with articles elsewhere within this chapter, the City
Engineer may vary this article. Such variance may only be granted when it will
not endanger city property or services, interfere with the flow of traffic and
is topographically feasible.
   (D)   If access to any lot so delineated on a preliminary or final plat,
approved prior to the effective date of this article, is unobtainable due to
the application of these spacing requirements, then driveways are to be located
from one another the greatest distance possible. In no case will the number of
driveways be allowed to exceed the number specified in section
6-2-40.1.
   (E)   If access to a lot, parcel or any other lawful division of land
created after the effective date of this article is unobtainable due to the
application of the above spacing requirements, then ingress-egress easements
will be provided to the nearest driveway.
   (F)   Driveways may be restricted by the City Engineer to one-way and/or
right turn only operations. Proper signs shall be erected and maintained by the
person, firm or corporation having control over the driveways, giving notice to
such restricted use of the driveways. Failure to erect or maintain the proper
signs shall be a violation of this article.
   (G)   In no case may the total width of all driveways exceed 50% of the
total property frontage.
   (H)   All driveway entrances shall be located so that the driveway curb
return, adjacent to the traveled way, will not encroach on the adjacent
property frontage.
      (1)   A minimum distance, measured at the property line and parallel to
the edge of the roadway, shall be reserved between any driveway edge of
pavement and any adjacent property lines as specified below:
         (a)   Single-family or duplex residential: five feet minimum at the
right-of-way line and may taper to one foot off the property line at a point 20
feet perpendicular from the right-of-way line.
         (b)   Multi-family, commercial, governmental, institutional: five feet
minimum or in accordance with applicable bufferyard requirements.
         (c)   Industrial, automobile fuel/gasoline sales: ten feet minimum or
in accordance with applicable bufferyard requirements.
      (2)   These distances shall apply in all cases except when a shared
driveway is needed or used. Unless otherwise approved, the shared driveway will
be centered on the property line separating the two lots.
   (I)   Driveways may only be incorporated into existing curb and gutter
sections by removing and replacing adjacent curb and gutter sections sufficient
to maintain existing drainage and alignment. Driveways for undeveloped single-
family lots of record existing prior to the effective date of this article may
be incorporated into existing curb and gutter sections by breaking off the back
of curb at the flow line and pouring a continuous apron from the flow line to
the right-of-way line.
   (J)   No part of a driveway will be allowed to encroach upon the sight
distance triangle.
(Ord. No. 2371, § 1, passed 9-23-1991)
   (K)   All sites developed for residential uses located in the area of
special flood hazard as defined in section
9-6-2 shall be required to have all driveways providing access to the site
elevated such that the lowest point on the driveway is no less than one foot
below the 100-year flood elevation or no lower than the highest accessible
point on the adjacent public street providing access to the site, which shall
be the point of entry between the development and the public street.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, additional points of access onto a public street
may be allowed to be constructed at a lesser elevation, provided that the
access is no lower than the point of access to the public street, and provided
that all elevations are no lower than the minimum necessary to provide safe
access to the public street.
(Ord. No. 00-19, § 15, passed 2-10-2000)
SEC. 6-2-40.3 DRIVEWAY TYPES.
   (A)   The standard driveway within the planning jurisdiction of the city
shall be the “ramp” type. “Street type” entrances may be used under the
following conditions:
      (1)   Driveways serving planned shopping centers;
      (2)   Driveways serving industrial land uses;
      (3)   Driveways serving any non-single-family residential use adjacent to
thoroughfares having speed limits greater than or equal to 35 miles per hour;
and
      (4)   Driveways serving any use, if the daily volume of two-way driveway
traffic is expected to exceed 100 vehicles.
   (B)   The use of street type driveways shall be limited to the above.
However, the City Engineer may allow street type driveways in other instances,
after taking into consideration traffic volumes, speed, general circulation
problems, grades and any other factors controlling the traffic movement in the
area.
(Ord. No. 2371, § 1, passed 9-23-1991)
SEC. 6-2-40.4 TURN LANES, TAPERS AND DECELERATION LANES.
   (A)   Turn lanes, tapers and/or deceleration lanes may be required by the
City Engineer where it is anticipated that the volume of traffic using the
proposed driveway(s) or street(s) may significantly interfere with the flow of
traffic on the abutting public street. Requests for turn lanes, deceleration
lanes and transition tapers shall be considered as part of the driveway
permitting process and must be shown on the submitted site plans, in addition
to the other required site plan elements.
      (1)   Minimum turn lane specifications are:
 
Type of Street     Minimum Storage Minimum Taper
Nonthoroughfare    50 ft.          100 ft.
Minor thoroughfare 100 ft.         140 ft.
Major thoroughfare 150 ft.         180 ft.
 
      (2)   The City Engineer may require additional storage based upon
anticipated traffic volumes.
   (B)   The cost of all required turn lanes, deceleration lanes and transition
tapers shall be paid for by the owner/applicant. The owner/applicant shall not
be entitled to any claims or reimbursement for expenditures involved in
construction on public right-of-way. All constructed improvements required
herein shall be the property of the city or N.C. Department of Transportation.
   (C)   Where property frontage is not adequate for construction, or where
existing utilities interfere with construction or where sight distance problems
prohibit the placement of required turn lanes, tapers and/or deceleration
lanes, the owner/applicant shall dedicate additional right-of-way for a future
lane and pay to the city an assessment equal to the cost of constructing a
deceleration lane at the time the permit is issued.
   (D)   Turn lanes for either left and/or right turns into a commercial site,
industrial site or residential subdivisions shall be required where, in the
opinion of the City Engineer, there are high roadway and/or turn volumes of
traffic, where the roadway speeds are moderate to high, or where needed due to
limited sight distance.
(Ord. No. 2371, § 1, passed 9-23-1991)
SEC. 6-2-40.5 TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   (A)   Driveways which will serve shopping centers or other large traffic
generators may be required to have signalization or alterations to existing
signals at nearby existing intersections. Justification for such controls shall
be based upon projected traffic generation data furnished by the owner/
applicant and warrants for same as described within the Manual on Uniform
Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD).
   (B)   All equipment costs incurred in the installation or alteration or
signalization at such locations shall be the responsibility of the owner/
applicant.
   (C)   The design and installation of traffic signals shall follow the latest
edition or revision of the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
   (D)   The operation/utilization of such equipment shall be controlled by the
city and/or N.C. Department of Transportation. The owner/applicant shall have
no vested rights to any traffic-control devices required or approved pursuant
to this article.
(Ord. No. 2371, § 1, passed 9-23-1991)
SEC. 6-2-40.6 AREA OF LIMITED STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   No approach shall be permitted to encompass any municipal facility
such as traffic signal standards, signs, catch basins, hydrants, crosswalks,
loading zones, utility poles, fire or alarm supports, sewer cleanouts or other
necessary structures. If encroachments are unavoidable, all appurtenances shall
be relocated or adjusted at the expense of the owner/applicant of the property
being developed.
   (B)   Existing driveway or driveway approaches shall not be altered without
first securing a permit.
(Ord. No. 2371, § 1, passed 9-23-1991)
 SEC. 6-2-40.7 USE AND PROTECTION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Rights-of-way of city streets may not be used for private or
commercial purposes. The area to which the driveway approach provides access
shall be sufficiently large to store any vehicles using the driveway completely
off the right-of-way, and must be sufficient to allow the necessary functions
to be carried out completely on private property. Parking of vehicles shall not
be permitted on plazas or sidewalks.
   (B)   To prevent vehicles from driving across sidewalks and sidewalk areas
except as an approved driveway approach and to prevent parked or maneuvering
vehicles from overhanging upon such areas, there shall be a six-inch raised
curb or stop bar constructed between the sidewalk or sidewalk areas and any
parking areas. Such barriers shall be erected at a minimum distance of three
feet from the sidewalk or sidewalk area. The bufferyard regulations set forth
in sections
9-4-115 through
9-4-122, if applicable, may require more than the above mentioned three feet.
The most restrictive guideline shall be used.
   (C)   Parking and unloading areas shall be constructed, designed and
provided as regulated by the zoning ordinance of the city.
(Ord. No. 2371, § 1, passed 9-23-1991)
SEC. 6-2-40.8 SPECIFICATIONS.
   Specifications shall be as required by the city Manual of Standard Designs
and Details. MUTCD and N.C. Department of Transportation Standards and
Specifications shall apply when they are referred to within this article.
(Ord. No. 2371, § 1, passed 9-23-1991)
SEC. 6-2-40.9 EXISTING DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Existing driveway approaches shall not be relocated, altered or
reconstructed without first securing a permit approving the relocation,
alteration or reconstruction, and the driveway approaches shall be subject to
the provisions of this article.
   (B)   When the use of any property is changed, making any portion or all of
the driveway unnecessary, the property owner/applicant shall, at his or her
expense, replace all necessary curbs, gutters and sidewalks, within 30 days
after written notice from the City Engineer.
   (C)   When an existing building or structure which is serviced by a driveway
approach not conforming to the provisions of this article is demolished,
repaired or altered, the owner/applicant shall, at his or her expense,
reconstruct the driveway approach so as to conform to the provisions of this
article.
(Ord. No. 2371, § 1, passed 9-23-1991)
SEC. 6-2-40.10 PROTECTING PUBLIC FROM INJURY.
   Whenever any construction activity regulated by this article is undertaken,
started or in progress, it shall be the duty of the contractor and the owner/
applicant to protect all persons from harm and damage. The contractor and/or
owner/applicant shall erect and maintain suitable barricades, signs, lights and
other appropriate warning devices to alert the public that such work is in
progress so that they may be sufficiently warned. All precautionary measures
shall be made in accordance with the current policy and regulations for street
construction and maintenance operation in the city.
(Ord. No. 2371, § 1, passed 9-23-1991)
SEC. 6-2-40.11 APPEAL.
   Any party aggrieved by an action of the City Engineer in refusing to issue a
driveway permit may apply to the City Manager for relief. If satisfactory
relief cannot be obtained, the party may appeal to the Planning and Zoning
Commission. Such appeals shall be administered in the same manner as a
preliminary plat.
(Ord. No. 2371, § 1, passed 9-23-1991)
SEC. 6-2-40.12 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may alter the requirements of this
article where, because of the size of the tract to be subdivided, its
topography, the condition or nature of adjoining areas, or the existence of
other unusual physical conditions, strict compliance with the provisions of
this article would cause an unusual and unnecessary hardship on the subdivider.
   (B)   In granting exceptions, the Planning and Zoning Commission may require
such conditions as will secure, insofar as practicable, the objectives of the
requirement(s) altered. Any exception thus approved is required to be entered
in writing in the minutes of the Planning and Zoning Commission and the
findings upon which departure was justified set forth.
(Ord. No. 2371, § 1, passed 9-23-1991)
SEC. 6-2-40.13 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any section or provisions of this article be declared invalid by the
courts, the same shall not affect the validity of this article as a whole or
any part thereof, other than as specifically declared invalid.
(Ord. No. 2371, § 1, passed 9-23-1991)
SEC. 6-2-40.14 ENFORCEMENT.
   The City Engineer shall be responsible for the enforcement of this article.
The City Engineer may enforce this article by withholding building permits or
certificates of occupancy. He or she may provide for enforcement by instituting
injunction, mandamus or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent
unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion,
moving, maintenance or use; to correct or abate the violation; or to prevent
the use of the driveway, structure or land. A decision of the City Engineer may
be appealed by the aggrieved party to the Planning and Zoning Commission in
accordance with section
6-2-40.11.
(Ord. No. 2371, § 1, passed 9-23-1991)
SEC. 6-2-40.15 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of this article shall subject the offender to a civil
penalty of $50.
   (B)   Each day’s continuing violation shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 2371, § 1, passed 9-23-1991)
ARTICLE C. EXCAVATIONS AND STREET MAINTENANCE
SEC. 6-2-41 PERMIT PREREQUISITE TO DIGGING OF HOLE, DITCH OR EXCAVATION IN
STREET OR PUBLIC PLACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dig any hole, ditch or excavation of
any kind whatsoever on any street or public place in the city without having
first secured a permit therefor in writing from the Public Works Department.
(Ord. No. 1176, § 1, passed 3-11-1982)
SEC. 6-2-42 PERMIT PREREQUISITE TO REMOVAL OF SAND AND THE LIKE FROM STREET.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove any sand, dirt or stone from
any street, road or sidewalk in the city without having first secured a permit
therefor in writing from the Public Works Department.
(Ord. No. 1176, § 1, passed 3-11-1982)
SEC. 6-2-43 REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE OF STREETS, CURB AND GUTTER, SIDEWALKS AND
OTHER PUBLIC AREAS.
   (A)   Upon completion of excavation work performed pursuant to this article,
the city Public Works Department shall repair and patch the area, and shall be
compensated for the work in accordance with the utility street cuts schedule in
the Manual of Fees. This shall include but shall not be limited to repairing
and patching of all utility cuts, trenches, holes or the like dug for public or
private purposes, which damage or destroy any publicly owned or controlled
street, curb and gutter, sidewalk, or any other improved area.
   (B)   The city Public Works Department shall be notified at once by the
permittee if the excavation work differs in any way from that described on the
original permit. The original permit may be amended and cost estimates changed
accordingly at any time during the excavation work upon discovery by the Public
Works Department or upon notification by the permittee, that the work differs
from that described on the original permit.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to attempt to repair or patch any
city street, curb and gutter, sidewalk or public area. Maintenance and upkeep
of these areas, including patching of potholes and cracks, is the sole
responsibility of the city Public Works Department.
(Ord. No. 1524, § 2, passed 7-11-1985)
SEC. 6-2-44 PLANKS, ROPES AND LIGHTS AT EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations in streets, public places and sidewalks shall be secured and
protected by covers, guard rails and lights in accordance with the standards
prescribed by the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD).
Cross-reference:
   Definition of MUTCD, see §
10-2-1
ARTICLE D. STREET ADDRESSES
SEC. 6-2-50 APPLICABILITY; ASSIGNMENT AND DISPLAY OF ADDRESS NUMBERS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Applicability of article. This article shall apply to the area within
the “address boundary” as established in an interlocal agreement between the
City of Greenville and the County of Pitt dated October 13, 1994.
   (B)   Duty of owner to display number. It shall be the duty of each owner of
a residential, institutional, industrial or commercial building to clearly
display the proper street address number of the assigned building so as to be
visible from the nearest public vehicular area, as defined in G.S. 20-4.01.
   (C)   City Engineer to assign numbers. The City Engineer shall be
responsible for assigning proper street address numbers. Property owners shall
be responsible for applying by mail, or in person, to the Engineering
Department for the assignment of proper address.
(Ord. No. 1786, § 1, passed 11-12-1987; Ord. No. 94-137, § 1, passed 10-13-
1994; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 6-2-51 RULES FOR ASSIGNING NUMBERS TO BUILDINGS; NOTIFICATION OF STREET
NAME CHANGE.
   The following rules shall apply in the numbering of buildings:
   (A)   The reference streets for numbering are:
      (1)   North Greene Street from First Street to Greenville city limit;
thence, along SR-1527 to Memorial Drive; thence, along Memorial Drive, US-13,
NC-11, and NC-903 to SR-1415, the address boundary line;
      (2)   South Evans Street from First Street to Greenville city limit;
thence, along SR-1700 south to the address boundary line;
      (3)   West First Street from South Evans Street westerly to Harris Mill
Run, the address boundary line; and
      (4)   East First Street from South Evans Street westerly to the address
boundary line.
   (B)   Streets intersecting the reference streets shall begin at number 100,
the second block beginning at number 200, the third block beginning at number
300, and so on.
   (C)   Going away from these reference streets, the even-number addresses
shall be on the right-hand side of the street, and the odd-number addresses on
the left-hand side of the street.
   (D)   Lots which do not have frontage on the street being numbered, but
achieve access through other public vehicular areas, shall be numbered based on
where their access intersects the street.
   (E)   Streets not intersecting reference streets and streets which are not
extensions which intersect reference streets shall, on the end of the street
nearest a reference street, begin with a block number which corresponds with an
adjacent parallel street which does intersect one of the reference streets. The
same system of numbering the block is to be followed as noted in subsection (B)
above, assigning a new 100 (or block number) to each block, or if a block is
800 feet long or more, with no intersecting street in between, then a new block
number shall begin at the most logical place for a street to be cut through it,
or halfway between the long block corners, or if the street is long enough
without intersecting streets, then a new block number shall begin at intervals
of 500 feet.
   (F)   A new block number is to be assigned to each block that enters the
street being numbered, regardless of whether the street continues across it,
and the block number shall change directly opposite the point where this
deadend street enters the street being numbered. In case of a slight offset in
intersecting streets, then the block number will change at the street
intersections instead of directly opposite the entering street.
   (G)   Named Access is assigned to commercial or multifamily developments
when there are not enough existing address numbers available to properly
address the proposed structures off of the adjoining public street. Named
Access is also assigned when three or more structures are located on a private
driveway to comply with E911 standards. The City Engineer is responsible for
determining when a Named Access is deemed necessary during the plan review
process. The proposed names for the Named Access submitted by the developer
shall be reviewed by the City Engineer. The City Engineer shall verify that the
proposed name for the Named Access is not duplicated in the city and/or Pitt
County. All proposed Named Access street names should have a name suffix of
“Way.” Once the street name verification process is complete, the City Engineer
shall assign the addresses for the structures using the Named Access. Using
Named Access will also assist the City Engineer in not having to readdress
existing structures to accommodate new development.
(Ord. No. 1786, § 1, passed 11-12-1987; Ord. No. 2106, § 1, passed 12-11-1989;
Ord. No. 94-137, § 1, passed 10-13-1994; Ord. No. 14-049, § 2, passed 8-14-
2014)
 SEC. 6-2-52 DISPLAY, VISIBILITY, SIZE AND PLACEMENT OF NUMBERS.
   Prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy for new construction or
within 30 days of the receipt of a notice from the City Engineer assigning an
address to a particular building, the owner or occupant of the building shall
display or cause to be displayed the assigned address. The displayed street
address number shall be no less than four inches high on single and duplex
buildings, no less than six inches high on multiunit buildings, attached to the
principal use structure and clearly legible from the nearest public vehicular
area for the numerals to be seen. The property owner shall also display an
additional set of numerals legible from vehicles traveling at the prevailing
speed on the roadway. Such numbers shall be located where the main driveway to
the building intersects the nearest public or private street.
(Ord. No. 1786, § 1, passed 11-12-1987; Ord. No. 94-137, § 1, passed 10-13-
1994)
SEC. 6-2-53 REMOVAL AND INCORRECT DISPLAY PROHIBITED; VIOLATION AND PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or corporation to remove or deface
a street address which is displayed in accordance with section
6-2-52. It shall also be unlawful to allow an incorrect street address to
remain on a building.
   (B)   Any violation of Article D of this chapter shall subject the offender
to a civil penalty of $50. Violators shall be issued a written citation which
must be paid within 72 hours. Each day’s continuing violation shall be a
separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 1786, § 1, passed 11-12-1987; Ord. No. 94-137, § 1, passed 10-13-
1994)
ARTICLE E. UPTOWN OUTDOOR DINING PERMIT
SEC. 6-2-60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   Uptown outdoor dining. Outdoor dining operated by a restaurant in the Uptown
Dining Area that utilizes public sidewalks and/or alleys that contain removable
chairs, tables, plants and related furnishings.
   Uptown outdoor dining area. The area where uptown outdoor dining is allowed
by permit and which is located in the geographic area within the following
boundary: Beginning at the intersection of South Pitt Street with West First
Street; thence running along West First Street to Evans Street; thence along
East First Street to Reade Street; thence along Reade Street to East Fifth
Street; thence along Reade Circle to Cotanche Street; thence along Cotanche
Street to East Tenth Street; thence along East Tenth Street to Evans Street;
thence along West Tenth Street to Dickinson Avenue; thence along Dickinson
Avenue to Atlantic Avenue; thence along Atlantic Avenue to Bonners Lane; thence
along Bonners Lane to South Pitt Street; thence along South Pitt Street to East
First Street, the point of beginning.
(Ord. 13-022, § 1, passed 5-9-2013; Ord. No. 19-20, § 1, passed 4-8-2019; Ord.
No. 25-003, § 1, passed 1-9-2025)
SEC. 6-2-61 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Uptown outdoor dining will be permitted only in the Uptown Outdoor Dining
Area. It is unlawful to operate outdoor dining on public sidewalks or alleys
without an outdoor dining permit issued by the city.
(Ord. 13-022, § 1, passed 5-9-2013)
SEC. 6-2-62 MINIMUM SUBMISSION STANDARDS.
   All applications for an outdoor dining permit shall be submitted on a form
provided by the city and contain the following information:
   (A)   One copy of a scaled sketch plan showing the proposed outdoor dining
area boundary and surrounding streetscape details including property lines,
sidewalks, lighting, trees, tree grates, planters, parking meters, benches,
street signs, bus stops, fire hydrants, driveways, alleyways, building entrance
or exit, emergency entrance or exit, standpipe, utility access, ventilations
areas, or ramps. The plan shall also include location, number, dimensions, and
arrangement of tables, chairs and other furnishings. The plan will be reviewed
for compliance with applicable rules, regulations, ordinances, law, and
statutes by the following departments/divisions: Police, Fire/Rescue,
Engineering and Planning and Development Services;
   (B)   State ABC license to serve alcoholic beverages in the outdoor dining
area (if alcoholic beverages are served);
   (C)   City beer/wine license to serve alcoholic beverages in the outdoor
dining area (if alcoholic beverages are served);
   (D)   Proof of valid insurance policy that provides a minimum liability of $
1,000,000, and has the City of Greenville and the North Carolina Department of
Transportation (NCDOT), if applicable, designated as an additional insured
under the policy;
   (E)   Written permission of abutting property owner (if outdoor dining area
includes an area adjacent to the abutting property beyond the property upon
which the restaurant is located); and
   (F)   The applicant agrees to maintain tables, chairs and other furnishings,
which shall be placed in such a manner that at least five feet (60 inches) of
unobstructed paved space of the sidewalk, measured from any permanent or semi-
permanent object, remains clear for the passage of pedestrians and provides
adequate passing space that complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act
(ADA).
(Ord. 13-022, § 1, passed 5-9-2013; Ord. No. § 2, passed 4-8-2019; Ord. No. 23-
040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023; Ord. No. 25-003, § 2, passed 1-9-2025)
SEC. 6-2-63 CONDITIONS.
   The following conditions apply to the outdoor dining permit:
   (A)   Outdoor dining must be associated with an operating restaurant in the
Uptown Outdoor Dining Area that is under the same management and shares the
same food preparation facilities, restroom facilities, and other customer
conveniences as the restaurant. Food trucks are not eligible for outdoor dining
under this article.
   (B)   Outdoor dining shall be in accordance with the plan approved by the
outdoor dining permit.
   (C)   Outdoor dining area shall not be enclosed by fixed walls and shall be
open to the air.
   (D)   Furniture may be of any construction, but must be removeable
   (E)   No tents or cash registers are allowed in the outdoor dining area.
   (F)   All furniture must be removed from the outdoor dining area each day by
1:00 a.m., or secured firmly against the storefront wall with a chain or
similar locking device. Furniture may be returned to its original state in the
outdoor dining area after 6:00 a.m. the following day.
   (G)   No additional signage shall be allowed in the outdoor dining area
except as allowed in Title 9, Chapter 4, Article N of the City Code.
   (H)   Temporary barriers are allowed provided that these are no more than
three feet (36 inches) in height and of all-metal construction.
   (I)   Umbrellas are allowed provided vertical and horizontal clearances on
sidewalks, as required by the North Carolina State Building Code and the ADA,
are maintained.
   (J)   No electrical/extension cords may be used in the outdoor dining area.
   (K)   No flooring, decking, terracing or other floor material may be
installed in the outdoor area.
   (L)   No food serving equipment or food service equipment to hold, store,
heat, warm, cold, chill or otherwise keep food to be served may be located in
the outdoor dining area.
   (M)   No food or beverage can be served to a patron in the outdoor dining
area unless the patron is seated at a table.
   (N)   Accessible routes, as required by the North Carolina State Building
Code, shall be maintained.
   (O)   Outdoor dining area may be expanded to an abutting property with the
written permission of the abutting property owner and the inclusion of the area
in the outdoor dining permit.
   (P)   Permit holder must comply with all applicable rules, regulations,
ordinances, laws or statutes, including the ADA and those regulations
promulgated or enforced by the North Carolina Alcohol Beverage Control Board
and the Pitt County Health Department (Environmental Health).
   (Q)   Outdoor dining operation must comply with all state and local sanitary
and health regulations.
   (R)   Addition of outdoor dining shall not cause the restaurant to exceed
the capacity of patrons as determined by the size of the kitchen as determined
by Pitt County Health Department.
   (S)   The permit holder shall maintain general commercial liability
insurance, naming the city and NCDOT, if applicable, as additional insured in
the amount of not less than $1,000,000 and submit a current certificate of
insurance demonstrating continued compliance with this subsection. Such
insurance shall not be cancelled without 30 day written notice to the city.
   (T)   The city maintains the right to enter the outdoor dining area at any
time for inspecting the area, ascertaining compliance with conditions of the
permit or making any repairs to public sidewalks and/or alleys.
   (U)   Tables, chairs and other furnishings shall be placed a minimum of six
feet (72 inches) from any travel lane.
   (V)   Tables, chairs, and other furnishings shall be placed in such a manner
that at least five feet (60 inches) of unobstructed paved space of the
sidewalk, measured from any permanent or semi-permanent object, remains clear
for the passage of pedestrians and provides adequate passing space that
complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act.
   (W)   Tables, chairs, and other furnishings shall not obstruct any driveway,
alleyway, building entrance or exit, emergency entrance or exit, fire hydrant
or standpipe, utility access, ventilations areas, or ramps necessary to meet
accessibility requirements under the Americans with Disabilities Act.
   (X)   The maximum posted speed permitted on the roadway adjacent to the
right-of-way to be used for outdoor dining activities shall not be greater than
45 miles per hour.
(Ord. 13-022, § 1, passed 5-9-2013; Ord. No. 13-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2013;
Ord. No. 19-020, § 3, passed 4-8-2019; Ord. No. 25-003, § 3, passed 1-9-2025)
SEC. 6-2-64 RESPONSIBILITIES.
   In addition to the conditions specified in section
6-2-63, the permit holder of an outdoor dining permit shall comply with the
following:
   (A)   Permit holder shall keep the outdoor dining area free of garbage,
trash, refuse, and other waste materials.
   (B)   Permit holder shall maintain the outdoor dining area in a clean and
usable state and must protect the right-of-way from damage.
   (C)   Permit holder shall properly clean and remove, for the safety of
pedestrians and for environmental concerns, any food, drink, and other items
spilled in the sidewalk, alley, or adjacent areas located in the right-of-way.
   (D)   Permit holder shall use and occupy the outdoor dining area in a safe
and reasonable manner in accordance with applicable laws including the
provisions of this article; and
   (E)   Permit holder shall keep and maintain the outdoor dining area in good
and complete state of repair and condition, except for ordinary wear and tear.
   (F)   Permit holder shall cease part or all outdoor dining activities in
order to allow construction, maintenance, or repair of any street, sidewalk,
utility, public building, by NCDOT, the city, its agents or employees, or by
any government entity or public utility.
(Ord. 13-022, § 1, passed 5-9-2013; Ord. No. 25-003, § 4, passed 1-9-2025)
SEC. 6-2-65 NON-TRANSFERABILITY.
   The outdoor dining permit is not transferable. A change in ownership of the
restaurant requires re-application. The outdoor dining permit is valid for one
year on a calendar year basis (from January 1 through December 31) and will
expire on December 31 regardless as to when the outdoor dining permit is
issued.
(Ord. 13-022, § 1, passed 5-9-2013; Ord. No. 25-003, § 5, passed 1-9-2025)
SEC. 6-2-66 REVOCATION.
   The outdoor dining permit may be revoked if it is determined that the permit
holder:
   (A)   Deliberately misrepresented or provided false information in the
permit application;
   (B)   Violated any provision of the City Code or county health department
regulations in connection with the operation of the outdoor dining;
   (C)   Violated any law, regulation, or ordinance regarding possession, sale,
transportation or consumption of intoxicating beverages or controlled
substances in connection with the operation of the outdoor dining;
   (D)   Operated the outdoor dining in such a manner as to create a public
nuisance or to constitute a hazard to public health, safety, and welfare;
specifically including failure to keep the outdoor dining area clean and free
of refuse;
   (E)   Failed to maintain any health, business, or other permit or license
required by law for the operation of the restaurant and/or dining and
entertainment establishment.
(Ord. 13-022, § 1, passed 5-9-2013)
SEC. 6-2-67 ENFORCEMENT AND APPEALS.
   Enforcement of this article will be the responsibility of the Director of
the Planning and Development Services or designee. An appeal of a citation or
of a denial or revocation of a permit shall be presented in writing to the
Director of the Planning and Development Services no later than five calendar
days after its issuance.
(Ord. 13-022, § 1, passed 5-9-2013; Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 6-2-68 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any violation of the provisions of this section shall subject the
offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $50. Violators shall be issued a
written citation, which must be paid within 72 hours. If the person fails to
pay the civil penalty within 72 hours, the city may recover the penalty
including all costs and attorneys fees by filing a civil action in the general
court of justice in the nature of a suit to collect a debt.
   (B)   This article may also be enforced by any appropriate equitable action.
(Ord. 13-022, § 1, passed 5-9-2013)
ARTICLE F. UPTOWN OUTDOOR DINING PERMIT FOR PROPERTIES THAT ABUT THE UPTOWN
PARKING DECK PLAZA
SEC. 6-2-75 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Uptown outdoor dining. Outdoor dining operated by a restaurant and/or dining
and entertainment establishment in the uptown outdoor dining area that utilizes
public sidewalks, access-ways, and/or alleys that contain removable chairs,
tables, plants and related appurtenances.
Uptown outdoor dining area. The area where uptown outdoor dining is allowed by
permit and which is located in the geographic area within the following
boundary: Third Street between Washington Street and Cotanche Street, Cotanche
Street between Third Street and Fourth Street, Fourth Street between Cotanche
Street and Reade Street, Reade Street and Reade Circle between Fourth Street
and Evans Street, Evans Street between Reade Circle and Fifth Street, Fifth
Street between Evans Street and Washington Street, and Washington Street
between Fifth Street and Fourth Street.
Uptown parking deck plaza. The brick and concrete plaza installed by the city
that is south of and adjacent to and west of and adjacent to the parking deck
located at the southwest corner of the intersection of East Fourth Street and
Cotanche Street.
(Ord. 15-045, § 1, passed 8-13-2015)
SEC. 6-2-76 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Uptown outdoor dining in the uptown parking deck plaza will be permitted
only pursuant to a valid outdoor dining permit issued by the city in accordance
with the provisions of this section. It is unlawful to operate outdoor dining
on public sidewalks, access-ways, or alleys without an outdoor dining permit
issued by the city.
(Ord. 15-045, § 1, passed 8-13-2015)
SEC. 6-2-77 MINIMUM SUBMISSION STANDARDS.
   All applications for an outdoor dining permit in the uptown parking deck
plaza shall be submitted on a form provided by the city and contain the
following information:
   (A)   Five copies of a scaled sketch plan showing the proposed outdoor
dining area boundary and surrounding streetscape details including property
lines, sidewalks, lighting, trees, tree grates, planters, parking meters,
benches, street signs, bus stops, and fire hydrants. The plan shall also
include location, number and arrangement of tables, chairs and other
appurtenances. The plan will be reviewed for compliance with applicable rules,
regulations, ordinances, law, and statutes by the following departments/
divisions: Police, Fire/Rescue, Engineering, and Planning and Development
Services.
   (B)   State ABC license to serve alcoholic beverages in the outdoor dining
area (if alcoholic beverages are served);
   (C)   City beer/wine license to serve alcoholic beverages in the outdoor
dining area (if alcoholic beverages are served);
   (D)   Proof of valid insurance policy that provides a minimum liability of
$1,000,000, and has the city designated as an additional insured under the
policy; and
   (E)   Written permission of abutting property owner (if outdoor dining area
includes an area adjacent to the abutting property beyond the property upon
which the restaurant or dining and entertainment establishment is located).
   (F)   The applicant agrees to maintain no less than four feet (48 inches)
minimum pedestrian clearance at all times.
(Ord. 15-045, § 1, passed 8-13-2015; Ord. No. 19-020, § 4, passed 4-8-2019;
Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 6-2-78 CONDITIONS.
   The following conditions apply to the outdoor dining permit in the uptown
parking deck plaza:
   (A)   Outdoor dining must be associated with an operating restaurant and/or
dining and entertainment establishment in the uptown outdoor dining area that
is under the same management and shares the same food preparation facilities,
restroom facilities, and other customer conveniences as the restaurant and/or
dining and entertainment establishment. For this application, all or a portion
of the outdoor dining area shall be within the uptown parking deck plaza.
   (B)   Outdoor dining shall be in accordance with the plan approved by the
outdoor dining permit.
   (C)   No service of food or alcohol after 1:00 a.m. is allowed in the
outdoor dining area. No food or alcohol consumption and/or possession of food
or alcohol after 1:00 a.m. is allowed in the outdoor dining area.
   (D)   Temporary barriers are allowed provided that these are no more than 48
inches in height and non-flammable. Barriers shall not be permanently mounted
and/or attached to the plaza area. Materials are to be reviewed and approved by
the Fire Marshal. Barriers should be of a sufficient weight to prevent them
from being easily tipped over.
   (E)   Food serving equipment or food service equipment to hold, store, heat,
warm, cold, chill or otherwise to keep food to be served may be located in the
outdoor dining area. The equipment shall not be stored in the outdoor dining
area and shall be removed by 1:00 a.m.
   (F)   Space heaters may be used in the outdoor dining area as shown on an
approved site plan (must be approved by Fire Marshal).
   (G)   Outdoor dining area shall not be enclosed by fixed walls and shall be
open to the air.
   (H)   Furniture may be of any construction except plastic.
   (I)   No tents or cash registers are allowed in the outdoor dining area.
   (J)   No additional signage shall be allowed in the outdoor dining area
except as allowed in
Title 9, Chapter 4, Article N.
   (K)   Umbrellas are allowed provided vertical and horizontal clearances on
sidewalks, as required by the North Carolina State Building Code and the
Americans with Disabilities Act, are maintained.
   (L)   No electrical/extension cords may be used in the outdoor dining area.
   (M)   No flooring, decking, terracing or other floor material may be
installed in the outdoor area.
   (N)   No food or beverage can be served to a patron in the outdoor dining
area unless the patron is seated at a table.
   (O)   Accessible routes, as required by the North Carolina State Building
Code, shall be maintained.
   (P)   Outdoor dining area may be expanded to an abutting property with the
written permission of the abutting property owner and the inclusion of the area
in the outdoor dining permit.
   (Q)   Permit holder must comply with all applicable rules, regulations,
ordinances, laws or statutes, including the Americans with Disabilities Act
(ADA) and those regulations promulgated or enforced by the North Carolina
Alcohol Beverage Control Board and the Pitt County Health Department
(Environmental Health).
   (R)   Outdoor dining operation must comply with all State and local sanitary
and health regulations.
   (S)   Addition of outdoor dining shall not cause the restaurant and/or
dining and entertainment establishment to exceed the capacity of patrons as
determined by the size of the kitchen as determined by the Pitt County Health
Department.
   (T)   The permit holder shall maintain general commercial liability
insurance, naming the city as additional insured in the amount of not less than
$1,000,000 and submit a current certificate of insurance demonstrating
continued compliance with this subsection. Such insurance shall not be
cancelled without 30 days' written notice to the city.
   (U)   The city maintains the right to enter the outdoor dining area at any
time for inspecting the area, ascertaining compliance with conditions of the
permit or making any repairs to public sidewalks and/or alleys.
(Ord. 15-045, § 1, passed 8-13-2015; Ord. No. 19-020, § 5, passed 4-8-2019)
SEC. 6-2-79 RESPONSIBILITIES.
   In addition to the conditions specified in Section 6-2-72, the permit holder
of an outdoor dining permit in the uptown parking deck plaza shall comply with
the following:
   (A)   Permit holder shall keep the outdoor dining area free of garbage,
trash, refuse, and other waste materials;
   (B)   Permit holder shall maintain the outdoor dining area in a clean and
usable state and must protect the right-of-way from damage;
   (C)   Permit holder shall properly clean and remove, for the safety of
pedestrians and for environmental concerns, any food, drink, and other items
spilled in the sidewalk, alley, or adjacent areas located in the right-of-way;
   (D)   Permit holder shall use and occupy the outdoor dining area in a safe
and reasonable manner in accordance with applicable laws including the
provisions of this section; and
   (E)   Permit holder shall keep and maintain the outdoor dining area in good
and complete state of repair and condition, except for ordinary wear and tear.
(Ord. 15-045, § 1, passed 8-13-2015)
SEC. 6-2-80 NON-TRANSFERABILITY.
   The outdoor dining permit in the uptown parking deck plaza is not
transferable. A change in ownership of the restaurant or dining and
entertainment establishment requires re-application. The outdoor dining permit
is valid for one year on a calendar year basis (from January 1 through December
31) and will expire on December 31 regardless as to when the outdoor dining
permit is issued.
(Ord. 15-045, § 1, passed 8-13-2015)
SEC. 6-2-81 REVOCATION.
   The outdoor dining permit in the uptown parking deck plaza may be revoked if
it is determined that the permit holder:
   (A)   Deliberately misrepresented or provided false information in the
permit application;
   (B)   Violated any provision of the City Code or county health department
regulations in connection with the operation of the outdoor dining;
   (C)   Violated any law, regulation, or ordinance regarding possession, sale,
transportation or consumption of intoxicating beverages or controlled
substances in connection with the operation of the outdoor dining;
   (D)   Operated the outdoor dining in such a manner as to create a public
nuisance or to constitute a hazard to public health, safety, and welfare;
specifically including failure to keep the outdoor dining area clean and free
of refuse; or
   (E)   Failed to maintain any health, business, or other permit or license
required by law for the operation of the restaurant and/or dining and
entertainment establishment.
(Ord. 15-045, § 1, passed 8-13-2015)
SEC. 6-2-82 ENFORCEMENT AND APPEALS.
   Enforcement of this section will be the responsibility of the Director of
the Planning and Development Services or designee. An appeal of a citation or
of a denial or revocation of a permit shall be presented in writing to the
Director of the Planning and Development Services no later than five calendar
days after its issuance.
(Ord. 15-045, § 1, passed 8-13-2015; Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 6-2-83 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any violation of the provisions of this section shall subject the
offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $50. Violators shall be issued a
written citation, which must be paid within 72 hours. If the person fails to
pay the civil penalty within 72 hours, the city may recover the penalty
including all costs and attorneys fees by filing a civil action in the general
court of justice in the nature of a suit to collect a debt.
   (B)   This section may also be enforced by any appropriate equitable action.
(Ord. 15-045, § 1, passed 8-13-2015)
ARTICLE G. USE OF RIGHT-OF-WAY FOR DISTRIBUTED ANTENNA SYSTEMS
SEC. 6-2-90 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to establish a policy for use of city right-
of-way to enable the city to manage the public right-of-way to protect the
public health, safety, and welfare by minimizing the congestion, inconvenience,
cost, visual impacts, deterioration, safety hazards and other adverse effects
on the public right-of-way which could result from the construction, operation,
and maintenance of additional structures.
(Ord. No. 16-067, § 1, passed 12-8-2016)
SEC. 6-2-91 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Applicant means a person who applies to use city right-of-way to install
distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment.
City right-of-way means areas dedicated for public use as streets that have
been accepted for permanent maintenance by the City of Greenville.
Distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment means antenna and supporting
equipment connected to a common source that provides wireless service within a
geographic area or structure, including the pole or similar structure upon
which the antenna and supporting equipment is attached.
Distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment permit means the permit for a person
to install or maintain distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment on or in city
right-of-way pursuant to a permit issued under this article.
   Director means the Director of the Greenville Engineering Department or,
unless the context indicates otherwise, the Director’s designee.
   User means a person who has been granted the right to install or maintain
distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment under this article.
(Ord. No. 16-067, § 1, passed 12-8-2016; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-
2023)
SEC. 6-2-92 RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF CITY RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The right to use city right-of-way. The eligibility of a person to
apply for or use city right-of-way to install distributed antenna system (DAS)
equipment is governed by this article.
   (B)   Authority of the Director. The Director shall control the installation
and maintenance of distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment on city right-of-
way and administer this article. The Director shall develop non-discriminatory
policies and regulations to implement, administer, and enforce this article.
   (C)   Priority of usage. The city has priority of use of city right-of-way.
   (D)   Reservation and restrictions. The use of a city right-of-way is
controlled by the city. The city retains complete discretion as to use of city
right-of-way as to both current and subsequent requests, including requests for
co-location or modification.
   (E)   Unauthorized use prohibited. An applicant, user, or other party does
not have the right to install distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment on
city right-of-way except as authorized by the Director. If unauthorized
distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment is discovered, the Director may
remove the unauthorized distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment from city
right-of-way without incurring liability to the owner, and at the owner’s sole
expense, if the owner of the unauthorized distributed antenna system (DAS)
equipment does not:
      (1)   Remove the unauthorized distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment
within three business days; or
      (2)   Apply for permission to have the distributed antenna system (DAS)
equipment on city right-of-way within three business days, including payment of
applicable charges or penalties.
A distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment can be removed immediately if
necessary to protect public safety or prevent imminent damage to city right-of-
way.
(Ord. No. 16-067, § 1, passed 12-8-2016)
SEC. 6-2-93 APPLICATION TO USE CITY RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Authorized user. Unless otherwise required by law, only a person who
holds a valid permit, franchise, license, or other authority, to use a city
right-of-way will be granted a distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment
permit. An applicant’s use of city right-of-way is limited to the purposes
specified in the applicant's franchise, permit, license, or other authority.
Distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment used for a purpose not authorized by
an applicant’s permit, franchise, license, or other authority, is unauthorized
distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment. A person who applies to use city
right-of-way for a private purpose will not be granted a distributed antenna
System (DAS) equipment permit.
   (B)   Application process. An applicant must file an application with the
city to use city right-of-way on a form as prescribed by the Director. The
Director shall consider each application on a first come, first served basis.
If an application cannot be approved as presented, the Director may approve a
conditional application.
   (C)   Denial of an application.
      (1)   The Director may deny an application for a distributed antenna
system (DAS) equipment permit if:
         a.   The applicant fails to submit a complete application;
         b.   The applicant fails to supplement its application with additional
information or otherwise cooperate with the city as requested in the evaluation
of the application;
         c.   The applicant fails to submit a structural engineering analysis
by a North Carolina registered professional engineer certifying that the pole
or other structure that is proposed to support the distributed antenna system
(DAS) equipment can reasonably support the proposed distributed antenna system
(DAS) equipment considering the conditions of the street and the anticipated
hazards from traffic to be encountered at the location;
         d.   The Director determines, in the Director’s judgment, that the
proposed distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment would present a safety
hazard;
         e.   The Director determines, in the Director’s judgment, that the
proposed distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment is not adequately shrouded
or camouflaged and, as a result, would, in the opinion of the Director, create
adverse visual impact;
         f.   The Director determines, in the Director’s judgment, that the
proposed distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment is located in a location
which would, in the opinion of the Director, have a substantial adverse impact
on a single property;
         g.   The Director determines, in the Director’s judgment, that the
proposed distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment is located too near other
structures within the city right-of-way which would, in the opinion of the
Director, create adverse visual impact;
         h.   The Director determines, in the Director’s judgment, that the
proposed distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment would impair the city’s
ability to operate or maintain the city right-of-way in a reasonable manner;
         i.   The Director determines, in the Director’s judgment, that the
proposed distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment and its placement would
violate the city’s standard design criteria;
         j.   The Director determines, in the Director’s judgment, that the
proposed distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment would violate the
provisions of the Zoning Ordinance;
         k.   The applicant is not in compliance with any provision of this
article; or
         l.   The applicant fails or refuses to sign a written agreement
presented by the Director to the applicant intended to assist with the
implementation of the provisions of this article or intended to assist with the
implementation of the policies and regulations developed by the Director that
are intended to preserve the city’s right to control of the city right-of-way.
      (2)   If an application is denied, the Director shall notify the
applicant in writing of the reason for the denial. If an application is denied,
an applicant may file a new application that corrects the reason for the
denial. If an application is denied, the applicant may appeal the denial to the
Director of Engineering for reconsideration no later than the thirtieth day
after the date of the denial.
   (D)   Additional costs. The applicant or user is responsible for all costs
as determined by the city to replace, enlarge, or upgrade city right-of-way to
accommodate the applicant's proposed distributed antenna system (DAS)
equipment.
   (E)   Permit requirements. A user may not change the number, kind, or
location of distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment, the method of
construction or installation, or the use of the distributed antenna system
(DAS) equipment authorized under a distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment
permit without the prior written consent of the Director.
(Ord. No. 16-067, § 1, passed 12-8-2016; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-
2023)
SEC. 6-2-94 USER’S DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Compliance with law. Distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment shall
comply with all applicable federal, state, and local laws, rules, and
regulations, city policies, applicable codes and industry standards.
   (B)   Operational and maintenance requirements.
      (1)   A user shall install, and continuously maintain approved
distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment to prevent interference with the
city’s facilities, the city’s use of city right-of-way, or the facilities or
operations of other users.
      (2)   A user may not construe a contract, permit, correspondence, or
other communication as affecting a right, privilege or duty previously
conferred or imposed by the city to or on another person. The city reserves the
right to continue or extend a right, privilege, or duty or to contract with
additional users without regard to resulting economic competition.
      (3)   A user is solely responsible for the risk and expense of
installation, operation, and maintenance of the user’s distributed antenna
system (DAS) equipment. The city does not warrant or represent that the city
right-of-way is suitable for placement of a user’s distributed antenna System
(DAS) equipment. A user shall submit a structural engineering analysis by a
North Carolina registered professional engineer certifying that the pole or
other structure that is proposed to support the distributed antenna system
(DAS) equipment can reasonably support the proposed distributed antenna system
(DAS) equipment considering the conditions of the street and the anticipated
hazards from traffic to be encountered at the location. A user shall inspect
the city right-of-way on which the user’s distributed antenna system (DAS)
equipment will be placed and shall base its determination of the suitability of
the city right-of-way for user’s purposes on such inspection, on a structural
engineering analysis by a North Carolina registered professional engineer
certifying that the pole or other structure that is proposed to support the
distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment can reasonably support the proposed
distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment considering the conditions of the
street and the anticipated hazards from traffic to be encountered at the
location. A user accepts the city right-of-way “as is” and “where is” and
assumes all risks related to the use. The city is not liable for any damage to
distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment due to an event causing damage to
the distributed antenna System (DAS) equipment.
      (4)   If the Director determines that a user’s distributed antenna system
(DAS) equipment impairs safety, the Director may require the user, at user’s
sole expense and risk, to change, move, remove, or rearrange the distributed
antenna system (DAS) equipment. The Director may also require a user to move or
rearrange its distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment to maximize the
available useable infrastructure and accommodate the distributed antenna system
(DAS) equipment of an additional user, unless the movement or rearrangement of
distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment materially impairs the use or
function of the existing user’s system. An existing user is only required to
comply with this subsection if the additional user agrees to compensate the
existing user for its actual costs to move or rearrange distributed antenna
system (DAS) equipment. If a user fails or refuses to comply with the
Director’s request to change, move, remove or rearrange any of its distributed
antenna system (DAS) equipment, the distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment
becomes unauthorized. The city may change, move, remove, or rearrange an
unauthorized distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment without liability to
user and at user’s sole cost.
      (5)   The Director may inspect, at any time, the construction or
installation of a user’s distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment on city
right-of-way. If the Director determines that a user’s installation or
construction may violate this article, applicable electrical codes, the city’s
standards for the city right-of-way involved, or the conditions of the user’s
application or permit, the Director may immediately suspend the user’s
construction or installation activities. The Director shall send written notice
to the user not later than the third business day after a suspension
identifying the alleged violation. A suspension under this subsection is
effective until the user corrects the alleged violation, at the user’s sole
expense. A user may appeal a suspension under this subsection to the Director
of Public Works.
      (6)   As a condition of the user having its facilities in city right-of-
way, the user agrees to and shall, to the extent permitted by law, defend,
indemnify and hold harmless the city, its employees, officers, agents and
contractors against any claim of liability or loss of any kind, including
administrative orders and regulations, and specifically including, without
limitation, any claim of liability or loss from personal injury or property
damage resulting from or arising out of the presence of user’s equipment in
city right-of-way and also as to any willful misconduct of the user, its
employees, contractors or agents, except to the extent such claims or damages
may be due to or caused by the willful misconduct of the city, or its
employees, officers, contractors or agents.
      (7)   The city shall not be liable to the user, or any of its respective
agents, representatives, or employees for any lost revenue, lost profits, loss
of technology, use of rights or services, incidental, punitive, indirect,
special or consequential damages, loss of data, or interruption or loss of use
of service, even if the city has been advised of the possibility of such
damages, whether under theory of contract, tort (including negligence), strict
liability or otherwise that is related to, arises out of, flows from or is, in
some part, caused by user’s distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment to or
use of city right-of-way.
   (C)   Termination.
      (1)   The city may immediately suspend the permission of a user to
install new or additional distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment if the
user materially fails to comply with the terms of its permit, or if the city
provides written notice to the user for cause. If the user fails to cure the
default on or before the sixtieth day after receipt of the notice, the city may
terminate the user’s distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment permit.
      (2)   A user shall immediately begin removal of its distributed antenna
system (DAS) equipment after termination of a user’s distributed antenna System
(DAS) equipment permit for violations of the terms of a franchise, permit,
license or other authority, a voluntary termination by a user, or a termination
by the city for cause. Unless the Director grants an extension of time, a user
must remove all distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment not later than the
sixtieth day after the effective date of termination.
      (3)   After termination of a user’s distributed antenna system (DAS)
equipment permit, the user must comply with the terms of this article, the
user’s franchise, permit, license, or other authority until all distributed
antenna system (DAS) equipment are removed.
(Ord. No. 16-067, § 1, passed 12-8-2016)
SEC. 6-2-95 UNAUTHORIZED DISTRIBUTED ANTENNA SYSTEM (DAS) EQUIPMENT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly install or maintain or fail to remove an
unauthorized distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment on city right-of- on
demand by the city or any authorized representative thereof.
   (B)   No person shall use a distributed antenna System (DAS) equipment on
city right-of-way to provide a service not authorized by a franchise, permit,
license, or other authority.
   (C)   Each unauthorized distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment or use is
a separate offense. Each day a violation of this article continues is a
separate offense.
(Ord. No. 16-067, § 1, passed 12-8-2016)
SEC. 6-2-96 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any violation of the provisions of this article or a failure to comply
with any of its requirements shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in
the amount of $250 for each offense.
   (B)   Violators shall be issued a written citation which must be paid within
72 hours. If a person fails to pay the civil penalty within 72 hours, the city
may recover the penalty, together with all costs and reasonable attorneys’
fees, by filing a civil action in the general court of justice in the nature of
a suit to collect a debt.
   (C)   This article may also be enforced by any appropriate equitable action.
   (D)   Each day that any violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense for purposes of the penalties and remedies specified in this section.
   (E)   Any one, all, or any combination of the foregoing penalties and
remedies may be used to enforce this chapter.
   (F)   Any violations of the provisions of this article shall be deemed a
non-criminal violation and shall not be a misdemeanor or infraction pursuant to
G.S. 14-4.
(Ord. No. 16-067, § 1, passed 12-8-2016)
CHAPTER 3: GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
Section
Article A. General Provisions
   
6-3-1   Definitions
   
6-3-2   Unlawful deposits of refuse
   
6-3-3   Removal of garbage and refuse
   
6-3-4   Receptacles
   
6-3-5   Interference with contents of receptacles
   
6-3-6   Duties of property owners, landlords and tenants
   
6-3-7   Tree limbs, cuttings, shrubbery, and bulky items
   
6-3-8   Cardboard to be flattened for pickup service
   
6-3-9   Receptacles; placement prohibited in right-of-way
   
6-3-10   Collection or storage of used beverage cans, bottles or cartons
   
6-3-11   Special services
Article B. Container Policy
Division 1. Industrial, Commercial and Institutional
   
6-3-21   Industrial byproduct waste
   
6-3-22   Pickup schedules
   
6-3-23   Containers; required equal to need; concrete pickup platform
   
6-3-24   Containers; design and capacity
   
6-3-25   Containers; purchase and maintenance
Division 2. Condominiums and Multi-Family Dwellings
   
6-3-31   Developers and owners to provide containers; container capacity
required
   
6-3-32   Location of containers and compactors; inclusion in site plan
   
6-3-33   Location of containers and compactors; pickup accessibility
   
6-3-34   Purchase and maintenance of containers and compactors
   
6-3-35   Unauthorized use of receptacle prohibited
   
6-3-36   Commercial/industrial refuse collection
Article C. Fees and Charges for Solid Waste Collection Services
   
6-3-41   Fees and charges for solid waste collection services
   
6-3-42   Presumption of service
   
6-3-43   Penalties
Cross-reference:
   Litter control in parking lots, see §§
11-9-1 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   Power to require connections to water or sewer service and the use of solid
waste collection services, see G.S. 160A-317
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 6-3-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   Garbage. Organic waste matter from residential areas; comprised chiefly of
waste food. “Garbage” does not include moisture that may be drained in the
sewer.
   Industrial byproduct waste. Any garbage, refuse, bulky items, and other
solid waste items accumulated as a result of industrial activities, processes,
or product distribution for disposal.
   Nonresidential unit. Any room or group of rooms used for business,
commercial, educational, religious, or other nonresidential use.
   Occupant. Any person who, alone or jointly with others, is in actual
possession of any residential unit or of any other improved real property,
either as owner or tenant.
   Recyclables. Glass jars and bottles, aluminum beverage cans, steel cans,
cardboard, plastic #1 and #2, newsprint, magazines, and other materials for
which a post-consumer recycling market exists.
   Refuse. Ashes, tin cans, dirty rags, trash, house sweepings, paper, paper
cups, shavings, bottles and other rubbish.
   Residential unit. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable
unit, including houses, apartment units, mobile homes, condominium units, and
townhouses, but not including hotel or motel living quarters.
   Solid waste collection. The collection of solid wastes, including garbage,
recyclables, and refuse, without regard to whether the collection is from trash
cans, roll-out carts, containerized service, trash collection, or any
combination of these services.
   Solid waste collection services. The collection of garbage, refuse,
recyclables, trash, or other solid waste items that are collected by the city
pursuant to the ordinances, rules, and regulations established in this chapter
or in rules and regulations adopted by the Public Works Director or City
Manager pursuant to authority in this chapter.
(Ord. No. 24-062, § 1, passed 11-14-2024)
SEC. 6-3-2 UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS OF REFUSE.
   (A)   No person shall throw, place, or deposit any garbage, refuse, or
recyclables of any kind, on or upon any of the public streets, sidewalks,
ground, and other public places within the city, unless it shall be placed or
deposited in a receptacle provided and maintained for that purpose and in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Any garbage, garbage bag,
refuse, or recyclables placed on the ground is considered a violation and a
threat to public health and safety. The property owner or resident could be
charged $50 for removal. The removal fee shall be added to the resident’s
monthly utility bill.
   (B)   No person shall throw, place, or deposit any of the above materials,
including old furniture, tires, appliances, and building materials into any
city-owned and -maintained drainage ditch.
   (C)   The city will not collect solid waste items that cannot be deposited
in a designated disposal site, including stumps, uncured paint, chemicals, oil
drums, rubbish cleared from vacant lots, logs more than six inches in diameter,
and petroleum, fuel oil, or chemical storage tanks.
   (D)   The city will not collect any building, renovation, or demolition
debris from any residence created by a contractor, resident, or property owner.
(Ord. No. 24-062, § 1, passed 11-14-2024)
SEC. 6-3-3 REMOVAL OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   No person other than those under the direction of the City Manager shall
haul away or remove any garbage, refuse, or recyclables set out for collection
at residential units or mixed-use complexes as in this chapter provided, except
by the written consent of the City Manager. Owners or occupants of all
nonresidential units are responsible for hauling, contracting for the hauling
of, or otherwise disposing of garbage, refuse, and recyclables in a lawful and
sanitary manner, and in all respects in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. No. 24-062, § 1, passed 11-14-2024)
SEC. 6-3-4 RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   All property owners, landlords, or tenants of residential dwellings
shall provide receptacles (roll-out carts/dumpsters) for all residential
garbage, refuse, and recyclables for removal by the city.
   (B)   Residential garbage, refuse, and recyclables shall be stored in roll-
out carts approved for collection by city equipment. Refuse and recyclable
containers shall not be located behind closed fences, inside closed structures,
under carports, on porches, or in any other inaccessible location when using
special services.
   (C)   The occupant of any residential dwelling unit must use an approved
roll-out cart for garbage and/or recyclables. The cart may be purchased from
the Public Works Department except that the occupant of a residential dwelling
unit may use a city approved roll-out cart purchased from a vendor other than
the Public Works Department for garbage and/or recyclables. The rollout cart
may be approved by the Director of Public Works or designee for use at the
resident’s dwelling unit. Roll-out carts used for garbage must be rolled out to
the curb before 6:00 a.m. on the day designated for solid waste collection
service.
   (D)   Public Works employees will leave all emptied carts or curbside
recyclable receptacles at or near the front yard property line.
   (E)   No person shall place receptacles for residential garbage, refuse, or
recyclables for removal by the city at curbside of a residential dwelling any
earlier than noon the day before the scheduled collection. No later than noon
of the day following scheduled collection, and at all times when not placed at
the curbside for collection in accordance with the provisions of this
subsection, receptacles must be removed from curbside and placed on a location
on the residential property which is outside of the street right-of-way or
easement and which is not located in the front yard of the property of the
residential dwelling. For the purpose of this subsection, the “front yard”
shall mean a yard extending across the full length of a lot from side lot line
to side lot line and lying between the abutting street right-of-way or easement
line and the building line. There is a front yard between each street which a
property abuts and the residential dwelling located upon the property.
   (F)   In addition, employees of the Public Works Department may relocate
roll-out carts that are in violation of this section. Curbside roll-out carts
in violation of this section may be relocated away from the curb to any
location on the property outside of the right-of-way by Public Works employees.
The Public Works employees will leave the roll-out carts in an area accessible
to the residents. This does not apply to special services residents.
   (G)   Any person, firm or corporation violating this section shall be liable
for a trash rollback service fee in the amount of $25 for any violation, except
the Public Works Director is authorized to issue one warning prior to a
resident being assessed the $25 trash rollback service fee to the resident’s
utility bill. The Public Works Director and the City Attorney are authorized to
apply the cost of the service fee to the resident’s utility bill.
(Ord. No. 24-062, § 1, passed 11-14-2024)
SEC. 6-3-5 INTERFERENCE WITH CONTENTS OF RECEPTACLES.
   No person shall disturb, remove from containers, or interfere with the
contents of any garbage, refuse, or recyclables set out for removal by the
city, unless by permission of the Public Works Director.
(Ord. No. 24-062, § 1, passed 11-14-2024)
SEC. 6-3-6 DUTIES OF PROPERTY OWNERS, LANDLORDS AND TENANTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of each property owner, landlord, or tenant to
see that all garbage, refuse, and recyclable containers, and the contents as in
this chapter provided for, are set out for collection at such a location and
time as may be assigned by the Public Works Director.
   (B)   All owners of real property within the city are required at all times
to remove therefrom all garbage, debris, refuse, and recyclables that pose a
public health or safety hazard.
(Ord. No. 24-062, § 1, passed 11-14-2024)
SEC. 6-3-7 TREE LIMBS, CUTTINGS, SHRUBBERY, AND BULKY ITEMS.
   (A)   Tree limbs, cuttings, shrubbery, and the like of more than one-half
load will be hauled at such time as trucks and personnel are available. Limbs,
cuttings, shrubbery, and the like must be cut in six-foot lengths or less and
placed directly behind the curb or the traveled portion of the street upon the
owner or tenant’s property in an accessible location for collection. Tree
limbs, cuttings, shrubbery, fine vegetation, debris, and junk shall be
separated from each other as follows for collection:
      (1)   Cuttings, shrubbery, and hedges shall be placed together at
curbside for collection. Limbs should be placed in separate piles at curbside
for collection.
      (2)   Fine vegetation such as leaves, grass, and pine straw shall be
placed together at the curbside for collection.
      (3)   All other junk, debris, or discarded furniture shall be placed
together at curbside for collection.
      (4)   No trash, limbs, shrubbery, cuttings, junk, roll-out carts, or
debris shall be placed in the gutter or on a public street.
   (B)   Any business contracted by a property owner to cut or trim trees and/
or shrubbery is required to haul these cuttings to the designated disposal
site.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to dump tree limbs, cuttings, leaves, shrubbery,
lawn clippings, junk, and the like into any city-owned or -maintained ditch.
   (D)   No person shall place junk, discarded furniture, or white goods at the
curbside of a residential dwelling for removal more than two days in advance of
the scheduled collection day.
(Ord. No. 24-062, § 1, passed 11-14-2024)  
SEC. 6-3-8 CARDBOARD TO BE FLATTENED FOR PICKUP SERVICE.
   Empty corrugated boxes, cartons, or containers shall be flattened and placed
inside the resident’s recycling container for collection. For large amounts of
cardboard, call the Public Works Department for collection. The Sanitation
Division shall not collect any corrugated box, carton, or container that has
not been flattened for recyclable collection.
(Ord. No. 24-062, § 1, passed 11-14-2024)
SEC. 6-3-9 RECEPTACLES; PLACEMENT PROHIBITED IN RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place any garbage, refuse, or
recyclable container of any kind within any portion of the right-of-way of any
street, thoroughfare, or other public way for any reason other than for pickup
by the Public Works Department as stated in this chapter.
(Ord. No. 24-062, § 1, passed 11-14-2024)
SEC. 6-3-10 COLLECTION OR STORAGE OF USED BEVERAGE CANS, BOTTLES OR CARTONS.
   Except as provided in section
6-3-6, no used beverage cans, bottles, or cartons may be collected or stored
outside in drums, cans, or any container other than authorized commercial
rainproof refuse containers, for a period of more than 24 hours, whether the
purpose of such collection or storage is for recycling or any other reason. Any
receptacle, other than an authorized commercial container, used for collecting
or storing such cans, bottles, or cartons shall have its contents emptied and
removed.
(Ord. No. 24-062, § 1, passed 11-14-2024)
SEC. 6-3-11 SPECIAL SERVICES.
   Individuals who are unable to roll out their city-approved roll-out cart to
the curb due to a medical condition may submit an application provided by the
Public Works Department to request special services. The application shall
require a physician to fill out a section of the application stating the
condition that prevents the applicant from rolling out the cart and the term of
the condition. The Public Works Director or designee shall approve or
disapprove all requests for special services. In considering a request, the
Public Works Director or designee shall consider if the application has been
fully completed including the physician’s statement section, and shall verify
the application and verify there are no other residents residing at the address
that can roll out the cart. If an application for special services is approved,
the applicant must purchase a city-approved roll-out cart to receive the
special services and allow the Public Works Department to install a special
services placard on the purchased cart. The approved applicant will be charged
the curbside fee. The Public Works Department collection crews will go to the
location in the backyard that is accessible to a two-wheeled cart, roll out the
cart to dump into the refuse truck, and return the cart to the designated
location. This service, if approved, is effective for the term noted by the
physician on the application form. This service is available only to single-
family and multi-family residents.
(Ord. No. 24-062, § 1, passed 11-14-2024)
ARTICLE B. CONTAINER POLICY
DIVISION 1. INDUSTRIAL, COMMERCIAL AND INSTITUTIONAL
SEC. 6-3-21 INDUSTRIAL BYPRODUCT WASTE.
   The Public Works Director may collect industrial byproduct waste to supplant
the safety of the public, life, and health. Otherwise, industrial byproduct
waste will not be accepted or collected for disposal by the city.
(Ord. No. 24-062, § 1, passed 11-14-2024)
SEC. 6-3-22 PICKUP SCHEDULES.
   Garbage, trash, and recyclables will be picked up from residential property
on a regular schedule as established by the Director of Public Works.
(Ord. No. 24-062, § 1, passed 11-14-2024)
SEC. 6-3-23 CONTAINERS; REQUIRED EQUAL TO NEED; CONCRETE PICKUP PLATFORM.
   Multi-family dwellings will be serviced by the city by a container-type
refuse truck; therefore, these locations will be required to store their
garbage, trash, or other waste in container sizes of four, six, or eight cubic
yards equivalent to their needs. Multi-family dwellings with existing three or
four cubic yard dumpsters will be allowed to be serviced with existing three or
four cubic yards dumpsters if they are compatible with front-loader refuse
trucks. Compactors or roll-out carts are an option in accordance with the
provisions of subsections (C) and (D) of section 6-3-31. All multi-family
dwellings will be required to install their own concrete platform for these
containers. All multi-family dwellings will be required to install recycling
centers with the required number of 96-gallon containers except that the city
will install recycling centers at multi-family dwellings approved for
construction prior to July 1, 2010. The recycling centers must have city-
standard fencing, concrete pads, signage, and containers. Any request for an
alternative design must be approved by the Director of Public Works or
designee. The location of these containers will be chosen with regard to the
best interest of public safety and to where the city refuse trucks can service
them with the least maneuvering. Final approval as to the location will be made
by the Director of Public Works or designee.
(Ord. No. 24-062, § 1, passed 11-14-2024)
SEC. 6-3-24 CONTAINERS; DESIGN AND CAPACITY.
   Containers will be of an approved design, as provided by the Public Works
Department, and of four, six, or eight cubic yards capacity. Containers must be
made of approved materials used for solid waste dumpsters. The lid must be
maintained by the owner in a manner such that the lid opens and closes easily.
Recycling containers shall be city-approved 96-gallon roll-out containers
designed for dumping by city semi-automated refuse trucks.
(Ord. No. 24-062, § 1, passed 11-14-2024)
SEC. 6-3-25 CONTAINERS; PURCHASE AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It will be the responsibility of the owner to make the original
purchase of containers. It includes a 90-day warranty if purchased from the
city.
   (B)   The city will repair any container with a city warranty that is
damaged by its refuse trucks and/or employees. It shall be the responsibility
of the owner to bear all costs of replacement or repairs of siding, bottoms,
lids, and necessary patching of any holes developing in such containers.
   (C)   The city will be responsible for providing maintenance of all
recycling centers with city-standard fencing, concrete pads, signage, and
containers after the recycling center is approved for service by the city. If
alternative fencing or structures are utilized, the city will not be
responsible for the maintenance of the alternative fencing or structure. If
vegetation is used for the screening requirement in lieu of fencing, the city
will not be responsible for the maintenance or replacement of the vegetation.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (A) and (B), owners of
multi-family units may elect to utilize a compactor in lieu of meeting the
requirements of subsection (A) or (B) above if approved by the Director of
Public Works or designee. The compactor will receive solid waste collection
service from the city or a company contracted by the city. The ratio of
compaction to uncompacted garbage shall be submitted as a part of the request
for approval of a compactor. The compactor must be sized to be equivalent to
one yard of uncompacted garbage dumpster space per four units. The area inside
the compactor enclosure must be kept clean and without safety hazards. To be
considered for approval by the Director of Public Works or designee for a
compactor, the developer or owner shall submit the following:
      (1)   Plan for how residents will dispose of garbage in the event of
compactor failure;
      (2)   Specifications for compactor including compaction ratio;
      (3)   Site location plan for compactor;
      (4)   Access plan for servicing compactor;
      (5)   Compactor access plan for residents meeting all applicable
accessibility requirements;
      (6)   Plan for a limitation on the time periods when the compactor will
be operational for the purpose of limiting potential noise disturbance; and
      (7)   Recycling plan for the multi-family complex.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (A) through (D) above,
the City Council may authorize tests, trials, or experimental arrangements for
solid waste collection.
(Ord. No. 24-062, § 1, passed 11-14-2024)
DIVISION 2. CONDOMINIUMS AND MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS
SEC. 6-3-31 DEVELOPERS AND OWNERS TO PROVIDE CONTAINERS; CONTAINER CAPACITY
REQUIRED.
   (A)   Developers and owners of multi-family dwellings, or duplexes that have
ten or more units, must provide containers as follows:
      (1)   Three to 24 living units: one six-cubic yard container;
      (2)   More than 24 living units: one six-cubic yard container for each 24
units or fraction thereof; and
      (3)   Recycling centers must be constructed with a minimum ratio of one
96-gallon container for each 20 units or any fraction thereof. A minimum of one
96-gallon container for recycling is required for any complex with less than 20
units.
   (B)   Owners and developers of mobile home parks, as defined in Title 9,
Chapter 4 of the City Code with ten or more mobile homes, must provide
containers on the same ratio of units to containers as prescribed in subsection
(A) above.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (A) and (B), developers
and owners of multi-family units, duplexes, or mobile home parks may elect to
provide each unit with roll-out carts in lieu of meeting the requirements of
subsection (A) or (B) above. If roll-out carts are used under the election
provided by this subsection, the carts and the proposed site plan for locating
carts must be approved by the Director of Public Works. The Director shall
consider the accessibility of the proposed locations, the protection of public
health, and the compatibility of the carts with city collection equipment when
approving or disapproving plans for cart use. If roll-out carts are approved by
the Director of Public Works, curbside recycling will be collected in 64- or
96-gallon city-approved roll-out carts.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (A) through (C) above,
the City Council may authorize tests, trials, or experimental arrangements for
solid waste collection.
(Ord. No. 24-062, § 1, passed 11-14-2024)
SEC. 6-3-32 LOCATION OF CONTAINERS AND COMPACTORS; INCLUSION IN SITE PLAN.
   Developers of condominiums and multi-family dwelling developments, including
such developments which also have duplex houses, will include in the site plan
the location for containers, compactors, and recycling centers to be serviced
by the city for approval by the Director of Public Works or designee.
Containers, compactors, and recycling centers shall be provided by the
developer on site before a certificate of occupancy for the structure shall be
issued by the city.
(Ord. No. 24-062, § 1, passed 11-14-2024)
SEC. 6-3-33 LOCATION OF CONTAINERS AND COMPACTORS; PICKUP ACCESSIBILITY.
   Containers, compactors, and recycling centers must be located for
accessibility by Sanitation Division or city contractor pickup equipment.
(Ord. No. 24-062, § 1, passed 11-14-2024)
SEC. 6-3-34 PURCHASE AND MAINTENANCE OF CONTAINERS AND COMPACTORS.
   (A)   It will be the responsibility of the owner to purchase containers or
compactors and to maintain and repair them except that the city will repair any
container or compactor damaged by its refuse trucks and/or employees.
Specifically, it shall be the responsibility of the owner to bear all costs of
replacement of siding, bottoms, and lids, and necessary patching of any holes
developing in the containers. It shall be the responsibility of the owner to
maintain the container or compactor in a serviceable condition and to make
necessary repair or replacement of the container or compactor within seven days
of notice of needed repair.
   (B)   The city will be responsible for maintaining all recycling centers
with city-standard fencing, concrete pads, signage, and containers after the
recycling center is approved for service by the city. If alternative fencing or
structures are utilized, the city will not be responsible for the maintenance
of alternative fencing or structures. If vegetation is used for screening in
lieu of fencing, the city will not be responsible for maintenance or
replacement of vegetation.
(Ord. No. 24-062, § 1, passed 11-14-2024)
SEC. 6-3-35 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF RECEPTACLE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, or allow to be placed, any
garbage or refuse in any receptacle, in any recycling center, at any refuse
collection point, or in any refuse container used in the commercial or multi-
family garbage collection service unless the garbage or refuse is from the
premise(s) served by such container or from the premise(s) at which the
receptacle is located. It shall also be unlawful for any person to utilize a
city-owned dumpster, recycling center, or trash receptacle as a means to
dispose of garbage or refuse from the premises of a commercial or industrial
business. Any unauthorized use of a receptacle shall subject the offender(s) to
a civil penalty in the amount of $50, and the Public Works Department is
authorized to issue citations.
(Ord. No. 24-062, § 1, passed 11-14-2024)
SEC. 6-3-36 COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL REFUSE COLLECTION.
   It shall be the responsibility of all commercial/industrial businesses to
provide refuse collection and disposal service equivalent to their needs. It
shall also be the responsibility of each business to contract with an approved
hauler of their choice for service arrangements. Any firm or corporation
violating this section shall be liable for a civil penalty in the amount of
$50. Each day’s continuing violation shall constitute a separate offense. The
Public Works Director and the City Attorney are authorized to pursue the
collection and enforcement of civil penalties through the courts of North
Carolina.
(Ord. No. 24-062, § 1, passed 11-14-2024)
ARTICLE C. FEES AND CHARGES FOR SOLID WASTE COLLECTION SERVICES
SEC. 6-3-41 FEES AND CHARGES FOR SOLID WASTE COLLECTION SERVICES.
   (A)   The person or organization in whose name utility service is listed
shall be liable for, and shall pay, the charges for solid waste collection
service provided for under this article.
   (B)   All residential units shall be charged a monthly fee as established in
the city Manual of Fees.
   (C)   The monthly charge for solid waste collection service shall be billed
by the Greenville Utilities Commission to each residential unit on a monthly
basis and shall be payable with utility charges within the time limit fixed for
the payment of utility bills by the Greenville Utilities Commission.
   (D)   The monthly fee for solid waste collection service for a residential
unit shall accrue on the first day of the individual billing cycle for that
unit under the billing system of the Greenville Utilities Commission. For
billing cycles between 26 days and 35 days inclusive, charges will not be
prorated. For billing cycles of 25 days or less and for billing cycles of 36
days and above, charges shall be prorated on a daily basis of one-thirtieth of
the normal monthly charge.
   (E)   Nonresidential units and mixed-use units shall be responsible for
obtaining solid waste collection services from private haulers or making other
lawful and satisfactory arrangements for disposal of solid wastes.
   (F)   Residential units owned, utilized, or occupied by any federal, state,
or local governmental body, institution, or agency located wholly or partially
in the city may receive an exemption from the payment of fees and charges for
solid waste collection upon satisfactory showing to the City Manager that the
governmental body, institution, or agency can remove and dispose of all solid
waste at the subject location in a safe and sanitary manner.
   (G)   The City Manager and Public Works Director are authorized to
establish, and to change as needed, whatever rules, regulations,
interpretations, and policies are necessary to implement and effectively
administer the collection and enforcement of the fees and charges in this
article. In establishing or amending the rules, regulations, interpretations,
and policies authorized by this subsection, the City Manager and Public Works
Director shall be guided by the following principles:
      (1)   Rules, regulations, interpretations, and policies shall be
consistent with applicable state, federal, and local law;
      (2)   Rules, regulations, interpretations, and policies shall be
consistent with generally accepted accounting principles, effective management
oversight and control, and efficient operation; and
      (3)   Rules, regulations, interpretations, and policies shall not allow
termination of electric, water, sewer, or gas service.
   (H)   In addition to the fee established by the City of Greenville Manual of
Fees pursuant to subsection (B) of this section, residential units and non-
residential units shall be charged a fee as established in the City of
Greenville Manual of Fees for any solid waste collection services provided to
the unit by the city in addition to the regular solid waste collection service
provided to the unit by the city. The charge for such additional solid waste
collection service shall be billed by the Greenville Utilities Commission to
the unit and shall be payable with utility charges within the time limit fixed
for the payment of utility bills by the Greenville Utilities Commission. In the
event the unit does not have an active utility account, the charge for such
additional solid waste collection service shall be billed by the city to the
property owner and shall be payable within 15 days of the placement of the bill
in the mail.
   (I)   The Director of Public Works or designee shall hear and decide any
disputes regarding administration of the trash cart rollback service fee set
forth in this chapter. The Director of Public Works may release or refund fees
for service charged or collected pursuant to section 6-3-4(G) and in any other
circumstances as defined by rules, regulations, interpretations, and policies
adopted by the City Manager pursuant to authority granted by section 6-3-41(G).
(Ord. No. 24-062, § 1, passed 11-14-2024)
SEC. 6-3-42 PRESUMPTION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   It is presumed that all residential units in the city receive service.
This presumption may be rebutted, and the fee for service released or refunded
in accordance with rules, regulations, interpretations, and policies
established by the City Manager.
   (B)   The Director of Public Works of the city, or a designee, shall hear
and decide appeals on presumption of service questions. The Director of Public
Works may release or refund fees for service charged or collected under
circumstances described in subsection (A) of this section, and in other
circumstances as defined by rules, regulations, interpretations, and policies
adopted by the City Manager pursuant to authority granted by section
6-3-41(G) of this article.
(Ord. No. 24-062, § 1, passed 11-14-2024)
SEC. 6-3-43 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any willful and knowing refusal to pay fees assessed for solid waste
collection services shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in the amount
of $50. It is presumed that payment of the total utility bill, minus the amount
of the solid waste collection fee, is a willful and knowing refusal to pay.
   (B)   Unpaid accounts for fees or charges under this article may be enforced
by appropriate civil actions for the collection of amounts due, or by other
appropriate relief.
   (C)   Unpaid solid waste collection fees shall be included in the fees and
charges which must be repaid before utility service is resumed in those cases
where failure to pay utility charges has resulted in discontinuance of utility
service.
(Ord. No. 24-062, § 1, passed 11-14-2024)
CHAPTER 4: CEMETERIES
Section
   
6-4-1   Applicability of chapter
   
6-4-2   Purchase of cemetery lots
   
6-4-3   Resale of cemetery lots
   
6-4-4   Ownership of cemetery lots
   
6-4-5   Opening and closing of graves
   
6-4-6   Cremations
   
6-4-7   Interments
   
6-4-8   Disinterments
   
6-4-9   Markers, monuments and other memorials
   
6-4-10   Crypts, mausoleums or other structures
   
6-4-11   Trees, shrubs, flowers and other plants
   
6-4-12   Care and improvements
   
6-4-13   Hours of operation
   
6-4-14   Trespassing
   
6-4-15   Using as a shortcut
   
6-4-16   Deposit of filth
   
6-4-17   Damaging fences
   
6-4-18   Alcoholic beverages and other controlled substances prohibited
   
6-4-19   Animals
   
6-4-20   Disturbing the peace
   
6-4-21   Immoral acts
   
6-4-22   Vehicles; use of roadways required; speed limit
   
6-4-23   Removal of unused building materials
   
6-4-24   City to restore property in case of violation
   
6-4-25   Use of contractors by city
   
6-4-26   Schedule of charges
   
6-4-27   Compliance with chapter; penalty
Cross-reference:
   Cemetery Purchase Fund, see Related Local Laws, §§
8-1,
8-2
   Removal of graves under Council’s authority, see Related Local Laws, §§
1-1 et seq.
Editor’s note:
   Chapter 4 dealing with cemeteries dated 1971 was totally rewritten by Ord.
No. 04-52 dated May 13, 2004. Chapter 4 dealing with cemeteries was amended by
Ord. No. 08-71 dated June 12, 2008, removing the Financial Services Department
and City Clerk’s office from the departments providing cemetery service.
Statutory reference:
   Establishment and operation of cemeteries, see G.S. 160A-341
   Regulation of city cemeteries, see G.S. 160A-348
SEC. 6-4-1 APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER.
   All lots within city-owned or controlled cemeteries shall be subject to and
regulated by this chapter.
(Ord. 04-52, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 6-4-2 PURCHASE OF CEMETERY LOTS.
   (A)   Lots shall be purchased from the Public Works Department.
   (B)   A deed signed by the Mayor and attested by the City Clerk and sealed
with the legal seal of the city shall be mailed to the address of the
purchaser.
   (C)   The price paid for a cemetery lot shall be based on the residency of
the purchaser. This price shall be set by City Council and maintained on file
in the City Clerk’s office as a part of the Manual of Fees. A resident of the
city is one who has established permanent residence in the corporate limits of
the city.
(Ord. 04-52, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 6-4-3 RESALE OF CEMETERY LOTS.
   (A)   An owner of a lot in a city-owned or controlled cemetery may sell his
or her lot to another individual only upon approval of the Public Works
Director or designee and for no more than the original purchase price of the
lot plus the administrative fee set forth in the Manual of Fees. A notarized
written request must be made by the lot owner or his or her heirs to the Public
Works Director or designee and an administrative fee paid as set forth in the
Manual of Fees.
   (B)   No lots that have been used may be sold.
(Ord. 04-52, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 6-4-4 OWNERSHIP OF CEMETERY LOTS.
   (A)   No person will be recognized as owner of a lot unless his or her name
appears on the records located at the Public Works Department.
   (B)    In all deeds of conveyance by the city to any person for any lot in
the city-owned or controlled cemeteries, the following provision shall be
included as a covenant running with the land:
“This conveyance is made subject to the provisions of Title 6, Chapter 4 of the
Greenville City Code, providing rules and regulations for the control of the
city’s cemeteries and penalties for the violation thereof. The grantee herein,
his or her heirs and assigns agree that, upon the breach of any such provision,
the title to the property shall revert to the city.”
(Ord. 04-52, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 6-4-5 OPENING AND CLOSING OF GRAVES.
   (A)   All graves in city-owned or controlled cemeteries shall be opened and
closed by city employees or contractors employed by the city, including the
burial of cremated remains and bodies entombed in crypts and mausoleums.
   (B)   The funeral home representative requesting the opening and closing of
a grave shall provide the Public Works Department an opening and closing
request form along with the fee established by City Council and maintained on
file in the City Clerk’s office as a part of the Manual of Fees. This form is
provided by the city and must be completed and signed by the funeral home
representative. When the city cemetery staff has to wait to close a grave
beyond the time specified on the opening and closing request form, a wait time
fee will be assessed to the funeral provider in accordance with the Manual of
Fees.
   (C)   The funeral home representative requesting the opening and closing of
a grave on a site with more than one grave shall be responsible for scheduling
a meeting with a Public Works official to determine which grave to have open.
   (D)   All graves in city-owned or controlled cemeteries shall be at least
four feet in depth from grade.
   (E)   No grave excavated in the city-owned or controlled cemetery shall
encroach on any adjacent lot.
   (F)   The Public Works Director of the city is authorized to establish
standards to provide for the performance of the service of opening and closing
of graves, niches, mausoleums or crypts.
   (G)   The Public Works Director or designee shall be responsible for the
collection of fees for the opening and closing of graves.
(Ord. 04-52, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 6-4-6 CREMATIONS.
   (A)   Prior to the placement of any cremated remains in a city-owned or
controlled cemetery, an opening and closing of grave permit must be secured
from the Public Works Department and a fee paid as established in the Manual of
Fees.
   (B)   The burial or placement cremated remains shall be performed by city
employees or contractors employed by the city.
   (C)    Cremations shall have at least 18 inches of cover.
   (D)   Human remains that are cremated must be secured in a hard plastic urn
or a type approved by the Building and Grounds Superintendent or his or her
designee which can be sealed or any other urn that is equal or better.
(Ord. 04-52, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 6-4-7 INTERMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall bury or entomb any human body or cremation urn in a
city-owned or controlled cemetery without first securing an opening and closing
of grave permit from the Public Works Department and paying a fee established
in the Manual of Fees.
   (B)   Only human remains may be buried or placed on city-owned or controlled
cemetery properties.
   (C)   The usage of each burial lot or crypt shall be limited to the
interment of one human body or no more than two cremation urns. The usage of
each niche shall be limited to the interment of one hard plastic urn.
   (D)   No interment shall be made in city-owned or controlled cemeteries
without necessary documentation from a certified funeral director or
crematorium.
   (E)   The uppermost part of a burial vault shall be a minimum of 18 inches
below the ground surface.
   (F)   With the exception of cremated remains which are addressed in section
6-4-6 of this Code, all burials in all city-owned or controlled cemeteries
shall utilize either concrete grave liners or below-ground vaults with a
minimum of 18 inches of backfill over the top of the liner or vault.
(Ord. 04-52, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 6-4-8 DISINTERMENTS.
   (A)   No body or remains shall be disinterred in city-owned or controlled
cemeteries without lawful authority.
   (B)    No disinterment shall be made in city-owned or controlled cemeteries
without necessary documentation from a certified funeral director.
   (C)    Unless otherwise required by a court order, all disinterments shall
be performed by city cemetery staff or a contractor employed by the city at the
expense of the lot owner and only upon written consent of the lot owner or his
or her heirs (if deceased), the city and the nearest living relative or
relatives of the person or persons whose remains are to be disinterred from one
location to another or from other cemeteries.
   (D)    Remains removed from other cemeteries must be accompanied by the
proper papers as required by state law.
(Ord. 04-52, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 6-4-9 MARKERS, MONUMENTS AND OTHER MEMORIALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect any marker, monument or
other memorial in the city-owned or controlled cemeteries without first
obtaining a permit from the Public Works Department and paying the appropriate
fee as listed in the Manual of Fees. The permit shall be obtained within ten
working days of the actual installation. Failure to obtain the permit prior to
installation shall subject the contractor responsible for the work to an
additional administrative fee in the same amount as the permit fee.
   (B)   Government markers are allowed in city-owned or controlled cemeteries.
A completed form supplied by the Veterans Administration is to be provided to
the Public Works Department in addition to the permit fee established in the
Manual of Fees. The Public Works Director or his or her designee is authorized
to sign necessary government forms regarding government markers.
   (C)   One central or family monument and one flush foot marker per grave
shall be allowed on a family lot in city-owned or operated cemeteries. When a
monument is not desired by the family, one head or foot marker per grave may be
authorized.
   (D)   When a head or foot marker is used in place of a monument, it shall
not exceed two feet in length and one foot in width.
   (E)   Foundations for memorials and monuments shall be constructed in
accordance with uniform standards and specifications as established by the
Public Works Director.
   (F)   Should a monument or marker in the city-owned or controlled cemeteries
at any time become unsafe, unsightly or in need of repair or resetting, the
Building and Grounds Superintendent or his or her designee shall so notify the
owner of the lot upon which the condition exists of any persons having an
interest in such lot and shall request the person to make the needed repairs
under the supervision of the Building and Grounds Superintendent or his or her
designee; and the person shall be required to make the repairs, under the
direction of the Building and Grounds Superintendent or his or her designee.
The Building and Grounds Superintendent or his or her designee shall make
necessary improvements to eliminate unsafe conditions in city cemeteries until
the lot owner may be contacted. In the event the Building and Grounds
Superintendent or his or her designee is unsuccessful at locating the lot
owner, the city will make necessary temporary repairs at its discretion to
alleviate the unsafe condition.
   (G)    It shall be unlawful for any person to remove any marker or monument
which may have been erected at any grave or to deface, injure or destroy any
such marker or monument in any manner.
   (H)    The city shall not be held liable for default of a contract agreement
between the lot owner and the memorial contractor.
   (I)    The city shall not be responsible for replacing or restoring any
monuments or markers.
(Ord. 04-52, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 6-4-10 CRYPTS, MAUSOLEUMS OR OTHER STRUCTURES.
   (A)    No private crypt, mausoleum, building or other structure of any kind
shall be erected on any lot within Greenwood, Cherryhill or Brownhill
Cemeteries without approval of the Public Works Director or his or her
designee, a permit from the Public Works Department, and payment of a fee in
accordance with the Manual of Fees. No above-ground mausoleums shall be allowed
at Homestead Memorial Gardens.
   (B)    For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      Crypt. A burial chamber wholly or partly underground.
      Mausoleum. An above-ground burial vault. The overall height of the above-
ground burial vault shall not exceed two crypts in height, nor shall it exceed
108 inches from the ground level measured at the center of the structure.
   (C)   Private crypts and mausoleums shall be installed in accordance with
the standards and specifications established by the Public Works Director.
   (D)    Should any mausoleum or crypt in the city-owned or controlled
cemeteries at any time become unsafe, unsightly or in need of repair or
resetting, the Building and Grounds Superintendent or his or her designee shall
so notify the owner of the lot upon which the condition exists and shall
request the person to make the needed repairs under the supervision of the
Building and Grounds Superintendent or his or her designee; and the person
shall be required to make the repairs, under the direction of the Building and
Grounds Superintendent or his or her designee. The Building and Grounds
Superintendent or his or her designee shall make necessary improvements to
eliminate unsafe conditions in city cemeteries until the lot owner may be
contacted. In the event the lot owner is unable to be contacted, the city will
make necessary temporary repairs at its discretion to alleviate the unsafe
condition.
   (E)   The city shall not be responsible for replacing or restoring any
private mausoleums, crypts or other structures.
(Ord. 04-52, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 6-4-11 TREES, SHRUBS, FLOWERS AND OTHER PLANTS.
   (A)    It shall be unlawful for any person to plant, deface, trim, prune,
remove, disturb, injure or destroy any tree, shrub, flower or other plant in
the city-owned or controlled cemeteries, whether on that person’s lot or not,
except in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)    The city reserves the right to plant trees and shrubs in accordance
with the general plan for landscape work on any part of the city-owned or
controlled cemeteries that is desirable.
   (C)   Individual tree, flower and shrub planting is not allowed in any city-
owned or controlled cemetery.
   (D)    Should any tree or shrub become objectionable, for any reason
whatsoever, the city reserves the right to remove the tree or shrub at its
discretion.
   (E)    The Building and Grounds Superintendent or his or her designee shall
have the authority to remove floral designs, flowers, plants and containers
from the lots when, in his or her judgment, they become faded and unsightly and
distract from the general appearance.
   (F)    Cut flowers, potted plants, memorial wreaths, sprays, baskets or
vases may be placed on graves at any time, but must be placed at the headstone.
   (G)    Funeral designs, floral pieces and cut flowers shall be removed as
soon as they become unsightly.
   (H)   All Christmas floral arrangements are to be removed by March 1. All
Easter arrangements are to be removed by June 1.
   (I)    The city shall not be responsible for flower arrangements or other
plants that are lost, damaged or stolen.
   (J)    No florist, funeral home or person other than members of the family
of persons buried on the lot shall remove any flowers, floral designs, plants
or containers from any lot without first obtaining permission from the Building
and Grounds Superintendent or his or her designee.
(Ord. 04-52, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 6-4-12 CARE AND IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)    General maintenance provided by the city shall consist of cutting the
grass when necessary, filling in graves when sunken, resodding and otherwise
beautifying and keeping the lots neat, clean, safe and in good order.
   (B)    All care and improvements of lots, including all grading and
landscaping shall be done by cemetery employees of the city or contractors
employed by the city.
   (C)    No lot or grave shall be defined by fence, railing, coping or edge.
   (D)    Boxes, shells, toys, wire screens, arbors, trellises, chairs, benches
and objects of similar nature of any kind whatsoever, are not permitted on any
lot or grave.
   (E)    No lot or grave shall be planted or seeded except by city cemetery
personnel or by contractors employed by the city.
   (F)    The city shall not be responsible for the loss, damage or destruction
of any article left on cemetery lots.
(Ord. 04-52, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 6-4-13 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   All cemetery gates are open daily during daylight hours.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than duly constituted
officers of the law while engaged in the prosecution of their duties as such,
to enter the city’s cemeteries in the nighttime between one hour after sunset
and one hour before sunrise without prior authority to do so from the Director
of Public Works or his or her designee.
(Ord. 04-52, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 6-4-14 TRESPASSING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to trespass within the city-owned
or controlled cemeteries.
   (B)   Visitors must keep to the walks and drives and must not cross over or
otherwise trespass on any lot other than their own.
(Ord. 04-52, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 6-4-15 USING AS A SHORTCUT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, either on foot or with vehicle, to
enter, use, cross or recross any portion of the city-owned or controlled
cemeteries for the purpose of using a cemetery as a way of ingress or egress to
or from other property adjacent thereto.
(Ord. 04-52, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 6-4-16 DEPOSIT OF FILTH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or cause to be deposited any
filth or unclean or offensive substances in any city controlled or owned
cemetery.
(Ord. 04-52, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 6-4-17 DAMAGING FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to break or damage the fences around any
cemetery.
(Ord. 04-52, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 6-4-18 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND OTHER CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED.
   No alcoholic beverages or other controlled substances are permitted in city-
owned or controlled cemeteries and no consumption or use of such shall be
allowed (except during any religious services conducted by ordained clergy when
sacramental wine may be used).
(Ord. 04-52, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 6-4-19 ANIMALS.
   Animals are allowed in city-owned or controlled cemeteries if the owner has
control of the animal at all times by leash. All animal excrement must be
removed immediately and disposed of properly.
(Ord. 04-52, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 6-4-20 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   No person shall disturb the quiet, repose and good order of any city-owned
or controlled cemetery.
(Ord. 04-52, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 6-4-21 IMMORAL ACTS.
   No person shall commit any immoral act in any city-owned or controlled
cemetery.
(Ord. 04-52, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 6-4-22 VEHICLES; USE OF ROADWAYS REQUIRED; SPEED LIMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle within a
city-owned or controlled cemetery except upon the roadways and at a rate of
speed not in excess of 15 miles per hour.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person driving a vehicle to enter any
city-owned or controlled cemetery except for the purpose of attending funerals,
visiting graves or some other lawful mission.
(Ord. 04-52, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 6-4-23 REMOVAL OF UNUSED BUILDING MATERIALS.
   All materials carried within the city-owned or controlled cemeteries and not
used in the erection of monuments, markers or other lawful structures
authorized herein shall be promptly removed therefrom by the owner of the lot
upon which such monument, marker or other structure shall be located.
(Ord. 04-52, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 6-4-24 CITY TO RESTORE PROPERTY IN CASE OF VIOLATION.
   In the event of any violation of the provisions of this chapter, the city
shall have authority to restore the property to its condition as authorized
herein.
(Ord. 04-52, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 6-4-25 USE OF CONTRACTORS BY CITY.
   The city may contract with individuals or companies to perform services
relating to city-owned or controlled cemeteries.
(Ord. 04-52, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 6-4-26 SCHEDULE OF CHARGES.
   The schedule of fees and charges for graves and services in city-owned and
controlled cemeteries shall be as fixed in the Manual of Fees.
(Ord. 04-52, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 6-4-27 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER; PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions of this
chapter. Any violation of this chapter shall subject the offender to a civil
penalty in the amount of $50. In addition to or in lieu of the civil penalty
remedy, a violation of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a fine of $50.
(Ord. 04-52, passed 5-13-2004; Ord. No. 08-71, §§ 1-10, passed 6-12-2008)
CHAPTER 5: TREES
Section
Article A. Urban Trees
   
6-5-1   Purpose and intent
   
6-5-2   Jurisdiction
   
6-5-3   Definitions
   
6-5-4   City Arborist; position created
   
6-5-5   Same; duties and powers
   
6-5-6   Planting, maintenance and removal of trees; permit required
   
6-5-7   Emergencies
   
6-5-8   Injuring trees or shrubbery in public places
   
6-5-9   Obstruction; trees trimmed
   
6-5-10   Authority to treat or remove trees or shrubbery on public and private
grounds
   
6-5-11   Registration of businesses which prune, trim or treat trees
   
6-5-12   Interference with the City Arborist
   
6-5-13   Punishment for violations
   
6-5-14   Appeals
Article B. Tree Protection Prior to Development
   
6-5-21   Purpose and intent
   
6-5-22   Applicability
   
6-5-23   Perimeter buffer zones
   
6-5-24   Exemptions
   
6-5-25   Maximum size of perimeter buffer zone
   
6-5-26   Tree survey
   
6-5-27   Denial of building permit and disapproval of plan
   
6-5-28   Penalties for violation
   
6-5-29   Enforcement and appeals
ARTICLE A. URBAN TREES
SEC. 6-5-1 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this article is to regulate and control the planting,
maintenance and removal of trees and shrubs on public lands; to encourage the
protection of existing trees within the city; to improve the environment and
air quality through protection of trees, and to establish standard
arboricultural specifications and practices to be used for the protection of
existing and future trees in the city.
(Ord. No. 05-40, passed 4-14-2005)
SEC. 6-5-2 JURISDICTION.
   This article shall govern all tree and shrub planting, maintenance and
removal in the public right-of-way, parkways and other city-owned and/or
maintained property; planting and maintenance of trees and tree islands within
open off-street parking areas owned and operated by the city; and the pruning,
treating and removal of trees which endanger public safety within the corporate
limits of the city, as now or hereafter established.
(Ord. No. 05-40, passed 4-14-2005)
SEC. 6-5-3 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
City Arborist. The person appointed or employed by the City Manager who,
through formal education or practical experience in urban forestry,
arboriculture, horticulture or related field, is capable of administering a
complete urban landscape management program.
Parkways. All public parks owned and/or maintained by the city.
Person. Any agency of the city or representative thereof, any firm or
corporation or representative thereof or any private citizen of the city.
Public right-of-way or public area. Land upon which the city has the right to
construct a street, sidewalk, bicycle path, use for public utilities or
landscape with plants, or to carry out any other public purpose.
Public utility company.  A railroad company, pipeline company, gas company,
electric power company, telephone company, cable television company, or any
other company that performs a public service and is regulated by a public
authority such as but not limited to the North Carolina Utilities Commission,
or the city as franchisor.
Tree permit. Consent given in writing by the City Arborist to a person, firm or
agency, public or private, to plant, maintain, alter or remove any tree or to
do anything that would affect that city-owned or controlled tree, including
cutting or filling the soil around the roots or allowing a toxic pollutant to
injure the tree.
(Ord. No. 05-40, passed 4-14-2005)
SEC. 6-5-4 CITY ARBORIST; POSITION CREATED.
   The City Manager or his or her designee shall have the authority to appoint
an existing city position or employee as City Arborist or, with the permission
of the City Council, create a new position. The City Manager or his or her
designee shall be responsible for the assignment of duties and responsibilities
for the City Arborist.
(Ord. No. 05-40, passed 4-14-2005)
SEC. 6-5-5 SAME; DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   General duties. The City Arborist shall have the authority to enforce
the rules and regulations governing the planting, maintenance, removal,
fertilization, pruning and bracing of trees on public rights-of-way, parkways
and other city-owned property, the planting and maintenance of trees and tree
islands within city-owned open off-street parking areas, make recommendations
concerning the pruning, treating and removal of trees on private property which
endanger public safety and concerning the other provisions of this article.
   (B)   Specific duties. It shall be the duty of the City Arborist to plan for
a city tree program which should include:
      (1)   Regulating the planting, maintenance and removal of trees in the
public rights-of-way, parkways or other city-owned land; planting and
maintenance of trees and tree islands within open off-street parking areas
owned and operated by the city; and the pruning, treating and removal of trees
which endanger public safety;
      (2)   Formulating a comprehensive master street tree plan for the city,
which shall include planting and/or preservation of street trees on undeveloped
rights-of-way prior to street construction;
      (3)   Determining tree planting priorities;
      (4)   Preparing a set of arboricultural specifications and standards of
practice, including but not limited to construction standards, planting and
maintenance details and costs and benefits of trees under city jurisdiction;
      (5)   Instituting a tree education program for the public that includes
proper arboricultural and horticultural practices, and the economic/public
health benefits of trees;
      (6)   Preparing an approved tree and shrub list for the city which shall
govern the type and species of trees which may be planted in public rights-of-
way, parkways and other city-owned property and in open off-street parking
areas owned and operated by the city;
      (7)   Conducting a tree and landscape inventory and analysis;
      (8)   Advising other departments of the city and all other persons, firms
or corporations, now or hereafter engaged in the business of tree planting,
maintenance or removal, on all projects that would affect trees under city
jurisdiction;
      (9)   Drafting regulations protecting trees on property owned by the
city;
      (10)   Issuing tree permits and making inspections thereof; and
      (11)   Advising citizens of the city, upon request, of proper methods of
planting, pruning and maintaining trees and shrubs on private property.
   (C)   Powers. The City Arborist shall have the power and authority to issue
permits for any planting, maintenance or removal of trees in any public area of
the city, in open off-street parking lots owned or operated by the city and for
the pruning, treating or removal of trees which endanger public safety. The
City Arborist shall have the authority to attach reasonable conditions to these
permits and to grant or deny them. The City Arborist shall also have the power
to enforce the provisions of this article, as provided by law.
(Ord. No. 05-40, passed 4-14-2005)
SEC. 6-5-6 PLANTING, MAINTENANCE AND REMOVAL OF TREES; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person desiring for any lawful purpose to fertilize, remove,
destroy, cut, severely prune (including the root system), treat with a view to
its preservation from disease or insects or otherwise disturb any tree or shrub
in or upon any public right-of-way, public area or open city-owned off-street
parking area shall first obtain a written permit, hereinafter provided for, on
forms furnished by the City Arborist. Any work performed under the permit must
be done in strict accordance with the conditions of the permit and the
arboricultural specifications and standards of practice adopted by the City
Arborist.
   (B)   Any person desiring to plant a tree or shrubbery upon any public
right-of-way or public area or open off-street parking area owned or operated
by the city shall obtain a permit from the City Arborist.
   (C)   (1)   When a permit is given by the City Arborist to a telephone,
telegraph, electric power, natural gas or other public service corporation or
utility to trim or perform other operations affecting trees on public areas and
rights-of-way and open off-street parking areas, pursuant to this article, the
amount of such trimming or extent of other operations shall be limited by the
actual necessities of the service of the company or utility, as determined by
consultation with the City Arborist; and the work shall be done in a neat and
workmanlike manner and according to the specifications of the City Arborist.
      (2)   A public utility may obtain a master permit for continual work for
a period of no longer than one year from the date of issuance. Applications for
a master permit shall include a description of the treatment, excavation,
trenching or maintenance to be carried out, the composition of any chemical
used as treatment, and any other such information that describes the work or is
requested by the City Arborist.
   (D)   All applications for permits must be made to the City Arborist not
less than five days prior to the time the work is to begin.
(Ord. No. 05-40, passed 4-14-2005)
SEC. 6-5-7 EMERGENCIES.
   In case of emergencies such as windstorms, ice storms, hurricanes, tornadoes
or other disasters, the requirements of section 6-5-6 may be waived by the City
Arborist during the emergency period so that the requirements of this article
would in no way hamper private or public work to restore order and public
safety in the city.
(Ord. No. 05-40, passed 4-14-2005)
SEC. 6-5-8 INJURING TREES OR SHRUBBERY IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the person in charge of the
erection, repair, alteration or removal of any building or structure to place a
guard or protector around any tree or shrub in public rights-of-way or public
areas so as to prevent injury to such tree or shrub arising out of such
erection, repair, alteration or removal. If the erection, repair, alteration or
removal of any structures shall require the trimming, pruning or removal of any
tree or shrub upon public areas or rights-of-way, a written permit shall be
obtained from the City Arborist.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully to damage or destroy any
tree or shrub in or upon any public area or right-of-way.
(Ord. No. 05-40, passed 4-14-2005)
SEC. 6-5-9 OBSTRUCTION; TREES TRIMMED.
   It shall be the duty of the City Arborist to enforce the ordinance
concerning the trimming of trees on real property and the obstruction of public
rights-of-way or public areas.
(Ord. No. 05-40, passed 4-14-2005)
SEC. 6-5-10 AUTHORITY TO TREAT OR REMOVE TREES OR SHRUBBERY ON PUBLIC AND
PRIVATE GROUNDS.
   (A)   The City Arborist shall have the right to plant, trim, spray, preserve
and remove trees and shrubs on all public rights-of-way and public areas as may
be necessary to ensure safety or preserve the symmetry and beauty of the public
grounds.
   (B)   The City Arborist, under the power herein given, may cause or order to
be removed any tree, shrub or part thereof on private property which in some
way endangers public health, safety or welfare on public property, or which by
reason of its nature is injurious to sewers or other public improvements, or is
affected with any injurious disease, insect or other pest. Any tree, shrub or
part thereof on private property determined by the City Arborist to be in such
condition is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   (C)   The City Arborist shall also have the power to enter upon any private
area in the city and to spray or otherwise treat or cause or order to be
treated any tree or shrub infected or infested by any disease, fungus, pest,
insect or parasite, when it shall be necessary in his or her opinion to do so
to prevent the breeding or scattering of any injurious and hazardous condition
and to prevent danger therefrom to person or property or to trees and shrubs
planted in the public rights-of-way or other public areas. Any tree or shrub
upon any private area of the city determined by the City Arborist to be in such
condition is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   (D)   Prior to any action of the City Arborist taken under subsections (B)
and (C) of this section, the affected property owner(s) shall be notified by
registered or certified mail of the contemplated action and the reasons for the
action. The owners shall have 15 days after the date of the notice to abate the
condition. If after 15 days, the property owner(s) have not abated the
condition, the City Arborist shall have the authority to remove or abate the
condition, and assess the owner(s) the cost thereof. If unpaid, the cost of
abatement shall be a lien upon the land or premises where the condition arose
and shall be collected as unpaid taxes.
(Ord. No. 05-40, passed 4-14-2005)
SEC. 6-5-11 REGISTRATION OF BUSINESSES WHICH PRUNE, TRIM OR TREAT TREES.
   All persons, firms or corporations now or hereafter engaged in the business
of pruning, removing or trimming trees, limbs or shrubs in the public rights-
of-way or public areas of the city shall, prior to the commencement of work,
file a statement of responsibility and qualifications with the City Arborist.
This statement of responsibility and qualifications shall detail all work to be
done on city-owned property and how they will comply with the intent and
requirements of this article. The City Arborist may require a bond and the like
to cover the costs of potential property damage to either city-owned or
privately-owned property, including the trees or shrubs to be worked on.
(Ord. No. 05-40, passed 4-14-2005)
SEC. 6-5-12 INTERFERENCE WITH THE CITY ARBORIST.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, prevent, delay or interfere
with the City Arborist while engaged in carrying out the lawful execution or
enforcement of this article; provided, however, that nothing herein shall be
construed as an attempt to prohibit the pursuit of any remedy, legal or
equitable, in any court of competent jurisdiction for the protection of
property rights by the owner of any property within the city.
(Ord. No. 05-40, passed 4-14-2005)
SEC. 6-5-13 PUNISHMENT FOR VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful and constitute a misdemeanor for any person to violate
any section of this article. Any violation may be punished by a fine of not
more than $200 or by imprisonment for not more than 30 days. Violations
affecting each tree or shrub shall constitute a distinct and separate offense.
If, as a result of the violation of any provision of this article, the injury,
mutilation or death of a tree located on any public rights-of-way or public
area or open city-owned off-street parking area is caused, the cost of repair
or replacement(s) of such tree shall be borne by the person in violation, in
addition to any civil penalties assessed.
(Ord. No. 05-40, passed 4-14-2005)
SEC. 6-5-14 APPEALS.
   In the event any person is dissatisfied with a decision of the City
Arborist, adversely affecting the person, involving the application of this
article, the person may make a written request for a review of the decision to
the Director of Public Works, which shall clearly describe the reason for
dissatisfaction. The Director of Public Works will review the decision and the
reason for dissatisfaction and notify the person of his or her decision by mail
within 15 days after the receipt of the request for a review. In the event any
person is dissatisfied with the decision of the Director of Public Works, the
person may within ten days after the date of the mailing of the decision,
appeal the decision. The appeal must be made to the City Manager in writing
fully describing the reason for dissatisfaction with the decision by the
Director of Public Works. The City Manager will review the decision and reason
for dissatisfaction and notify the person of his or her decision by mail within
15 days after the receipt of the appeal. The City Manager’s decision shall be
the final and binding ruling.
(Ord. No. 05-40, passed 4-14-2005)
ARTICLE B. TREE PROTECTION PRIOR TO DEVELOPMENT
SEC. 6-5-21 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The regulations of this article are intended to preserve trees along the
outer perimeter of undeveloped properties until such time as a site plan,
subdivision plan or other authorized development plan or permit is approved for
the property. Such regulations will help to ensure that trees along the
perimeter of undeveloped property are not removed or disturbed prior to
consideration of an actual plan for development of the property. By doing so,
the owner or developer of property will have the opportunity to consider and
evaluate the advantages of retaining existing trees during development and to
utilize the credits provided for retaining existing trees pursuant to
applicable regulations governing the development of the property.
(Ord. 07-33, § 2, passed 3-8-2007)
SEC. 6-5-22 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this article apply only to activity occurring on
undeveloped property prior to the approval of a site plan, subdivision plan or
other authorized development plan or permit for the property. After approval of
a site plan, subdivision plan or other authorized development plan or permit
for the property, the property, including the property within the perimeter
buffer zone, may be developed in accordance with applicable regulations
governing the development of the property. For the purpose of this article,
“undeveloped property” means any property within the corporate limits of the
city or within the extraterritorial area of the city as defined by Chapter 4 of
Title 9 of the Greenville City Code that is not subject to an approved site
plan, subdivision plan, or other authorized development plan or permit for the
property.
(Ord. 07-33, § 2, passed 3-8-2007)
SEC. 6-5-23 PERIMETER BUFFER ZONES.
   (A)   No person shall remove or disturb any existing tree with a diameter at
breast height (DBH) of six inches or greater within a perimeter buffer zone as
hereinafter defined in this section. For the purpose of this article, “diameter
at breast height” means the tree trunk diameter measured in inches at a height
of four and one-half feet above the ground and disturb means to deface, injure,
destroy or otherwise damage a tree or the root system of a tree within its drip
zone.
   (B)   The tree protection standards of this article apply to the perimeter
buffer zone of undeveloped property. The perimeter buffer zone is the area
within the outer perimeter of undeveloped property. The boundaries of the
perimeter buffer zone extend the following distances from the outer perimeter
of the undeveloped property:
       (1)   Fifty feet from all public road rights-of-way;
      (2)   Fifty feet from property lines adjacent to developed properties;
and
      (3)   Twenty-five feet from property lines adjacent to undeveloped
properties.
   (C)   In the event the area within the perimeter buffer zone for a property
exceeds the maximum allowable size of a perimeter buffer zone as provided in
section 6-5-25, then the boundaries of the perimeter buffer zone shall be
reduced an equal distance until the area no longer exceeds the maximum
allowable size.
(Ord. 07-33, § 2, passed 3-8-2007)
SEC. 6-5-24 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following activities are exempt from the tree protection standards of
this article:
   (A)   The removal of dead or naturally fallen or severely damaged trees or
vegetation, or the removal, by an approved method, of trees or vegetation that
are a threat to the public health, safety or welfare as determined by the City
Arborist;
   (B)   The removal of diseased or insect-infected trees or vegetation that
pose a risk to adjoining trees as determined by the City Arborist;
   (C)   The removal of trees necessary to establish a driveway at a location
and width approved by the City Engineer in accordance with city regulations so
as to allow access onto and within the property where no alternative means of
access exists on the site;
   (D)   The selective and limited removal of trees necessary to obtain clear
visibility at driveways, intersections or within required sight triangles;
   (E)   The removal of trees on tracts of two acres or less, with land within
public rights-of-way being excluded from the area calculation;
   (F)   The removal of trees as part of forestry activities on property that
is taxed on the basis of its present-use value as forestland under G.S. Chapter
105, Article 12 or conducted in accordance with a forestry management plan
prepared or approved by a forester registered pursuant to G.S. Chapter 89B,
except that, for such activities, a building permit or site plan or subdivision
plan shall be denied or disapproved in accordance with the provisions of
section
6-5-27(B);
   (G)   The removal of trees for the purpose of sale by commercial garden
centers, greenhouses or nurseries;
   (H)   The removal of damaged or dead trees during or after emergencies or
inclement weather such as wind storms, ice storms, fire or other disasters; and
   (I)   The removal of trees by or on behalf of a governmental entity or a
utility when the removal is necessary for the performance of the functions and
duties of the governmental entity or utility.
(Ord. 07-33, § 2, passed 3-8-2007)
SEC. 6-5-25 MAXIMUM SIZE OF PERIMETER BUFFER ZONE.
   The total area of a perimeter buffer zone required pursuant to the
provisions of this article shall not exceed 20% of the total area of the
property, excluding any land area located within public road rights-of-way and
any required conservation easements.
(Ord. 07-33, § 2, passed 3-8-2007)
SEC. 6-5-26 TREE SURVEY.
   A survey of individual trees shall not be required for property as a result
of the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 07-33, § 2, passed 3-8-2007)
SEC. 6-5-27 DENIAL OF BUILDING PERMIT AND DISAPPROVAL OF PLAN.
   (A)   Whenever trees are removed in violation of the tree preservation
standards of this article, the city shall deny a building permit or refuse to
approve a site or subdivision plan for a period of up to three years after the
completion of the removal of trees from the required perimeter buffer zone if
the removal of trees results in the removal of all or substantially all of the
trees that were not to be removed or disturbed in accordance with the tree
protection standards of this article from the tract of land for which the
permit or approval is sought.
   (B)   Whenever trees are removed within the perimeter buffer zone of
property as a result of forestry activities on property that is taxed on the
basis of its present-use value as forestland under G.S. Chapter 105, Article 12
or conducted in accordance with a forestry management plan prepared or approved
by a forester registered pursuant to G.S. Chapter 89B, the city shall deny a
building permit or refuse to approve a site or subdivision plan for a period of
up to three years after the completion of the forestry activity if the forestry
activity results in the removal of all or substantially all of the trees that
were not to be removed or disturbed, if the exemption provided in section
6-5-24(F) did not apply, in accordance with the tree protection standards of
this article from the tract of land for which the permit or approval is sought.
(Ord. 07-33, § 2, passed 3-8-2007)
SEC. 6-5-28 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   (A)    Any violation of the provisions of this article shall subject the
offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $200. Violations affecting each
tree shall constitute a separate offense for the purposes of the penalties and
remedies specified in this section.
   (B)   Violators shall be issued a written citation which must be paid within
ten days. If a person fails to pay the civil penalty within ten days, the city
may recover the penalty together with all costs by filing a civil action in the
general court of justice in the nature of debt.
   (C)   This article may also be enforced by the appropriate equitable action.
   (D)   Any one, all, or any combination of the penalties or remedies provided
in this article may be used to enforce the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 07-33, § 2, passed 3-8-2007)
SEC. 6-5-29 ENFORCEMENT AND APPEALS.
   (A)   The City Arborist or a designee of the Public Works Director shall be
responsible for the enforcement of this article.
   (B)   In the event any person is dissatisfied with a decision of the City
Arborist or a designee of the Public Works Director, adversely affecting such
person, involving the application of this article, the person may make a
written request for a review of the decision to the Director of Public Works,
which shall clearly describe the reason for dissatisfaction. The Director of
Public Works will review the decision and the reason for dissatisfaction and
notify the person of his or her decision by mail within 15 days after the
receipt of the request for a review. In the event any person is dissatisfied
with the decision of the Director of Public Works, adversely affecting the
person, the person may, within ten days after the date of the mailing of the
decision, appeal the decision. The appeal must be made to the City Manager in
writing fully describing the reason for dissatisfaction with the decision by
the Director of Public Works. The City Manager will review the decision and
reason for dissatisfaction and notify the person of his or her decision by mail
within 15 days after the receipt of the appeal. The City Manager’s decision
shall be the final and binding ruling.
(Ord. 07-33, § 2, passed 3-8-2007)
TITLE 7
PARKS, RECREATION AND CULTURAL AFFAIRS
   
Chapter 1
.   General Provisions
   
Chapter 2.   Recreation and Parks Commission
   
Chapter 3.   Department of Recreation and Parks
Editor’s note:
   The provisions codified in this title were derived from Chapter 25 of the
1971 Code. The following title changes were made in the preparation of the
prior Code of Ordinances: (i) Recreation Commission was changed to Recreation
and Parks Commission, (ii) Director of Recreation was changed to Director of
Recreation and Parks, (iii) Department of Recreation was changed to Department
of Recreation and Parks. Historical notes have been included for each section
in this title for the user’s reference.
Statutory reference:
   Recreation Enabling Law, see G.S. 160A-350 et seq.
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
7-1-1   Definitions
SEC. 7-1-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   Commission. The Recreation and Parks Commission.
   Department. The Department of Recreation and Parks.
   Park areas and facilities. Includes the outdoor and indoor properties on or
in which people derive their opportunity for the pursuit of happiness and
whether or not they are owned, controlled or operated within or without the
city.
   Recreation activities. Includes those activities which fall within the
general classification areas of the following:
      (1)   Arts and crafts;
      (2)   Athletics;
      (3)   Dancing;
      (4)   Hobbies;
      (5)   Music;
      (6)   Nature and outings;
      (7)   Reading;
      (8)   Social recreation;
      (9)   Special events and activities;
      (10)   Sports and games;
      (11)   Volunteer service; and
      (12)   Writing and speaking.
CHAPTER 2: RECREATION AND PARKS COMMISSION
Section
   
7-2-1   Created
   
7-2-2   Number of members
   
7-2-3   Council to appoint members; appointment recommendations
   
7-2-4   Council member and City Manager to serve on Commission
   
7-2-5   Terms of office; when members appointed
   
7-2-6   Vacancies
   
7-2-7   Compensation and reimbursement
   
7-2-8   Officers; generally
   
7-2-9   Same; powers and duties; Secretary
   
7-2-10   Basic function
   
7-2-11   Powers and duties; generally
   
7-2-12   Same; Department management, policy, liaison; consultation with
Council
   
7-2-13   Meetings; generally; quorum
   
7-2-14   Same; attendance
   
7-2-15   Committees
   
7-2-16   Bylaws
   
7-2-17   Fiscal year
   
7-2-18   Obligations to be within available funds
   
7-2-19   Depositing and disbursing profits and nonbudget funds
   
7-2-20   Disposition of donated property
   
7-2-21   Master long-range Community Recreation and Parks Plan
   
7-2-22   Coordinating with other aspects of development
   
7-2-23   Assistance for priority schedule
   
7-2-24   Liaison with city Planning and Zoning Commission
   
7-2-25   Same; quality of membership of liaison
Statutory reference:
   Municipal recreation commissions, see G.S. 160A-354
SEC. 7-2-1 CREATED.
   There is hereby created the Recreation and Parks Commission of the city.
SEC. 7-2-2 NUMBER OF MEMBERS.
   The Recreation and Parks Commission shall consist of nine citizens of the
city.
SEC. 7-2-3 COUNCIL TO APPOINT MEMBERS; APPOINTMENT RECOMMENDATIONS.
   Each member of the Recreation and Parks Commission shall be appointed by the
City Council, which may request recommendations from the existing Commission.
SEC. 7-2-4 COUNCIL MEMBER AND CITY MANAGER TO SERVE ON COMMISSION.
   A member of the City Council shall be designated as an ex officio, nonvoting
member of the Recreation and Parks Commission. In addition, the City Manager
shall serve as an ex officio, nonvoting member of the Commission.
(Ord. No. 98-24, § 2, passed 2-12-1998)
SEC. 7-2-5 TERMS OF OFFICE; WHEN MEMBERS APPOINTED.
   (A)   Except for the City Council Member and the City Manager, each member
of the Recreation and Parks Commission shall be appointed for a three-year term
beginning June 1 of the year of his or her appointment. A member shall serve no
more than two consecutive three-year terms, except that an appointee who shall
have finished an unexpired term of another member may be appointed to as many
as two full, subsequent terms of three years each. The City Council member
appointed as a member of the Commission shall serve on the Commission
concurrently with his or her Council term of office.
   (B)   During the month of May in 1970, and every three years thereafter,
three members shall be appointed; during the month of May in 1971, and every
three years thereafter, three members shall be appointed; and during the month
of May in 1972, and every three years thereafter, two members shall be
appointed.
SEC. 7-2-6 VACANCIES.
   Vacancies in the Recreation and Parks Commission due to resignation, death
or any other cause occurring therein prior to the expiration of the appointed
term shall be filled by the City Council. Persons appointed to fill unexpired
terms shall serve the remainder of the term and may be appointed to no more
than two additional consecutive three-year terms.
SEC. 7-2-7 COMPENSATION AND REIMBURSEMENT.
   Recreation and Parks Commission members shall serve on this Commission
without monetary compensation. Members shall be reimbursed for travel and
subsistence to professional recreation meetings, conferences and workshops,
with such compensation being made in compliance with the general policies of
the city.
SEC. 7-2-8 OFFICERS; GENERALLY.
   There shall be a Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and Secretary of the
Recreation and Parks Commission. An annual election of the Chairperson and
Vice-Chairperson shall be held by the Commission members and shall occur at the
regular monthly meeting in June. Officers shall serve for one year from
election, with eligibility for reelection, but not to exceed two successive
terms. In the event an officer’s appointment is terminated, a replacement shall
be elected by the Commission, from its membership, at the meeting following the
termination.
SEC. 7-2-9 SAME; POWERS AND DUTIES; SECRETARY.
   (A)   The Recreation and Parks Commission Chairperson shall preside at all
meetings and sign all documents relative to action taken by the Commission. The
Chairperson shall appoint all committees, including a nominating committee
composed of two Commission members. A nominating committee shall be appointed
at least 30 days prior to the June meeting and shall prepare a single state of
nominees for the offices of the Commission.
   (B)   In the absence of the Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson shall perform
the duties of the Chairperson.
   (C)   The Director of Recreation and Parks shall serve as Secretary to the
Commission. He or she may delegate all or part of these duties to another
employee with the approval of the Commission but shall be held responsible for
the satisfactory accomplishment of the secretarial duties. The Secretary shall
mail copies of official reports and official minutes of all regular and special
meetings to members prior to the next scheduled meeting.
Cross-reference:
   Director of Recreation and Parks, see §
7-3-4
SEC. 7-2-10 BASIC FUNCTION.
   It shall be the basic function of the Recreation and Parks Commission to
promote recreation and develop parks for the citizens of the city.
SEC. 7-2-11 POWERS AND DUTIES; GENERALLY.
   The Recreation and Parks Commission shall exercise powers and assume duties
for recreation and park purposes, as follows:
   (A)   Establish a system of supervised recreation for the city;
   (B)   Set apart for use as parks, playgrounds, recreation centers or other
recreation facilities any lands or buildings owned by or leased to the city
upon approval of the City Council. The Commission may improve such lands and
construct and equip such buildings and facilities as may be necessary to the
recreation and parks program within the funds allocated to the Commission;
   (C)   Acquire lands or buildings through gifts, purchase, lease or loan, as
approved by the City Council;
   (D)   Accept for the city, with the approval of the City Council, any grant,
gift, bequest or donation of any personal or real property offered or made
available for recreation or park purposes and which is judged to be of present
or possible future use for recreation and parks;
   (E)   Provide, construct, equip, operate and maintain parks, playgrounds,
recreation centers and all buildings and structures necessary or useful to
department functions and other park facilities owned or controlled by the city,
or leased or loaned to the Commission by the owners thereof; and
   (F)   Advise the City Council on all matters pertaining to bikeway planning
and development, bicycle safety, and plans for a comprehensive city-wide
bikeway system.
(Ord. No. 1538, § 1, passed 9-12-1985)
SEC. 7-2-12 SAME; DEPARTMENT MANAGEMENT, POLICY, LIAISON; CONSULTATION WITH
COUNCIL.
   The Recreation and Parks Commission shall serve as the managing authority
for the Department of Recreation and Parks. The Commission shall establish
policies which shall be followed by the Department within the powers and
responsibilities as stated in this chapter. The Commission shall serve as a
liaison between the Department, City Manager, City Council and citizens of the
community. The Commission shall consult with and advise the Council in matters
affecting recreation policies, program, personnel, finances and the acquisition
and disposal of lands and properties related to the recreation and parks
program and to the long-range projected program for recreation.
SEC. 7-2-13 MEETINGS; GENERALLY; QUORUM.
   Recreation and Parks Commission meetings shall be held on a monthly basis
except as may be otherwise specified from time to time by the Commission. The
Chairperson of the Commission or, in his or her absence, the Vice-Chairperson,
may call a special meeting of the Commission at any time by giving each member
24 hours’ notice. Special meetings may be scheduled upon request by five or
more Commission members. A quorum of the Commission shall be in attendance
before action of an official nature can be taken. A quorum shall consist of
five of the nine appointed members.
SEC. 7-2-14 SAME; ATTENDANCE.
   An appointed member of the Recreation and Parks Commission who misses more
than three consecutive meetings thereof shall lose his or her official status
as member of the Commission and shall be replaced by the City Council. Absences
due to sickness, death or other emergencies of like nature shall be regarded as
approved absences and shall not affect the member’s status on the Commission,
except that in the event of a long illness or other cause for prolonged
absence, the Council shall replace the member.
SEC. 7-2-15 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The Executive Committee of the Recreation and Parks Commission shall
consist of the Chairperson, Vice- Chairperson, Secretary and ex officio the
City Manager. The Commission Chairperson is hereby authorized to appoint such
committees as, in the opinion of the Commission, are needed. Standing committee
suggestions are:
      (1)   Areas and facilities;
      (2)   Finances;
      (3)   Personnel;
      (4)   Policies and Procedures; and
      (5)   Program and Activities.
   (B)   Additional temporary committees may be appointed as needed.
SEC. 7-2-16 BYLAWS.
   Operation policies and procedures for the Recreation and Parks Commission
may be incorporated in a set of bylaws developed and approved by the Commission
in line with this chapter and the policies of the city.
SEC. 7-2-17 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the Recreation and Parks Commission shall conform to the
fiscal year of the city.
SEC. 7-2-18 OBLIGATIONS TO BE WITHIN AVAILABLE FUNDS.
   The Recreation and Parks Commission shall not enter into any contract or
incur any obligation binding upon the city except within the budget
appropriations made by the City Council or within the amount of other money
properly available to the Commission.
SEC. 7-2-19 DEPOSITING AND DISBURSING PROFITS AND NONBUDGET FUNDS.
   Funds received by the Commission from sources other than budget
appropriations shall be deposited by the city to the credit of, and for the use
of the Commission, and shall be disbursed as are other budgeted funds except
that funds received by gift, bequest or other than from the general fund or
from tax sources of the city shall be disbursed in accordance with the terms of
such gift or bequest.
SEC. 7-2-20 DISPOSITION OF DONATED PROPERTY.
   Any gift or bequest of money or other property, and any grant or devise of
real estate shall be held, used and finally disposed of by the Recreation and
Parks Commission in accordance with the terms under which the grant, gift or
devise is made and accepted.
SEC. 7-2-21 MASTER LONG-RANGE COMMUNITY RECREATION AND PARKS PLAN.
   (A)   The Recreation and Parks Commission shall review annually the master
long-range Community Recreation and Parks Plan.
   (B)   In such annual review, the recreation and park desires and needs of
all citizens shall be taken into account. Existing publicly owned areas and
facilities shall be considered from the standpoint of their potential use for
recreation and park purposes, and every effort shall be made to realize their
full value as recreation and park resources, but the economical values and
functional efficiency of recreation developed, owned and operated areas and
facilities shall not be lost from sight.
   (C)   The master long-range Community Recreation and Parks Plan shall be
developed to include much more than a survey of existing areas and facilities,
and of future needs in these categories. It shall recognize as well the values
of the broad, basic recreation program, of competent leadership, of a constant
process of analysis of needs and opportunities for recreation services, and of
a continuous refinement and revision of details of the long-range plan for
which experience and the changing community needs will reveal the need.
Professional planning assistance may be secured within the limits of funds
available for such purpose, to assist in bringing the long-range plan up to
date if the action is found to be in the interest of the Commission and the
citizens it serves.
SEC. 7-2-22 COORDINATING WITH OTHER ASPECTS OF DEVELOPMENT.
   The Recreation and Parks Commission shall be responsible for a proper and
effective meshing of the recreation and parks plan and action with that of
other aspects of planning and development services and of city government
growth and expansion.
(Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 7-2-23 ASSISTANCE FOR PRIORITY SCHEDULE.
   The Recreation and Parks Commission shall be responsible for giving active
assistance in the development of a priority schedule of park land acquisition,
facility and program development.
SEC. 7-2-24 LIAISON WITH CITY PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   The Recreation and Parks Commission shall select one of its members to meet
with the Planning and Zoning Commission at times when matters are considered
which will have impact upon the present or future recreation services of the
city. These will include certain of the Planning and Zoning Commission’s
development of planning, action and subdivision recommendations, all proposals
for annexation and all suggestions for acquisition and release of city-owned
lands.
Cross-reference:
   Planning and Zoning Commission, see
Title 9, Chapter 2
SEC. 7-2-25 SAME; QUALITY OF MEMBERSHIP OF LIAISON.
   The Recreation and Parks Commission member selected for liaison duty
pursuant to section
7-2-24 shall ex officio be a member of the city Planning and Zoning Commission;
shall be given adequate notification of all their meetings and shall be given
an opportunity to present the suggestions and needs of recreation and parks for
proper and adequate consideration by the Planning and Zoning Commission, and to
assist in the presentation and support of their findings to the City Council.
CHAPTER 3: DEPARTMENT OF RECREATION AND PARKS
Section
   
7-3-1   Creation; chain of authority
   
7-3-2   Assistance to other agencies
   
7-3-3   Supervisory and initiatory functions
   
7-3-4   Director of Recreation and Parks; position created; to be Commission
executive and department head
   
7-3-5   Reserved
   
7-3-6   Same; powers and duties; generally
   
7-3-7   Same; employments and discharges
   
7-3-8   Reports
SEC. 7-3-1 CREATION; CHAIN OF AUTHORITY.
   There is hereby created a city department which shall be known as the
Department of Recreation and Parks. Such Department shall function directly
under the city Recreation and Parks Commission.
Cross-reference:
   Creation of city departments, see §
2-2-11
SEC. 7-3-2 ASSISTANCE TO OTHER AGENCIES.
   In assisting the Recreation and Parks Commission to carry out its basic
function as set forth in section
7-2-10, the Department of Recreation and Parks is authorized to aid and assist
agencies, in line with reasonable and legally correct policies set up by the
Commission, which may range from private or commercial to quasi-public in
character and those which, although public in nature, are not a part of the
city government, such as schools, churches, hospitals and orphanages,
commercial recreation, business and industrial agencies, as well as civic
neighborhood and service groups in their recreation and parks interests and
needs.
SEC. 7-3-3 SUPERVISORY AND INITIATORY FUNCTIONS.
   The Department of Recreation and Parks shall have complete supervision of
the facilities and activities conducted on or connected with the parks,
playgrounds, athletic fields, recreation centers and other park facilities
provided, and shall have the power to conduct any wholesome form of recreation
or cultural activity on or about such premises.
SEC. 7-3-4 DIRECTOR OF RECREATION AND PARKS; POSITION CREATED; TO BE COMMISSION
EXECUTIVE AND DEPARTMENT HEAD.
   The position of Director of Recreation and Parks is hereby created. The
executive for the Recreation and Parks Commission shall be the Director of
Recreation and Parks for the city who shall, also, work with the City Manager
as one of his or her department heads.
Cross-reference:
   Director of Recreation and Parks as Secretary to Commission, see §
7-2-9
SEC. 7-3-5 RESERVED.
SEC. 7-3-6 SAME; POWERS AND DUTIES; GENERALLY.
The Director of Recreation and Parks shall be responsible for the following:
   (A)   Administration and supervision of personnel;
   (B)   Administration and supervision of use of funds and equipment;
   (C)   Administration and supervision of the recreation program;
   (D)   Organization and conduct of recreation activities;
   (E)   Maintenance and upkeep of all areas, facilities and equipment;
   (F)   Public information and public relations;
   (G)   Representation of the Department at local, state and national
functions and professional meetings;
   (H)   Assistance in securing financial support for the Commission;
   (I)   Adherence to Commission and city policies and regulations;
   (J)   Administration of rules and policies governing Department operation;
   (K)   Developing or arranging for the preparation of a long-range plan of
park area and facility acquisition and development, and in the following of
such plan; and
   (L)   For such other functions as may, within the policy of the city, be
deemed proper by the Recreation and Parks Commission.
SEC. 7-3-7 SAME; EMPLOYMENTS AND DISCHARGES.
   An Assistant Director of the Recreation and Parks Department and such other
persons as may be deemed necessary to the supervision, operation and
maintenance of the recreation program and the park system, including parks,
centers, play areas and other facilities and areas, may be employed by the
Director of Recreation and Parks in accordance with municipal personnel
policies, upon recommendation by the personnel committee of the Recreation and
Parks Commission, and with the approval of the Commission and the City Manager.
Such personnel in line with the Commission and city personnel policy shall
serve and shall be discharged at the pleasure of the Director of Recreation and
Parks.
SEC. 7-3-8 REPORTS.
   The Recreation and Parks Department shall make the following reports:
   (A)   A full and complete monthly summary of the city’s recreation and park
functions, to the Recreation and Parks Commission and to the City Manager;
   (B)   A full and complete community recreation and parks functions report
including all phases of Department and Department-associated functions, to be
made annually to the Commission and, through the City Manager, to the City
Council;
   (C)   An annual financial statement covering the past fiscal year, to the
Commission, and, through the City Manager, to the City Council;
   (D)   Other reports to be submitted to the Commission and to the City
Manager, as requested or deemed necessary, are on: safety hazards, defective
equipment and dangerous conditions, damaged and destroyed property and
accidents occurring on or within park areas and facilities; and
   (E)   The Director shall prepare a report of his or her analysis of
Commission financial needs and submit it to the Commission for its
consideration and assistance, as it makes up its annual budgetary request to
the City Council.
TITLE 8
PUBLIC UTILITIES
   
Chapter 1.   General Provisions
   
Chapter 2.   Utility Service Underground
   
Chapter 3.   Stormwater Management Utility
Cross-reference:
   Utilities Commission, see Related Local Laws, §
4-1         
Editor’s note:
   Utility services for the city are provided and regulated by the Greenville
Utilities Commission. Utility services include electricity, gas, water and
sewerage. The operation of the Commission is headed by the General Manager of
Greenville Utilities and consists of seven departments: (1) Finance, (2)
Management Information Systems, (3) Support Services, (4) Customer Relations,
(5) Water Resources, (6) Gas, and (7) Electric. By Ord. No. 01-71 dated May 10,
2001, the Greenville City Council established a stormwater management utility
that will be implemented by the City of Greenville.
Statutory reference:
   Establishment and operation of public enterprises, see G.S. 160A-311 et seq.
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
8-1-1   Utility regulations
   
8-1-2   Participation in joint municipal assistance agency
SEC. 8-1-1 UTILITY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The following Regulations adopted by the Greenville Utilities
Commission are hereby adopted and incorporated into this Code by reference.
      (1)   Part A - Terms and Conditions of Electric Service;
      (2)   Part B - Terms and Conditions of Gas Service;
      (3)   Part C - Terms and Conditions of Water and Sewer Service;
      (4)   Part D - Customer Service Policy;
      (5)   Part E - Utility Rate Schedule; and
      (6)   Part F- Hearing Procedures.
   (B)   A copy of the Greenville Utilities Commission Regulations shall be
maintained in the office of the City Clerk and in the office of the Director of
Utilities.
   (C)   As provided by G.S. 160A-77, such regulations shall be published as a
separate pamphlet and made available to the public.
(Ord. No. 1038, passed 12-11-1980)
SEC. 8-1-2 PARTICIPATION IN JOINT MUNICIPAL ASSISTANCE AGENCY.
   (A)   The governing board hereby finds that participation in the proposed
joint municipal assistance agency will result in economies, efficiencies and
other benefits with respect to the construction, ownership, maintenance,
expansion and operation of the municipality’s electric system and that
participation in such agency by the municipality as a member is desirable.
   (B)   The municipality’s Commissioner or alternate Commissioner, to be
appointed as hereinafter provided, be and they are hereby authorized and
directed to take such action as may be necessary or desirable to effect the
municipality’s membership in the joint municipal assistance agency to be formed
pursuant to an application of the Secretary of State by two or more
Commissioners from the municipalities proposed as members of the same.
   (C)   The names of the municipalities which are proposed to be the initial
members of the joint municipal assistance agency are: Albemarle; Apex; Ayden;
Belhaven; Benson; Black Creek; Cherryville; Clayton; Concord; Cornelius;
Dallas; Drexel; Edenton; Elizabeth City; Farmville; Forest City; Fountain;
Fremont; Gastonia; Granite Falls; Greenville; Hamilton; Hertford; High Point;
Hobgood; Hookerton; Huntersville; Kinston; LaGrange; Landis; Laurinburg;
Lexington; Lincolnton; Louisburg; Lucama; Lumberton; Macclesfield; Maiden;
Monroe; Morganton; New Bern; Newton; Oak City; Pikeville; Pinetops; Pineville;
Red Springs; Robersonville; Rocky Mount; Scotland Neck; Selma; Sharpsburg;
Shelby; Smithfield; Southport; Stantonsburg; Statesville; Tarboro; Wake Forest;
Walstonburg; Washington; Wilson; Windsor; Winterville.
   (D)   The failure of any one or more of the proposed initial members to
actually join the joint municipal assistance agency shall in no way impair or
affect the findings or determinations herein made or the authority herein
granted.
    (E)   The municipality does hereby authorize the transfer to the newly
formed joint municipal assistance agency of its interest in such of the assets
of ElectriCities of North Carolina, a voluntary association, as may be
determined by the Board of Directors of ElectriCities of North Carolina.
   (F)   The authority of the municipality to appoint the municipality’s
Commissioners and alternate Commissioners to the joint municipal assistance
agency is hereby delegated to the Greenville Utilities Commission of the City
of Greenville, North Carolina, and such appointments shall have the same force
and effect as appointments by the municipality, such appointments to serve at
the pleasure of the Greenville Utilities Commission and until their successors
are appointed by the Greenville Utilities Commission as herein provided.
(Ord. No. 1316, §§ 1–6, passed 9-8-1983)
CHAPTER 2: UTILITY SERVICE UNDERGROUND
Section
   
8-2-1   Definitions
   
8-2-2   Extension of existing services into new areas
   
8-2-3   Installation in housing developments
   
8-2-4   Installation in urban renewal areas
   
8-2-5   Relocation in support of civic improvement projects
   
8-2-6   Granting of variances
   
8-2-7   Violations
SEC. 8-2-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the term “utility services” shall include
electric, telephone, telegraph, community antennas, water and gas transmission
and distribution systems.
SEC. 8-2-2 EXTENSION OF EXISTING SERVICES INTO NEW AREAS.
   The extension of existing utility services into new areas will be placed
underground.
SEC. 8-2-3 INSTALLATION IN HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS.
   Utility services in all public and private housing developments will
henceforth be installed underground.
SEC. 8-2-4 INSTALLATION IN URBAN RENEWAL AREAS.
   Utility services in urban renewal areas will henceforth be placed
underground.
SEC. 8-2-5 RELOCATION IN SUPPORT OF CIVIC IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS.
   In support of civic improvement, including but not restricted to street
widening, street paving, street realignment, provisions for open space and the
like, utility services will be relocated underground.
SEC. 8-2-6 GRANTING OF VARIANCES.
   In situations where the movement of utility services underground is
demonstratively impracticable, variances from the provisions of this chapter
shall be granted by the City Council.
SEC. 8-2-7 VIOLATIONS.
   Any violation of this chapter shall be unlawful, and the imposition of one
penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to
continue. Each day that a violation of this chapter continues after notice from
the City Manager, or a duly authorized agent of the city, shall constitute a
separate offense.
CHAPTER 3: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT UTILITY
Section
   
8-3-1   Purpose
   
8-3-2   Definitions
   
8-3-3   Establishment of a stormwater management utility and Enterprise Fund
   
8-3-4   Jurisdiction
   
8-3-5   Impervious coverage and rate unit
   
8-3-6   Schedule of fees and charges
   
8-3-7   Billing and collection
   
8-3-8   Disposition of service charges and fees
   
8-3-9   Credits and exemptions
 SEC. 8-3-1 PURPOSE.
   This chapter establishes a stormwater management utility as an identified
fiscal and accounting fund for the purpose of addressing the stormwater
management needs of the city from a comprehensive approach including stormwater
management programs designed to protect water quality by controlling the level
of pollutants in, and the quantity and flow of, stormwater and structural and
natural stormwater and drainage systems of all types.
SEC. 8-3-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   Credits. Ongoing reductions in the stormwater service charge applicable to a
given property in recognition of on-site or off-site systems, facilities,
measures and actions taken by customers to reduce or mitigate the impact of
their properties or actions on quantity or quality impacts that would otherwise
be managed in the public system. “Credits” shall be conditioned on the
continuing performance of the systems, facilities, measures or actions in
reference to standards adopted by the utility upon which the credits are
granted, and may be revised or rescinded. In no case shall “credits” exceed the
amount of the stormwater service charge.
   Detached single-family residential. Developed land containing one structure
which is not attached to another dwelling unit and which contains one or more
rooms with a bathroom and kitchen facilities designed for occupancy by one
family and shall include single-family houses, single duplex units,
manufactured homes, and mobile homes located on individual lots or parcels of
lands. Developed land may be classified as “detached single-family residential”
despite the presence of incidental structures associated with residential uses
such as garages, carports or small storage buildings. “Detached single-family
residential” shall not include developed land containing structures used
primarily for nonresidential purposes, manufactured homes and mobile homes
located within manufactured home or mobile home parks, or other multiple unit
properties.
   Developed land.  Property altered from a natural state that contains
impervious surface.
   Equivalent rate unit. Two thousand square feet of impervious surface or any
fraction thereof.
   Impervious surfaces. Those areas within developed land which prevent or
significantly impede the infiltration of stormwater into the soil. Common
“impervious surfaces” include but are not limited to roof tops, sidewalks,
walkways, patio areas, roads, driveways, parking lots, storage areas, brick or
concrete pavers, compacted gravel surfaces (roads, driveways, parking and
storage areas), and other surfaces which prevent or significantly impede the
natural infiltration of stormwater into the soil.
   Other properties. Any developed land not fitting the definition of detached
single-family residential. “Other properties” shall include but not be limited
to attached single-family houses, townhouses and condominiums, apartments,
boarding houses, hotels and motels, churches, commercial properties which
include dwelling units, manufactured home or mobile home parks, commercial and
office buildings, storage areas, parking lots and other impervious areas,
parks, recreation properties, public and private schools and universities,
hospitals and convalescent centers, office buildings, airports, agricultural
uses involving impervious surfaces, and water and wastewater treatment plants.
Real properties which are used for other than single-family residential use
located in single-family residential structures or duplexes shall be deemed
other properties for the purpose of calculating the stormwater service charge.
The definition of “other properties” shall be broadly construed such that any
property having areas of impervious coverage shall be subject to the stormwater
service charge unless otherwise provided.
   Service charge.  The stormwater service charges applicable to a parcel of
developed land which is generally reflective of a parcel’s impact on the cost
of providing services and facilities to properly control stormwater runoff
quantity and/or quality. The “service charge” will vary from one parcel of
developed land to another based upon the amount of impervious surfaces.
   Stormwater.  The runoff from precipitation that travels over natural or
developed surfaces to the nearest stream, other conduit, or impoundment and
appears in lakes, rivers, ponds or other bodies of water.
   Stormwater and drainage systems. Natural and structural channels, swales,
ditches, swamps, rivers, streams, creeks, branches, reservoirs, ponds, drainage
ways, inlets, catch basins, pipes, head walls, storm sewers, lakes, and other
physical works, properties and improvements which transfer, control, convey or
otherwise influence the movement of stormwater runoff.
   Stormwater management programs.  Programs designed to protect water quality
by controlling the level of pollutants in, and the quantity and flow of,
stormwater.
   Stormwater utility. A management structure that is responsible solely and
specifically for the stormwater management program and system and that is
supported through a rate structure that is based on the amount of stormwater
generated by individual properties.
   Undeveloped land.  Land that does not meet the definition of developed
lands.
(Ord. No. 01-71, § 1, passed 5-10-2001; Ord. No. 02-133, § 1, passed 12-12-
2002)
SEC. 8-3-3 ESTABLISHMENT OF A STORMWATER MANAGEMENT UTILITY AND ENTERPRISE
FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a stormwater management utility for the
city which shall be responsible for stormwater management programs and which
shall provide for the management, protection, control, regulation, use and
enhancement of stormwater and drainage systems.
   (B)   There is hereby established a Stormwater Management Enterprise Fund
for the city for the purpose of dedicating and protecting all funding
applicable to the purposes and responsibilities of the stormwater management
utility, including but not limited to rents, rates, fees, charges and penalties
as may be established, after notice and a public hearing, by City Council and
other funds that may be transferred or allocated to the stormwater management
utility. All revenues and receipts of the stormwater management utility shall
be placed in the Stormwater Management Enterprise Fund and all expenses of the
utility shall be paid from the Stormwater Enterprise Fund, except that other
revenues, receipts and resources not accounted for in the Stormwater Utility
Enterprise Fund may be applied to stormwater management programs, and
stormwater and drainage systems as deemed appropriate by City Council.
(Ord. No. 01-71, § 1, passed 5-10-2001)
SEC. 8-3-4 JURISDICTION.
The boundaries and jurisdiction of the stormwater management utility shall
extend to the corporate limits of the city, including all areas hereafter
annexed thereto, and such additional areas lying outside the corporate limits
of the city as shall be approved by City Council.
(Ord. No. 01-71, § 1, passed 5-10-2001)
SEC. 8-3-5 IMPERVIOUS COVERAGE AND RATE UNIT.
   (A)   Impervious coverage. The amount of impervious coverage of real
property is a key factor in the peak rate of stormwater runoff and the
pollutant loadings of stormwater runoff discharged to the structural and
natural drainage systems and facilities. Therefore, the amount of impervious
coverage shall be the primary parameter for establishing the rate structure to
distribute the cost of systems and facilities through a schedule of rates,
fees, charges and penalties related to the use and operation of the stormwater
utility and public enterprise as established in section 8-3-3.
   (B)   Establishment of the Equivalent Rate Unit. The area of 2,000 square
feet of impervious surface or any fraction thereof shall be the basis of one
Equivalent Rate Unit. The rate unit is based on an analysis of impervious
surface throughout the city.
   (C)   Application of the Equivalent Rate Unit. Differences in the level and
cost of services and facilities across the city constitute sufficient reason to
differentiate in the application of the Equivalent Rate Unit for individual
properties.
(Ord. No. 02-133, § 2, passed 12-12-2002)
SEC. 8-3-6 SCHEDULE OF FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Fee schedule adopted.  The schedule of fees and charges set out in
this section is hereby adopted and shall apply to all properties within the
city except as altered by credits or exemptions.
      (1)   Detached single-family residential. Each detached single-family
residential property shall be billed and shall pay pursuant to the number of
Equivalent Rate Units determined for each individual property but shall not
exceed four Equivalent Rate Units. There shall be no service charge for
detached single-family residential property with fewer than 200 square feet of
impervious surface.
      (2)   Other properties. All other properties, including but not limited
to multi-family residential properties with three or more living units,
commercial properties, industrial properties, public and institutional
properties, church properties, public and private school properties, and
publicly owned properties, unless specifically exempted, shall be billed and
shall pay pursuant to the number of Equivalent Rate Units determined for each
individual property. There will be no service charge for other properties with
fewer than 200 square feet of impervious surface.
   (B)   Charge per Equivalent Rate Unit. The monthly service charge per
Equivalent Rate Unit shall be the service charge set in the Manual of Fees of
the city. The monthly service charge per Equivalent Rate Unit may be amended
from time to time.
(Ord. No. 02-133, § 2, passed 12-12-2002)
SEC. 8-3-7 BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   Method of billing. Billing and collection of the stormwater service
charge and any other rents, rates, fees, charges and penalties for stormwater
management services and facilities may be accomplished in any manner deemed
appropriate by the City Manager.
   (B)   Delinquencies. A stormwater utility service charge billing or other
billing for rents, rates, fees, charges and penalties associated with the
stormwater utility shall be declared delinquent if not paid within 60 days of
the date of billing. A delinquent billing shall accumulate an additional
penalty at the rate as established for delinquent, unpaid property taxes and
shall run from the date of the original billing. This penalty shall be termed a
delinquency penalty charge.
   (C)   Appeal of disputed bills, adjustments. If any customer disputes the
stormwater utility service charge or any other rents, rates, fees, charges, or
penalties adopted pursuant to this chapter, that customer must appeal the
billing within 60 days of the charge, stating the reasons for the appeal, and
providing information pertinent to the calculation of the bill. An appeal of a
disputed bill shall be filed with the Director of Engineering, who may direct
that the appeal be reviewed and resolved by the stormwater utility staff. If
the customer is not satisfied with the disposition of the appeal, the customer
may further appeal the disputed charge to the City Manager or his or her
designee who shall make the final ruling on the validity of the appeal. The
administrative remedies provided in this chapter shall be exhausted before
recourse to a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. 02-133, § 2, passed 12-12-2002; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-
2023)
SEC. 8-3-8 DISPOSITION OF SERVICE CHARGES AND FEES.
   Stormwater management utility service charge and fee revenues shall be
assigned and dedicated solely to the Stormwater Management Enterprise Fund in
the city budget and accounting system, which shall be and remain separate from
other funds, and shall be used only to fund stormwater management programs and
structural and natural stormwater and drainage systems. The service charges and
fees paid to and collected by virtue of the provision of this chapter shall not
be used for general or other governmental or proprietary purposes of the city,
except to pay for costs incurred by the city in rendering services to the
stormwater management utility.
(Ord. No. 02-133, § 2, passed 12-12-2002)
SEC. 8-3-9 CREDITS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Credit for mitigation measures. Credits against stormwater management
utility service charges are an appropriate means of adjusting fees, rates,
rentals, charges, fines and penalties in certain cases. Crediting mechanisms
may be established by City Council and, when established, a credit manual shall
be issued that will set forth the appropriate process and documentation to
obtain such credits. No exception, credit, offset or other reduction in
stormwater service charges shall be granted based on age, race, tax status,
economic status or religion of the customer, or other condition unrelated to
the stormwater utility’s cost of providing stormwater services and facilities.
   (B)   Exemptions. Except as provided in this section, no public or private
property shall be exempt from stormwater service charges or receive a credit
against such service charges. The following exemptions shall be allowed:
      (1)   Improved public road rights-of-way which have been conveyed to and
accepted for maintenance by the North Carolina Department of Transportation and
are available for use in common for vehicular transportation by the general
public shall be exempt from the stormwater service charge;
      (2)   Improved public road rights-of-way which have been conveyed to and
accepted for maintenance by the city and are available for use in common for
vehicular transportation by the general public shall be exempt from the
stormwater service charge; and
      (3)   Railroad rights-of-way used exclusively for trackage and related
safety appurtenances shall be exempted from the stormwater service charge.
      (4)   Airport runways and taxiways subject to G.S 160A-314(a1)(6).
(Ord. No. 02-133, § 2, passed 12-12-2002; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-
2023)
TITLE 9
NEW (NCGS 160D-Update)
BUILDING, PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
   
Chapter 1.   Inspections and Code Enforcement
   
Chapter 2.   Planning and Zoning Commission
   
Chapter 3.   Airport Zoning
   
Chapter 4.   Zoning
   
Chapter 5.   Subdivisions
   
Chapter 6.   Flood Damage Prevention
   
Chapter 7.   Historic Preservation Commission
   
Chapter 8.   Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control
   
Chapter 9.   Stormwater Management and Control
Editor’s note:
   Ordinance No. 1153 amended the Greenville City Code by deleting Title 9,
former Chapter 7, relating to mobile homes and mobile home parks.
CHAPTER 1: INSPECTIONS AND CODE ENFORCEMENT
Section
Article A. Adoption of Regulatory Codes by Reference
   
9-1-1   Scope of chapter and codes
   
9-1-2   Jurisdiction of chapter and codes
   
9-1-3   Technical codes
   
9-1-4   Compliance with codes
   
9-1-5   Copy of codes filed with Clerk
Article B. Inspections Division
   
9-1-20   Organization of Division
   
9-1-21   Functions and duties
   
9-1-22   Inspection procedure
   
9-1-23   Oversight not to legalize violation
   
9-1-24   Administrative liability
   
9-1-25   Conflicts of interest
   
9-1-26   Reports and records
   
9-1-27   Stop work orders
Article C. Enforcement Provisions
   
9-1-30   Enforcement of building inspection services and housing standards in
extraterritorial jurisdiction of city
   
9-1-31   Building permits
   
9-1-32   Limitations on issuance of permits
   
9-1-33   Application for permits
   
9-1-34   Issuance of permits
   
9-1-35   Revocation of permits
   
9-1-36   Expiration of building permits
   
9-1-37   Changes in work
   
9-1-38   Permit fees
   
9-1-39   Violations
   
9-1-40   Penalties
Article D. Fire Limits
   
9-1-60   Fire district
   
9-1-61   Restrictions within fire limits
Article E. Unsafe Buildings Condemned
   
9-1-70   Designation of unsafe buildings
   
9-1-71   Removing notice from condemned building
   
9-1-72   Failure to take corrective action
   
9-1-73   Order to take corrective action
   
9-1-74   Appeals; finality of order if not appealed
   
9-1-75   Failure to comply with order
   
9-1-76   Enforcement
   
9-1-77   Notice of lis pendens
   
9-1-78   Administrative fees and costs
Article F. Minimum Housing Code
   
9-1-90   Minimum Housing Code
   
9-1-91   Finding; purpose
   
9-1-92   Scope
   
9-1-93   Definitions
   
9-1-94   Minimum standards of fitness for dwellings
   
9-1-95   Minimum standards for structural conditions
   
9-1-96   Minimum standards for basic equipment and facilities
   
9-1-97   Minimum standards for smoke and carbon monoxide detectors
   
9-1-98   Minimum standards for light and ventilation
   
9-1-99   Minimum standards for space, use, and location
   
9-1-100   Minimum standards for safe and sanitary maintenance
   
9-1-101   Minimum standard to means of egress and exits
   
9-1-102   Minimum standards for control of insects, rodents, and infestations
   
9-1-103   Minimum standards applicable to rooming houses; exceptions
   
9-1-104   Responsibilities of owners and occupants
   
9-1-105   Special historic buildings and districts
   
9-1-106   Duties of Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer
   
9-1-107   Powers of the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer
   
9-1-108   Administrative liability
   
9-1-109   Conflicts of interest
   
9-1-110   Inspections; duty of owners and occupants
   
9-1-111   Procedure for enforcement
   
9-1-112   Vacated and closed dwellings
   
9-1-113   Abandoned structures
   
9-1-114   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
9-1-115   Costs; a lien on premises
   
9-1-116   Alternative remedies
   
9-1-117   Board of Adjustment to hear appeals
   
9-1-118   Conflict with other provisions
   
9-1-119   Violations; penalties
Article G. Nonresidential Building or Structure Code
   
9-1-121   Title
   
9-1-122   Purpose
   
9-1-123   Definitions
   
9-1-124   Applicability and compliance
   
9-1-125   Maintenance standards for nonresidential buildings and structures
   
9-1-126   Duties of the Enforcement Officer
   
9-1-127   Powers of the Enforcement Officer
   
9-1-128   Administrative liability
   
9-1-129   Conflicts of interest
   
9-1-130   Inspections
   
9-1-131   Procedure for enforcement
   
9-1-132   Limitations on orders and ordinances; historic landmark or historic
district
   
9-1-133   Limitations on orders and ordinances; vacant manufacturing facility
or vacant industrial warehouse
   
9-1-134   Vacated and closed nonresidential buildings or structures
   
9-1-135   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
9-1-136   Costs; a lien on premises
   
9-1-137   Ejectment
   
9-1-138   Filing of ordinances
   
9-1-139   Alternative remedies
   
9-1-140   Board of Adjustment to hear appeals
   
9-1-141   Temporary injunction remedy for aggrieved person
   
9-1-142   Conflict with other provisions
   
9-1-143   Penalties
Article H. Regulations on Vacated and Closed Buildings or Structures and
Dwellings
   
9-1-145   Applicability
   
9-1-146   Definitions
   
9-1-147   Standards
   
9-1-148   Notice of violation; penalties
Article I. Housemovers
   
9-1-151   Use of bond for damages or expenses
   
9-1-152   Return of unused bond
Editor’s note:
   For former Art. H, Regulation of the Use, Handling and Storage of Gas, G.S.
119-55 authorizes municipalities to adopt and enforce safety codes dealing with
the use, handling and storage of liquefied petroleum gases, provided local
safety codes are in accordance with the standards as set forth by the state.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection department, see G.S. 160D-1102 et seq.
   Minimum housing standards, see G.S. 160D-1201 et seq.
   Repair or demolition of dwellings unfit for human habitation, see G.S. 160D-
1203 and S.L. 2005-200
ARTICLE A. ADOPTION OF REGULATORY CODES BY REFERENCE
SEC. 9-1-1 SCOPE OF CHAPTER AND CODES.
   The provisions of this chapter and of the regulatory codes herein adopted
shall apply to the following:
   (A)   The location, design, materials, equipment, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, maintenance, moving, demolition, removal,
use and occupancy of every building or structure or any appurtenances connected
or attached to the building or structure;
   (B)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
plumbing systems consisting of house sewers, building drains, waste and vent
systems, hot and cold water supply systems and all fixtures and appurtenances
thereof;
   (C)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air conditioning and
refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment and appurtenances thereof; and
   (D)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
electrical systems and appurtenances thereof.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-2 JURISDICTION OF CHAPTER AND CODES.
   The provisions of this chapter, technical codes and regulatory codes adopted
here shall be in effect and apply within the corporate limits of the city and
beyond and surrounding the corporate limits within a line which constitutes the
boundary of the city’s extraterritorial jurisdiction, as described on the map
maintained in the office of the City Clerk, as the same may be amended from
time to time, as provided by law.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-3 TECHNICAL CODES.
   The term technical codes as used here shall mean the collective provisions
of the North Carolina: Administrative, Building (Accessibility), Plumbing,
Mechanical, Fuel Gas, Energy, Existing Buildings and Residential Codes as
adopted by the North Carolina Building Code Council, and the National
Electrical Code. The most recent edition, including all subsequent amendments,
of the North Carolina Building Code, as adopted by the North Carolina Building
Code Council, is adopted by reference as fully as though set forth here to the
extent such Code is applicable for safe and stable design, methods of
construction, minimum standards, and use of materials in building or structures
erected, enlarged, altered, repaired, or otherwise constructed or reconstructed
after adoption of this chapter.
   (A)   In addition, Appendix D – Fire Districts, of the North Carolina
Building Code is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set forth here
and shall be enforced as part of this chapter.
   (B)   The most recent applicable edition/editions, including all subsequent
amendments as set forth by the North Carolina Department of Insurance
Manufactured Housing Division, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as
though set forth here.
   (C)   The most recent edition, including all subsequent amendments, of the
North Carolina State Building Code, Existing Buildings, as adopted by the North
Carolina Building Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as
though set forth here.
   (D)   The most recent edition, including all subsequent amendments, of the
North Carolina Energy Code, as adopted by the North Carolina Building Code
Council, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set forth here.
   (E)   The most recent edition, including all subsequent amendments, of the
North Carolina Residential Code, as adopted by the North Carolina State
Building Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set
forth here.
   (F)   The most recent edition, including all subsequent amendments, of the
North Carolina Plumbing Code, as adopted by the North Carolina Building Code
Council, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set forth here.
   (G)   The most recent edition, including all subsequent amendments, of the
North Carolina Mechanical Code, as adopted by the North Carolina State Building
Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set forth here.
   (H)   The most recent edition, including all subsequent amendments, of the
North Carolina Electrical Code, as adopted by the North Carolina State Building
Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set forth here.
   (I)   The National Electrical Code, as adopted by the North Carolina
Building Code Council, including all subsequent amendments, is hereby adopted
by reference as fully as though set forth here.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-4 COMPLIANCE WITH CODES.
   (A)   All buildings or structures and connected appurtenances which are
constructed, reconstructed, erected, altered, extended, enlarged, repaired,
altered, occupied, used, demolished, or moved shall conform to the
requirements, minimum standards, and other provisions of either the North
Carolina Building Code or the North Carolina Residential Code, whichever is
applicable, or both if both are applicable. Where the provisions of this
chapter conflict with any of the technical codes listed above, the more
restrictive provisions shall apply.
   (B)   Every building or structure intended for human habitation, occupancy,
or use shall have plumbing, plumbing systems, or plumbing fixtures installed,
constructed, altered, extended, repaired, or reconstructed in accordance with
the minimum standards, requirements, and other provisions of the North Carolina
Plumbing Code.
   (C)   All mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air
conditioning or refrigeration systems, fuel-burning equipment, incinerators,
and other energy related systems, their fittings, appliances, fixtures, and
appurtenances shall be installed, erected, altered, replaced, repaired, used,
and maintained in accordance with the minimum standards, requirements, and
other provisions of the North Carolina State Mechanical Code.
   (D)   All electrical wiring, installations and appurtenances shall be
erected, altered, repaired, used, and maintained in accordance with the minimum
standards, requirements, and other provisions of the National Electrical Code
with the subsequent amendments set forth by the North Carolina Building Code
Council.
   (E)   All electrical repairs or permanent interior work done within the fire
district and public buildings of the city shall be done either in conduit,
steel or metallic tubing or metal molding.
   (F)   Temporary electric service structures.
      (1)   All temporary electric service structures shall be strongly built
and installed pursuant to the guidelines established by Greenville Utilities.
      (2)   All temporary electrical structures shall be inspected by the
electrical inspector before any connection is made with any electrical service
line.
   (G)   The installation of gas piping systems extending from the point of
delivery to the inlet connections of equipment served, and the installation and
operation of residential and commercial gas appliances and related accessories
shall conform to the provisions of the North Carolina Fuel Gas Code.
   (H)   All manufactured housing shall be constructed, repaired, altered,
installed, erected, replaced, or moved to another site in conformance with the
provisions of the most recent applicable edition/editions as set forth by the
North Carolina Department of Insurance Manufactured Housing Division.
   (I)   All construction, alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment, and
maintenance hereinafter made or installed to any building or structure, other
than one- and two-family buildings or structures and townhouses, shall conform
to the provisions of the North Carolina Fire Prevention Code.
   (J)   The thermal envelope of the building and installation of energy
systems, including alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment, appliances,
fixtures, fittings, and appurtenances, ventilation, cooling, air conditioning
and refrigeration systems, incinerators, and other energy-related systems shall
conform to the provisions of the North Carolina Energy Code.
   (K)   All alterations, repairs, replacement, rehabilitation or change of
occupancy of any existing building shall conform to applicable provisions of
the North Carolina Building Code – Existing Buildings or other applicable
technical codes.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-5 COPY OF CODES FILED WITH CLERK.
   An official copy of each regulatory code adopted herein, and official copies
of all amendments thereto, shall be kept on file in the office of the City
Clerk or Chief Building Inspector. The copies shall be the official copies of
the codes and the amendments.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
ARTICLE B. INSPECTIONS DIVISION
SEC. 9-1-20 ORGANIZATION OF DIVISION.
   The Inspections Division of the city shall consist of building inspectors,
and may also include a plumbing inspector, a mechanical inspector, an
electrical inspector and such other inspectors as may be authorized by City
Council.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-21 FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Inspections Division to enforce all of the
provisions of this chapter and of the regulatory codes adopted herein, and to
make all inspections necessary to determine whether the provisions of this
chapter and those codes are being met, excepting for the provisions of this
chapter designated to be enforced by the Code Enforcement Supervisor or
officer.
   (B)   All inspectors shall give such oath for the faithful performance of
their duties as may be required by the City Council.
   (C)   The administration and enforcement of this chapter shall be the duty
of the Inspections Division unless otherwise stated, and said Division is
hereby authorized and directed to take such lawful action as may be necessary
to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   The Inspections Division, through the appointment of inspectors, shall
have the full power, authority and duties prescribed by the general laws and
ordinances applicable to the city to make inspections and to perform all other
functions which are authorized or directed by law.
   (E)   Members of the Inspections Division shall have the right to enter
public or private property at such reasonable times as may be necessary for the
performance of their duties. Should the owner or occupant of any property
refuse to permit such reasonable access, the Inspection Division shall proceed
to obtain an administrative search warrant pursuant to G.S. 15-27.2. No person
shall obstruct, hamper or interfere with any such representative while in the
process of carrying out their lawful duties.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-22 INSPECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Inspections. The Inspections Division shall inspect all buildings and
structures and work therein for which a permit of any kind has been issued as
often as necessary in order to determine whether the work complies with this
chapter and the appropriate codes.
      (1)   When deemed necessary by the appropriate inspector, they may
require the permit holder to have materials and assemblies inspected at the
point of manufacture or fabrication, or inspections or tests to be made by
approved and recognized inspection organizations; provided, no approval shall
be based upon reports of such organizations unless the same are in writing and
certified by a responsible officer of such organization.
      (2)   All holders of permits, or their agents, shall notify the
Inspections Division at each stage of construction and shall give inspectors
free access to the premises for the purpose of making inspections. Approval
shall be obtained from the Inspections Division before subsequent work can be
continued. The inspections required shall conform to the provisions of the
North Carolina Administration and Technical Codes.
   (B)   Calls for inspection.
      (1)   Requests. Requests for inspections may be made electronically or
in-person to the office of the Inspections Division. The Inspections Division
shall make inspections as soon as practicable after a request is made, provided
the work is ready for inspection at the time the request is made.
      (2)   Certificate of occupancy.
         (a)   A local government may, upon completion of work or activity
undertaken pursuant to a development approval, make final inspections and issue
a certificate of compliance or occupancy if staff finds that the completed work
complies with all applicable state and local laws and with the terms of the
approval. No building, structure, or use of land that is subject to a building
permit required by G.S. Article 11 shall be occupied or used until a
certificate or occupancy or temporary certificate pursuant to G.S. 160D-1116
has been issued.
      (3)   Certificate of compliance; temporary certificates of occupancy.
         (a)   At the conclusion of all work done under a building permit, the
appropriate inspector shall make a final inspection, and, if the completed work
complies with all applicable state and local laws and with the terms of the
permit, a certificate of compliance shall be issued. Except as provided by
subsection (b) of this section, no new building or part thereof may be
occupied, no addition or enlargement of an existing building may be occupied,
and no existing building that has been altered or moved may be occupied, until
the Inspections Division has issued a certificate of compliance.
         (b)   A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued permitting
occupancy for a stated period of time of either the entire building or of
specified portions of the building if the inspector finds that the building may
safely be occupied prior to its final completion. A permit holder may request
and be issued a temporary certificate of occupancy if the conditions and
requirements of state and local laws are met.
         (c)   Any person who owns, leases, or controls a building and occupies
or allows the occupancy of the building or a part of the building before a
certificate of compliance or temporary certificate of occupancy has been issued
pursuant to subsection (a) or (b) of this section is guilty of a Class 1
misdemeanor.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Administrative development approvals and determinations G.S. 160D-403
   Certificates of compliance; temporary certificates of occupancy G.S. 160D-
1116
SEC. 9-1-23 OVERSIGHT NOT TO LEGALIZE VIOLATION.
   No oversight or dereliction of duty on the part of any inspector or other
official or employee of the Inspections Division of the Planning and
Development Services Department or the Code Enforcement Division of the
Neighborhood and Business Services Department shall be deemed to legalize the
violation of any provision of this chapter or any provision of any regulatory
code herein adopted.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-24 ADMINISTRATIVE LIABILITY.
   No officer, agent, official (elected or appointed) or employee of the city
shall render themselves personally liable for any damage that may accrue to
persons or property as a result of any act required or permitted in the
discharge of their duties under this chapter.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-25 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   In accordance with G.S. 160D-109, no staff member shall make a final
decision on an administrative decision required by this article if the outcome
of that decision would have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable
financial impact on the staff member or if the applicant or other person
subject to that decision is a person with whom the staff member has a close
familial, business, or other associational relationship. If a staff member has
a conflict of interest under this section, the decision shall be assigned to
the supervisor of the staff person or such other staff person as may be
designated by the development regulation or other ordinance.
   (B)   In accordance with and consistent with the above-referenced statute,
no officer or employee of the Inspections Division shall be financially
interested in the furnishing of labor, material or appliances for the
construction, alteration or maintenance of a building or any part thereof, or
in the making of plans or specifications within the city’s jurisdiction or the
ETJ, unless they are the owner of the building. No officer or employee of the
Inspections Division shall engage in any work which is inconsistent with their
duties or with the interests of the city.
   (C)   In accordance with G.S. 160D-1108, staff members, agents, or
contractors responsible for building inspections shall comply with G.S. 160D-
109(c). No member of the Inspections Division shall be financially interested
or employed by a business that is financially interested in the furnishing of
labor, material, or appliances for the construction, alteration, or maintenance
of any building within the city’s planning and development regulation
jurisdiction or any part or system thereof, or in the making of plans or
specifications therefor, unless he or she is the owner of the building. No
member of an Inspections Division or other individual or an employee of a
company contracting with the city to conduct building inspections shall engage
in any work that is inconsistent with their duties or with the interest of the
city, as determined by the city. The city must find a conflict of interest if
any of the following is the case:
      (1)   If the individual, company, or employee of a company contracting to
perform building inspections for the city has worked for the owner, developer,
contractor, or project manager of the project to be inspected within the last
two years.
      (2)   If the individual, company, or employee of a company contracting to
perform building inspections for the city is closely related to the owner,
developer, contractor, or project manager of the project to be inspected.
      (3)   If the individual, company, or employee of a company contracting to
perform building inspections for the city has a financial or business interest
in the project to be inspected.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-26 REPORTS AND RECORDS.
   The Inspections Division, and each inspector, shall keep complete and
accurate records in a convenient form of all applications received, permits
issued, inspections and re-inspections made, and all other work and activities
of the Inspections Division, pursuant to the North Carolina Record Retention
Laws. Periodic reports shall be submitted to the City Council, and to other
agencies, as required.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-27 STOP WORK ORDERS.
   Whenever any building or structure or part thereof is being demolished,
constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired in a hazardous manner, or in
violation of any provision of this part or any other city ordinance, or in
violation of any provision of any regulatory code herein adopted, or in
violation of the terms of the permit or permits issued therefor, or in such
manner as to endanger life or property, the appropriate inspector may order the
work to be immediately stopped. Such work shall not be resumed until adequate
measures are taken for the protection of life and property and satisfactory
evidence is offered that further work will be prosecuted carefully, in a
workmanlike manner, and in conformity with this article and other ordinances
relating thereto. Violation of a stop work order shall constitute a Class 1
misdemeanor.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Stop work orders, G.S. 160D-404(b)
ARTICLE C. ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS
SEC. 9-1-30 ENFORCEMENT OF BUILDING INSPECTION SERVICES AND HOUSING STANDARDS
IN EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION OF CITY.
   Pursuant to G.S. Chapter 160D, Article 2, the City Council hereby authorizes
the extension and enforcement of building inspection services and minimum
housing standards into the city’s extraterritorial jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Extraterritorial jurisdiction, see G.S. 160D-201
SEC. 9-1-31 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall commence or proceed with the construction, alteration,
repair, removal or demolition of any single building or other structure or part
thereof without a written permit therefor from the Inspections Division except
for building construction that is exempted from permit requirements under the
North Carolina State Building Code. The copy of the permit shall be kept on the
premises for public inspection during the prosecution of the work and until
completion of the same. An identification placard showing the permit number
signed by the Inspections Division shall be conspicuously posted on the site
readily visible from the street.
   (B)   A permit for the demolition of any single building or structure or
part thereof shall be issued only to the following:
      (1)   A general contractor licensed by the North Carolina Licensing Board
for General Contractors; or
      (2)   A demolition contractor; or
      (3)   An owner.
      Any person receiving a permit under this subsection shall, in the
performance of the work, comply with the State Building Code and all other
applicable state and local laws, rules and regulations.
   (C)   No person shall erect, alter or repair any billboard or sign without
first securing a permit from the Inspections Division, except for sign
construction that is exempt from permit requirements under the North Carolina
State Building Code. Said exemption does not apply to any requirements for
development approvals, including permits, issued by the Planning Division.
   (D)   All applications for permits required by this article shall be
approved or disapproved by the Inspections Division within a reasonable period
from the date of filing thereof. Such applications shall be approved if the
work proposed to be done conforms to the requirements of this article, the
zoning ordinance, and other ordinances relating thereto.
   (E)   Failure to apply for and obtain any required building permit prior to
commencement of a construction, alteration, repair, removal or demolition shall
incur an additional fee in an amount of twice the permit fee itself or a
minimum of $100.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Building permits, G.S. 160D-1110 et seq.
SEC. 9-1-32 LIMITATIONS ON ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued for any building or structure when
the estimated total cost of which is more than outlined in the North Carolina
General Statutes unless the work is to be performed by a licensed general
contractor. Exceptions may be granted pursuant to G.S. 87-14.
   (B)   No building permit shall be issued for any building or structure,
other than a one or two-family building or structure, if the estimated total
cost is more than what is outlined in the North Carolina Administrative Code,
unless the plans bear the North Carolina seal of a registered architect or a
registered engineer.
   (C)   Where any provision(s) of the North Carolina General Statutes or of
any ordinance require that work be done by a licensed specialty contractor of
any kind, no permit for the work shall be issued unless it is to be performed
by the licensed specialty contractor.
   (D)   Where detailed plans and specifications are required under this
chapter, no building permit shall be issued unless the plans and specifications
have been provided.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Building permits, G.S 160D-1110
SEC. 9-1-33 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Applications shall be completed and submitted electronically through the
city’s Inspections Division permitting software for all permits required by
this chapter. Such application shall be completed by the owner of the building
or structure affected or by his authorized agent or representative. The owner
shall authorize any work for which a building permit is required.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Building permits, G.S. 160D-1110
SEC. 9-1-34 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   When proper application for a permit has been made, and the appropriate
inspector is satisfied that the application and the proposed work comply with
the provisions of this chapter and the appropriate technical and regulatory
codes, upon payment of the proper fee or fees as provided in section 9-1-38,
they shall issue the permit.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-35 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   The Chief Building Inspector or their designee may revoke and require the
return of any building permit by notifying the permit holder in writing,
stating the reason for the revocation. Building permits shall be revoked for
any substantial departure from the approved application, plans, or
specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with the requirements of any
applicable state or local laws; or for false statements or misrepresentations
made in securing the permit. Any building permit mistakenly issued in violation
of an applicable state or local law may also be revoked.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Revocation of building permits, G.S. 160D-1115
SEC. 9-1-36 EXPIRATION OF BUILDING PERMITS.
   Permits issued for the removal or demolition of any building shall expire
six months after the date of issuance. Permits issued for the construction,
alteration or repair of any building shall expire six months after the date of
issuance if the work authorized by the permit has not been commenced. If, after
the commencement of such work, the same is discontinued for a period of 12
months, the permit shall immediately expire. No work authorized by any permit
which has expired shall be done until a new permit is secured.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Expiration of building permits, G.S. 160D-1111   
SEC. 9-1-37 CHANGES IN WORK.
   After a building permit has been issued, no changes or deviations from the
terms of the application, plans and specifications, or the permit, except where
changes or deviations are clearly permissible under the State Building Code,
shall be made until specific written approval of proposed changes or deviations
has been obtained from the Inspections Division.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Changes in work, G.S. 160D-1112
SEC. 9-1-38 PERMIT FEES.
   Fees for building, plumbing, mechanical and electrical permits shall be as
fixed from time to time by the City Council, a schedule of which shall be
maintained in the City of Greenville Manual of Fees.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-39 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision, standard,
occupancy content, or other requirement of this chapter or the regulatory and
technical codes herein adopted or to refuse or fail to comply with any order of
the city or of any inspector made in accordance with this chapter or the
regulatory and technical codes herein adopted. Each day shall be a subsequent
violation.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-40 PENALTIES.
   A violation of this article may subject the violator to any or all of the
following penalties.
   (A)   Criminal. The violation of any provisions of this article shall
constitute a Class 1 misdemeanor, as provided by G.S. 160D-1124.
   (2)   Civil. A violation of any of the provisions of this article shall
subject the violator to a civil penalty by way of a civil ticket in an amount
as follows:
      (1)   First violation. A violation of an order issued by the building
inspector shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $100.
      (2)   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A second
violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein defined
first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
      (3)   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
   (C)   Appeals; payment of civil penalty. Unless appealed in accordance with
section
1-1-20 of the City Code, a civil penalty assessed for a violation of any
provision of this section must be paid to and received by the city’s Financial
Services Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
   (D)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with the appeal provisions of this chapter, if full payment for an
assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the city’s Financial Services
Department, the city may recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the
following methods:
      (a)   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
      (b)   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
      (c)   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105A (the Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
      (d)   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (e)   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect, satisfy, or
otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
   (E)   Separate offenses. Each day’s continuing violation shall be a separate
and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
ARTICLE D. FIRE LIMITS
SEC. 9-1-60 FIRE DISTRICT.
   Pursuant to and for the purposes of G.S. 160D-1128, the fire limits are
hereby declared to be all areas designated as such on the official map of the
City of Greenville, North Carolina, as may be amended from time to time, which
is on file in the office of the City Clerk. Each time the City Council takes
action establishing, altering or abolishing any part of the fire limits, the
City Manager shall promptly direct an appropriate city officer to amend the
official map to reflect the action of the City Council.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-61 RESTRICTIONS WITHIN FIRE LIMITS.
   (A)   As provided in G.S. 160D-1128(c), within the primary fire limits of
any city, as established and defined by ordinance, no frame or wooden building
or structure or addition thereto shall hereafter be erected, altered, repaired,
or moved, either into the limits or from one place to another within the
limits, except upon the permit of the local Inspections Division approved by
City Council and by the Commissioner of Insurance or their designee. The City
Council may make additional regulations for the prevention, extinguishment, or
mitigation of fires within the primary fire limits.
   (B)   As provided in G.S. 160D-1128(d), within any secondary fire limits of
any city or town, as established and defined by ordinance, no frame or wooden
building or structure or addition thereto shall be erected, altered, repaired,
or moved, except in accordance with any rules and regulations established by
ordinance of the areas.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
ARTICLE E. UNSAFE BUILDINGS CONDEMNED
   Statutory reference: G.S. 160D-1119 – 160D-1125
SEC. 9-1-70 DESIGNATION OF UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Every building that shall appear to the inspector to be especially
dangerous to life because of its liability to fire or because of bad condition
of walls, overloaded floors, defective construction, decay, unsafe wiring or
heating systems, inadequate means of egress, or other causes shall be held to
be unsafe, and the inspector shall affix a notice of the dangerous character of
the structure to a conspicuous place on the exterior wall of the building.
   (B)   Nonresidential building or structure. In addition to the authority
granted in subsection (A) of this section, an inspector may declare a
nonresidential building or structure within a community development target area
to be unsafe if it meets all of the following conditions:
      (1)   It appears to the inspector to be vacant or abandoned.
      (2)   It appears to the inspector to be in such dilapidated condition as
to cause or contribute to blight, disease, vagrancy, or fire or safety hazard;
to be a danger to children; or to tend to attract persons intent on criminal
activities or other activities that would constitute a public nuisance.
   (C)   Notice posted on structure. If an inspector declares a nonresidential
building or structure to be unsafe under subsection (B) of this section, the
inspector must affix a notice of the unsafe character of the structure to a
conspicuous place on the exterior wall of the building. For the purposes of
this section, the term "community development target area" means an area that
has characteristics of an urban progress zone under G.S. 143B-437.09, a
"nonresidential redevelopment area" under G.S. 160A-503(10), or an area with
similar characteristics designated by the City Council as being in special need
of revitalization for the benefit and welfare of its citizens.
   (D)   Applicability to residential structures. The City Council may expand
subsections (B) and (C) of this section to apply to residential buildings by
adopting an ordinance. Before adopting such an ordinance, the City Council
shall hold a legislative hearing with published notice as provided by G.S.
160D-601.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-71 REMOVING NOTICE FROM CONDEMNED BUILDING.
   If any person shall remove any notice that has been affixed to any building
or structure by the Inspections Division and that states the dangerous
character of the building or structure, that person shall be guilty of a Class
1 misdemeanor.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-72 FAILURE TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   If the owner of a building or structure that has been condemned as unsafe
pursuant to section
9-1-70 fails to take prompt corrective action, the Inspections Division shall
give written notice, by certified mail to the owner's last known address or by
personal service, of all of the following:
   (A)   That the building or structure is in a condition that appears to meet
one or more of the following conditions:
      (1)   Constitutes a fire or safety hazard.
      (2)   Is dangerous to life, health, or other property.
      (3)   Is likely to cause or contribute to blight, disease, vagrancy, or
danger to children.
      (4)   Has a tendency to attract persons intent on criminal activities or
other activities that would constitute a public nuisance.
   (B)   That an administrative hearing will be held before the inspector at a
designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner will be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter.
   (C)   That following the hearing, the inspector may issue such order to
repair, close, vacate, or demolish the building or structure as appears
appropriate. If the name or whereabouts of the owner cannot, after due
diligence, be discovered, the notice shall be considered properly and
adequately served if a copy is posted on the outside of the building or
structure in question at least ten days prior to the hearing and a notice of
the hearing is published in a newspaper having general circulation in the City
of Greenville at least once not later than one week prior to the hearing.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-73 ORDER TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   If, upon a hearing held pursuant to the notice prescribed in section
9-1-72, the inspector shall find that the building or structure is in a
condition that constitutes a fire or safety hazard or renders it dangerous to
life, health, or other property, the inspector shall make an order in writing,
directed to the owner of such building or structure, requiring the owner to
remedy the defective conditions by repairing, closing, vacating, or demolishing
the building or structure or taking other necessary steps, within such period,
not less than 60 days, as the inspector may prescribe, provided that where the
inspector finds that there is imminent danger to life or other property, the
inspector may order that corrective action be taken in such lesser period as
may be feasible.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)   
SEC. 9-1-74 APPEALS; FINALITY OF ORDER IF NOT APPEALED.
   Any owner who has received an order under section 9-1-73 may appeal from the
order to the City Council by giving notice of appeal in writing to the
Inspections Division and to the City Clerk within ten days following issuance
of the order. In the absence of an appeal, the order of the inspector is final.
The City Council shall hear an appeal in accordance with G.S. 160D-406 and
render a decision within a reasonable time. The City Council may affirm, modify
and affirm, or revoke the order.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-75 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER.
   If the owner of a building or structure fails to comply with an order issued
pursuant to section 9-1-73 from which no appeal has been taken or fails to
comply with an order issued by the City Council following an appeal, the owner
is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-76 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Action authorized. Whenever any violation is denominated a misdemeanor
under the provisions of this article, the Inspections Division, either in
addition to or in lieu of other remedies, may initiate any appropriate action
or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct, or abate the violation or to
prevent the occupancy of the building or structure involved.
   (B)   Removal of building. In the case of a building or structure declared
unsafe under section 9-1-70, the Inspections Division may, in lieu of taking
action under subsection (A) of this section, cause the building or structure to
be removed or demolished. The amounts incurred by the city in connection with
the removal or demolition are a lien against the real property upon which the
cost was incurred. The lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and be
collected in the same manner as liens for special assessments provided in G.S.
Chapter 10, Article 10. If the building or structure is removed or demolished
by the city, the city shall sell the usable materials of the building and any
personal property, fixtures, or appurtenances found in or attached to the
building. The city shall credit the proceeds of the sale against the cost of
the removal or demolition. Any balance remaining from the sale shall be
deposited with the clerk of superior court of the county where the property is
located and shall be disbursed by the court to the person found to be entitled
thereto by final order or decree of the court.
   (C)   Additional lien. The amounts incurred by the city in connection with
the removal or demolition are also a lien against any other real property owned
by the owner of the building or structure and located within the city’s
planning and development regulation jurisdiction, and for cities without
extraterritorial planning and development jurisdiction, within one mile of the
city limits, except for the owner's primary residence. The provisions of
subsection (B) of this section apply to this additional lien, except that this
additional lien is inferior to all prior liens and shall be collected as a
money judgment.
   (D)   Nonexclusive remedy. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
impair or limit the power of the city to define and declare nuisances and to
cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-77 NOTICE OF LIS PENDENS.
   (A)   Filing a notice of lis pendens. Any time after an inspector issues a
written notice under section
9-1-72 applicable to a residential building or structure, any inspector may
file a notice of lis pendens with the Clerk of Superior Court of the county
where the property is located. A copy of the written notice or a copy of the
order to take corrective action shall be attached to the lis pendens. The
notice of lis pendens and a copy of the written notice or order to take
corrective action shall be indexed and cross-indexed in accordance with the
indexing procedures of G.S. 1-117. From the date and time of indexing, the
written notice or order to take corrective action shall be binding upon the
successors and assigns of the owners of and parties in interest in the building
or structure, including any lienholders and tenants who may be determined by
the exercise of reasonable diligence in accordance with G.S. 160D-1121 and the
methods of service procedures set forth in section
9-1-72. The notice of lis pendens shall remain in full force and effect until
it is cancelled.
   (B)   Cancellation of notice of lis pendens. Any inspector may cancel the
notice lis pendens upon a determination by that inspector that the property
fully complies with this article or if the enforcement action is settled,
discontinued or abated. Cancellation of the notice of lis pendens must be made
in a writing signed by the inspector and filed with the Clerk of Superior Court
where the property is located.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-78 ADMINISTRATIVE FEES AND COSTS.
   In addition to any other charge, any owner of a building or structure
located within the city and its extraterritorial jurisdiction shall be subject
to any actual costs incurred by the city in obtaining service including but not
limited to, legal publication and personal delivery costs for notices, and
orders upon the finding at the hearing held pursuant to section
9-1-72, that the building or structure is in an unsafe condition as defined by
this article or state law.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
ARTICLE F. MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
SEC. 9-1-90 MINIMUM HOUSING CODE.
   The rules and regulations prescribed by this article shall be known and may
be cited as “The Minimum Housing Code of the City of Greenville” and may be
referred to in this article as “this Code.”
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-91 FINDING; PURPOSE.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. 160D-1201, it is hereby found and declared that there
exists in the city dwellings which are unfit for human habitation due to
dilapidation, defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents or other
calamities, lack of ventilation, light or sanitary facilities, or due to other
conditions rendering such buildings or structures unsafe or unsanitary, or
dangerous or detrimental to the health, safety, morals, or otherwise inimical
to the welfare of the residents of the city.
   (B)   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the city as authorized by G.S. Chapter 160D, Article 12, it is the purpose of
this article to establish minimum standards and requirements for the initial
and continued occupancy of all dwellings used for human habitation, as
expressly authorized by G.S. § 160D-1201–160D-1212. This section does not
replace or modify requirements otherwise established for the construction,
repair, alteration or use of buildings, equipment or facilities, except as
provided in this chapter.
   (C)   The purpose of this article is to remedy and prevent the decay and
deterioration of dwellings and to eliminate blighted neighborhoods by providing
standards for dwellings for the protection of the life, health, safety, welfare
and property of the general public and owners and occupants of dwellings.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-92 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this article shall apply to any dwelling within the
corporate limits of the city and beyond and surrounding the corporate limits
within a line which constitutes the boundary of the city’s extraterritorial
jurisdiction, as described on the map maintained in the office of the City
Clerk, as the same may be amended from time to time, as provided by law.
Portable, mobile or demountable dwellings, including trailers, when used or
intended for use for housing or occupancy within the city shall be subject to
the applicable provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-93 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   Abandoned structure. Any dwelling thereon that has been vacant or not in
active use, regardless of purpose or reason, for the past six month period and
is maintained in an uninhabitable condition or a condition of disrepair or
deterioration and which is determined by the Code Enforcement Supervisor or
officer to be unfit for human habitation or occupancy based upon the standards
as set forth in this article.
   Accessory structure. A structure that is a detached building, like a shed,
that is on the same lot as the main building or structure, but is used for a
different purpose other than a dwelling.
   Basement. A story having a clear height of at least seven feet from finished
floor to finished ceiling, the floor level of which is below finished grade but
not less than four feet below the average finished grade, having floor and
walls of approved construction, and/or having direct access to light and air
from windows located above the level of the adjoining ground.
   Building. Any structure enclosed and isolated by exterior walls constructed
or used for residence, business, industry or other public or private purposes,
or accessory hereto, and also tents, fences and similar structures, whether
stationary or movable.
   Cellar. A portion of a building or structure which is located partly or
wholly underground, having an inadequate access to light and air from windows
located partly or wholly below the level of the adjoining ground.
   Certificate of compliance. Written certification by the Code Enforcement
Supervisor or officer that a building or structure is in compliance with this
article.
   Close. Securing the building or structure so that unauthorized persons
cannot gain entrance to the building.
   Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer. The person(s) authorized to enforce
the provisions of this article.
   Demolish. Means the demolition and removal of the entire dwelling, leaving
the property free and clear of any debris and without holes or pockets which
may retain water.
   Deteriorated. A dwelling that is unsafe or unfit for human habitation and
can be repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum
standards of fitness established by this article at a cost not in excess of 50%
of its physical value, as determined by a finding of the Code Enforcement
Supervisor or officer.
   Dilapidated. A dwelling that is unsafe or unfit for human habitation and
cannot be repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum
standards of fitness established by this article at a cost not in excess of 50%
of its physical value, as determined by a finding of the Code Enforcement
Supervisor or officer.
   Dwelling. Any building, structure, manufactured home, or mobile home, or
part thereof, used and occupied for human habitation or intended to be so used,
and includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually
enjoyed therewith. For the purposes of G.S. Chapter 160D, Article 12. The term
does not include any manufactured home, mobile home, or recreational vehicle,
if used solely for a seasonal vacation purpose.
   Dwelling unit. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit, with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   Extermination. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; or by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved by
the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer.
   Garbage. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food. This definition shall include any
other matter that is also subject to decomposition, decay, putrefaction or the
generation of noxious or offensive gases or odors or which before, during or
after decay may serve as feeding or breeding material for animals or flies or
other insects.
   Governing body. The City Council.
   Impervious to water (as to floors). A clean, smooth floor, without cracks or
holes, made of terrazzo, ceramic, asphalt or rubber tile, smooth concrete,
linoleum or other similar material, or made of wood, and, if made of wood, then
with tightly fitting joints, covered with varnish, lacquer or other similar
water-resistant coating.
   Infestation. The presence, within or contiguous to, a dwelling or premises
of insects, rodents, vermin or other pests.
   Maintenance of a building, structure, apparatus or equipment. The way or
manner in which any such building, structure, appliance, apparatus or equipment
is serviced repairs or altered to perpetuate the use or purpose for which such
building, structure, appliance, apparatus or equipment was originally intended.
   Manufactured home (mobile home). A structure as defined in G.S. 143-145(7).
   Occupant. Any person over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in, or having actual possession of a building or structure.
   Operator. Any person who has charge, care or control of a dwelling, or part
thereof, in which units are let.
   Owner. Any person, group of persons, or any entity owning or lawfully
possessing, keeping, or having care, custody, or control of any property
covered by this article. In the case of real property, the owner includes the
authorized agent or property manager of the owner or any tenant.
   Parties in interest. All individuals, associations, and corporations that
have interests of record in a building or structure and any that are in
possession of a dwelling.
   Physical value. The Pitt County property tax listing (as adjusted by the
Pitt County Assessor, or pursuant to the Assessor’s instruction), not including
land value. Such value shall be binding unless the owner provides for delivery
of a written appraisal conducted within 365 days of the order as to the
reasonable value of the building or structure, prepared by a North Carolina
state certified residential appraiser within ten days after receipt of an order
from the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer. Such written appraisal shall
be binding and conclusive for purposes of this code.
   Pier. A masonry support extending from the ground and footing to and
supporting the dwelling or portion thereof. Pier sizes and spacing shall
conform to the specifications of the State Building Code.
   Plumbing. Includes all of the following supplied facilities and equipment:
gas pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes, mechanical garbage disposal
units (mechanical sink grinders), waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed
dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes washing
machines, catch basins, drains, vents and any other similar supplied fixtures,
together with all connections to water, sewer or gas lines.
   Public authority. The Greenville Housing Authority or any officer who is in
charge of any department or branch of government of the City of Greenville or
of Pitt County or the State of North Carolina relating to health, fire,
building regulations or other activities concerning dwellings in the City of
Greenville.
   Public space or common space. The space within any dwelling which is open to
use by the general public or the occupants of more than one building or
structure.
   Repair, alter, or improve. The work is workmanlike and performed in a
workmanlike manner.
   Rooming house. Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing one or
more units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to three or more
persons who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or father, sister
or brother of the owner or operator.
   Rubbish. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage and
ashes, and the term shall include paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior,
rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral
matter, glass crockery and dust.
   State Building Code. The North Carolina State Building Code, as may be
amended from time to time, or any superseding regulation.
   Structure. Anything constructed or placed upon a property which is supported
by the ground or which is supported by any other structure, except a currently
operable licensed vehicle.
   Substantial. A dwelling or fence is firmly constructed, sturdy, safe, sound,
solid, or stout in a manner to adequately perform its original purpose.
   Supplied. Paid for, furnished or provided by or under the control of the
owner or operator.
   Temporary housing. Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure, or to any utilities system on the same premises
for more than 30 consecutive days.
   Tenant. Any person, who alone or jointly or severally with others, occupies
a dwelling under an oral or written lease or holds a legal tenancy in a
dwelling
   Unfit for human habitation. A dwelling which contains any of the following
conditions which the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer shall have found
render the dwelling dangerous or injurious to the health or safety of the
occupants of the dwelling or neighboring dwellings or other residents of the
city:
      (1)   Interior walls or vertical studs which seriously lean or buckle to
such an extent as to render the building or structure unsafe;
      (2)   Supporting and nonsupporting member or members which show damage or
deterioration;
      (3)   Floors or roofs which have improperly distributed loads which are
overloaded or which have insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the
purpose used;
      (4)   Such damage by fire, wind or other causes as render the dwelling
unsafe;
      (5)   Dilapidation, decay, unsanitary conditions or disrepair which is
dangerous to the health, safety or general welfare of the occupants of the
dwelling, neighboring dwellings, or other residents;
      (6)   Inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire, accident or other
calamities;
      (7)   Defects significantly increasing hazards of fire, accident or other
calamities;
      (8)   Lack of adequate ventilation, light, heating or sanitary facilities
to such an extent as to endanger the health, safety or general welfare of the
occupants or other residents of the city;
      (9)   Lack of proper electrical heating or plumbing facilities required
by this article which constitute a health or safety hazard;
      (10)   Lack of adequate weatherization;
      (11)   Lack of an operable smoke detector;
      (12)   Lack of connection to a potable water supply and/or to the public
sewer or other approved sewage disposal system, the lack of either one of which
renders a dwelling unfit for human habitation. For the purposes of this
standard, a dwelling is not connected to a potable water supply if the water
supply has been cut off because of nonpayment of the water bill or otherwise or
if the system for any reason is not receiving a flow of potable water to the
tap; or
      (13)   Any combination of substandard items which in the judgment of the
Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer renders any dwelling dangerous or
injurious to the health, safety, or general welfare of the occupants of the
dwelling, the occupants of neighboring dwellings, or other residents of the
city.
   Ventilation. The adequate supply and removal of air to and from a space
through windows, skylights, doors, louvers, grilles, ducts or other similar
devices.
   Weather tight. So constructed that dwellings resists weather and excludes
rain and snow, and prevents the infiltration of air.
   Workmanlike manner. Repairs, alterations, and improvements shall be
performed in accordance with accepted standards of each trade using quality
materials and craftsmanship.
   (B)   Whenever the term “dwelling” is used in this article, it shall be
construed as though followed by the phrase “or any part thereof.”
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-94 MINIMUM STANDARDS OF FITNESS FOR DWELLINGS.
   (A)   Every dwelling used as a human habitation, or held out for use as a
human habitation, shall comply with all of the minimum standards of fitness and
all of the requirements of this article. No person shall occupy as owner-
occupant, or let to another for occupancy or use as a human habitation, any
dwelling which does not comply with all of the minimum standards of fitness for
human habitation and all of the requirements of this article. All work shall be
done in a workmanlike manner.
   (B)   All structural repairs, alterations, or improvements to dwelling shall
be performed in compliance with all applicable requirements of the State
Building Code.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-95 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR STRUCTURAL CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Foundation.
      (1)   A foundation wall system shall support the building at all points
and shall be free of holes, cracks, and loose mortar or masonry which would
admit rodents, water or dampness to the interior of the building or which
lessen the capability of the foundation to support the building.
      (2)   There shall be sound footings and adequate bearing.
      (3)   Piers shall be sound with no loose mortar or masonry.
      (4)   There shall be no wood stiff-knee piers.
      (5)   All underpinning shall be in good order and meet the minimum
ventilation requirements set forth by the State Building Code.
      (6)   All masonry block and brick foundation systems or components shall
have mortared or bonded joints.
      (7)   Every crawlspace door, doorway, or hatchway shall be maintained to
prevent the entrance of rainwater and surface drainage water.
      (8)   Screening shall be provided for all crawlspace vents or openings.
   (B)   Floors.
      (1)   There shall not be decayed, termite-damaged, fire-damaged, broken,
overloaded or sagging sills that adversely affect the structural integrity of
the building framing system.
      (2)   Joists shall not be decayed or broken so as to adversely affect the
structural integrity of the floor framing system.
      (3)   Flooring shall be weathertight without holes or cracks which permit
excessive air to penetrate rooms.
      (4)   There shall be no loose flooring.
      (5)   Bathroom and kitchen flooring surface shall be constructed and
maintained so as to be reasonably impervious to water and so as to permit the
flooring to be easily kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
      (6)   All floor covering or finishing shall be constructed and maintained
as not to constitute a trip hazard and kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
      (7)   There shall be no use of the ground for floors, or wood floors on
the ground.
      (8)   Flooring shall be reasonably smooth and not decayed, fire damaged
or worn through.
      (9)   Floors shall be reasonably level.
   (C)   Exterior walls.
      (1)   The exterior of a dwelling shall be maintained in good repair,
structurally sound and sanitary so as not to pose a threat to the public
health, safety or welfare.
      (2)   All wood and metal surfaces including but not limited to, window
frames, doors, door frames, cornices, porches and trim shall be maintained in
good condition. Peeling, flaking and chipped paint shall be eliminated and
surfaces repainted.
      (3)   All structural members shall be maintained free from deterioration
and shall be capable of safely supporting the imposed dead and live loads.
      (4)   All exterior walls shall be free from holes, breaks, loose or
rotting materials; and maintained weatherproof and properly surface coated
where required to prevent deterioration.
      (5)   All decorative features shall be maintained in good repair with
proper anchorage and in a safe condition.
      (6)   All chimneys, cooling towers, smoke stacks, and similar
appurtenances shall be maintained structurally safe and sound and in good
repair.
   (D)   Interior walls.
      (1)   The interior finish shall be free of holes and excessive cracks
which permit air to penetrate rooms and, if painted or papered, shall be free
of chips or excessive peeling.
      (2)   Interior wall finishes and trim shall be free of stains or moisture
damage caused by leaks from roofing, or other sources.
      (3)   No loose plaster, loose boards or other loose wall materials shall
be allowed.
      (4)   There shall be no cardboard, newspaper or highly combustible or
improper wall finish; all wall materials shall be of the same or similar
quality and material.
      (5)   There shall be no decayed or termite-damaged studs.
      (6)   There shall be no broken or cracked studs or other broken or
cracked structure members allowed.
   (E)   Ceilings.
      (1)   There shall be no joists or beams which are decayed or broken,
sagging or improperly supported.
      (2)   There shall be no holes or excessive cracks which permit air to
penetrate rooms.
      (3)   There shall be no loose plaster, boards, gypsum wall board or other
ceiling finish.
      (4)   There shall be no evidence of water damage.
      (5)   There shall be no cardboard, newspaper or highly combustible or
improper wall finish; all wall materials shall be of the same or similar
quality and material.
   (F)   Roof.
      (1)   Roofing shall be provided to prevent the entrance of moisture and
shall be maintained by renewal, repair, waterproofing or other suitable means.
      (2)   Gutters and downspouts, if installed, shall be provided to properly
collect, conduct and discharge the water from the roof and away from the
dwelling.
      (3)   Roofs shall be supported and no rafters shall be rotted, broken,
sagging or have improperly supported ends.
      (4)   Attics, that are required to be ventilated, shall have ventilation
that allows the movement of air to dissipate excessive heat buildup. Heat
buildup is excessive if it causes deterioration of any structural member or
roofing member.
      (5)   Sheathing shall not be rotted, loose or sagging excessively.
      (6)   Roof covering shall not be loose, have missing shingles or other
damaged roofing components, nor have holes, leaks, or evidence of current
leaks.
      (7)   Adequate flashing shall be provided at walls and chimneys in a
manner that continues to be effective.
      (8)   Roofs shall be kept free of vegetation which compromises or
otherwise damages the integrity of materials or function of the roof, roof
overhang, fascia, soffit, gutters, or other portion of the roof structure.
   (G)   Porches or raised platform.
      (1)   Foundation flooring, ceiling and roofing for porches and raised
platforms shall be equal to standards set forth in this section, except sills,
joists, and floors need not be level if providing drainage of floors; floors
need not be weather tight; the ceiling height may be seven feet; and the attic
need not be vented.
      (2)   Roof post and attached railings shall be structurally sound.
      (3)   Every porch terrace or raised platform located at least 30 inches
above the adjacent finished grade shall be equipped with guardrails not less
than 36 inches high, unless other effective barriers provide adequate safety.
Open guardrails shall have intermediate rails such that a six-inch sphere
cannot pass through any opening.
   (H)   Stairs and steps.
      (1)   Stairs and steps shall be free of holes, grooves, and cracks large
enough to constitute accident hazards.
      (2)   Stairwells and flights of stairs more than four risers high shall
have rails not less than 34 inches measured vertically from the nose of the
treads to the top of the rail.
      (3)   Every rail shall be firmly fastened and maintained in good
condition.
      (4)   No flight of stairs shall be settled more than one inch out of its
intended position or pulled away from supporting or adjacent structures.
      (5)   Supports shall not sag and shall be structurally sound and not
likely to cause structural weakness in the future.
      (6)   Every stair riser shall be reasonably uniform in height, and treads
shall be reasonably uniform in front to back width, sound and securely fastened
in position and strong enough to bear a concentrated load of at least 300
pounds without danger of breaking through.
      (7)   Every exit stairway, deck porch, landing, balcony, exit, and all
appurtenances shall be structurally sound with proper anchorage, and capable of
supporting imposed loads.
   (I)   Painting. Effective January 1, 1995, all exterior surfaces of
dwellings not inherently resistant to deterioration shall be treated with a
protective coating, such as paint or other suitable preservative, with
sufficient frequency to prevent deterioration. All such portions shall be
cleaned and free of flaking, loose or defective surfacing materials prior to
painting or coating. All interior loose or peeling wall covering or paint shall
be removed and the exposed surface shall be placed in a smooth and sanitary
condition. No paint shall be used for interior painting of any dwelling that
exceeds the amount of lead paint pigment as established by the Consumer
Products Safety Commission. Paint chips or paint dust shall not be left on
interior or exterior surfaces of the building or structure, or on the premises.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-96 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BASIC EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   Plumbing system.
      (1)   All plumbing to be installed shall be installed in accordance with
the State Plumbing Code.
      (2)   All plumbing shall be connected to the city sanitary sewer system
where available or to another approved system.
      (3)   All fixtures shall be operable.
      (4)   There shall be no broken water closet bowls.
      (5)   Water closets shall not be loose or leaking. Water closet flush
mechanisms shall be maintained in operating condition.
      (6)   No leaks shall be in a shower stall floor and/or wall.
      (7)   There shall be facilities for furnishing adequate hot water to each
tub or shower, lavatory, and kitchen sink. All water heaters shall be in good
condition, operate as intended, and comply with the current State Building Code
at the time of construction.
      (8)   There shall be installed a potable water supply inside the building
or structure for each unit.
      (9)   There shall be installed a water closet, tub or shower, lavatory
and sink for each habitable unit. Kitchen and bathroom faucets shall be sealed.
      (10)   There shall be separate toilet facilities for each habitable unit.
      (11)   Toilet and bathing facilities shall be protected from the weather.
      (12)   Soil and water pipes shall be supported with no broken or leaking
pipes.
      (13)   Every water closest compartment floor surface and bathroom floor
surface shall be so constructed and maintained as to be reasonably impervious
to water and so as to permit such floor to be readily kept in a clean and
sanitary condition.
   (B)   Heating system.
      (1)   Every dwelling shall be weatherproof and capable of being
adequately heated, and the heating equipment in every dwelling shall be
maintained in good order and repair.
      (2)   Every dwelling shall have facilities for providing heat in
accordance with either of the following:
         (a)   Central and electric heating systems. Every central or electric
heating system shall be of sufficient capacity so as to heat all habitable
rooms, bathrooms and water closet compartments in every place of habitation to
which it is connected to a minimum temperature of 68 degrees Fahrenheit
measured at a point three feet above the floor with an outside temperature of
20 degrees Fahrenheit.
         (b)   Other heating facilities. Where a central or electric heating
system is not provided, or is inadequate, each dwelling shall be provided with
sufficient chimneys flues, or gas vents, with heating appliances connected, so
as to heat all habitable rooms to a minimum temperature of 68 degrees
Fahrenheit measured at a point three feet above the floor with an outside
temperature of 20 degrees Fahrenheit.
      (3)   All electric, gas and oil heating equipment installed on the
premises shall be listed and labeled by an approved listing agency and
installed in accordance with the provisions of the State Mechanical Code.
      (4)   There shall be no loose bricks in chimneys.
      (5)   There shall be no holes in flues.
      (6)   There shall be no hanging masonry chimneys.
      (7)   No combustible materials shall be within seven inches of the top
and seven inches of either side of the fireplace opening.
      (8)   Fireplaces shall be closed with masonry when the chimney is used as
a flue for a stove.
      (9)   Fireplaces, freestanding kerosene heaters, freestanding electric
space heaters, and vent free gas appliances may be used for supplementary
heating only and not for basic heat.
      (10)   When air conditions or cooling facilities are provided, such
facilities and components shall be properly installed, safely operable, and
maintained to perform as originally intended.
   (C)   Electrical system.
      (1)   In dwellings, no receptacles, ceiling fixtures, or other fixtures
shall be hanging loose.
      (2)   All switches and receptacles shall be safely operable.
      (3)   Every habitable unit shall contain not less than two wall-type
electrical convenience receptacles.
      (4)   There shall be installed in every habitable unit, bathroom, laundry
room, hallway, stairway and furnace room at least one supplied ceiling or wall-
type electrical light fixture; provided, further, that the ceiling light
fixture may be omitted in the living room and bedrooms, provided three
electrical convenience receptacles are installed, one of which is controlled
from a wall switch.
      (5)   There shall be no unsafe wiring.
      (6)   Each habitable unit shall have electric service from a separately
metered delivery system provided by a licensed utility company. No drop cords,
extension cords or similar wiring mechanism may be utilized in any fashion
other than in conformance with the purposes in which it was designed.
      (7)   No circuits shall be overloaded.
      (8)   Fuses shall be sized correctly and not bridged out.
      (9)   All new wiring to be installed shall be in accordance with the
National Electrical Code.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-97 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR SMOKE AND CARBON MONOXIDE DETECTORS.
   (A)   Smoke detectors.
      (1)   Smoke detectors, either battery-operated or electrical, having the
approval of Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc., shall be installed in each
sleeping room and outside each separate sleeping area in the immediate vicinity
of the bedrooms.
      (2)   After December 31, 2012, when installing a new smoke alarm or
replacing an existing smoke alarm, install a tamper-resistant, ten-year lithium
battery smoke alarm. However, said design is not required in either of the
following circumstances:
         (a)   The dwelling is equipped with a hardwired smoke alarm with a
battery backup.
         (b)   The dwelling is equipped with a smoke detector combined with a
carbon monoxide detector that meets the requirements provided in subsection
(B).
   (B)   Carbon monoxide detectors. Dwellings shall have a minimum of one
operable carbon monoxide detector per level, either battery-operated or
electrical, that is listed by a nationally recognized testing laboratory (such
as Underwriters Laboratories). This section applies only to dwellings having a
fossil-fuel burning heater, appliance, or fireplace, and in any building or
structure having an attached garage. Any operable carbon monoxide detector
installed before January 1, 2010, shall be deemed to be in compliance with this
section.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-98 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR LIGHT AND VENTILATION.
   (A)   The window-glazed area in each habitable room of a dwelling shall not
be less than 8% of the floor area or eight square feet, whichever is greater.
   (B)   The openable window area in each habitable room in a dwelling shall be
equal to at least one-half of the minimum allowance window area and facing
directly to the outside for ventilation unless the room is served by an
approved ventilating system.
   (C)   All windows and doors opening to the outside shall be adequately
screened unless the room is served by an approved ventilating system. Screens
shall fit openings snugly, and the screen mesh shall not be torn or otherwise
defective.
   (D)   Screens shall not be permanently fixed to the window frame or sash.
   (E)   Bathrooms shall provide ventilation through natural or mechanical
means to the outside.
   (F)   All windows and doors in dwellings opening to the outside shall be
reasonable weather tight, free of cracked or broken glass, and shall have
operable locks. Any glazed area shall be glass.
   (G)   Kitchen exhaust equipment shall be operable, maintained, and vented to
exterior. Ductless range hoods are not required to be vented to the exterior.
   (H)   Clothes dryer vents and ducts shall terminate on the exterior. Screens
of a type that may trap lint shall not be installed at the termination. All
ductwork shall be properly supported and free of obstructions which impede air
flow.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-99 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR SPACE, USE, AND LOCATION.
   (A)   Those habitable rooms, which must be included to meet the foregoing
minimum space requirements, shall be at least seven feet wide in any part with
at least one-half of the floor area having a ceiling height as prescribed by
the State Building Code. Not more than 50% of the required area may have a
sloped ceiling less than the height prescribed by the State Building Code, with
no portion of the required area less than five feet in height. If any room has
a furred ceiling, the prescribed ceiling height is required for at least 50% of
the area thereof, but in no case shall the height of the furred ceiling be less
than that prescribed by the State Building Code.
   (B)   No basement shall be used as a habitable room or housing unit unless;
      (1)   The floor and walls are impervious to leakage of underground and
surface runoff water and are insulated against dampness and condensation.
      (2)   The total windows area in each room is equal to at least the window
area sizes prescribed for habitable rooms. (See section
9-1-98 for light and ventilation requirements.)
      (3)   Such required window area is located entirely above the grade of
the ground adjoining such window unless provided with adequate window wells.
      (4)   The total openable window area in each room is equal to at least
the area prescribed for habitable rooms (see section
9-1-98 for light and ventilation requirements), except where there is supplied
some other device affording adequate ventilation and approved by the Code
Enforcement Supervisor or officer.
   (C)   Toilet and bathing facilities shall be enclosed.
   (D)   There shall be no holes or excessive cracks in walls, ceilings,
outside doors or outside windows.
   (E)   Doors shall be provided at all doorways leading to bedrooms, toilet
rooms, and bathrooms and all rooms adjoining a public space. All interior doors
and hardware shall be in good conditions, and free from defects or damage which
prevents the door from operating as intended.
   (F)   All doors providing access to any dwelling shall have operable locks,
and, in the case of dwellings, the owner or operator shall provide a change of
locks or keys for new tenants.
   (G)   All doors opening to the outside shall be reasonably weathertight.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-100 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR SAFE AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Dwellings.
      (1)   Exterior wood surfaces not inherently resistant to deterioration
shall be treated with a protective coating of paint or other suitable
preservative with sufficient frequency to prevent deterioration.
      (2)   Floors, walls, ceilings, and fixtures shall be maintained in a
clean and sanitary condition.
      (3)   Every dwelling and all parts thereof used or occupied as a place of
habitation shall be kept in good repair, in safe condition and fit for human
habitation. The roof and walls of all such dwellings shall be maintained so as
not to leak; and all means of draining water therefrom shall be maintained as
to prevent dampness in the walls, ceiling or crawl space or basement.
      (4)   All materials shall be of similar design and similar quality and
shall meet the applicable standards set forth in the North Carolina State
Building Code. Plumbing, mechanical, and electrical components shall meet the
applicable standards set forth in the North Carolina State Building Code. The
quality of workmanship shall be based on standards generally accepted in the
construction industry.
      (5)   No dwelling or portion of a dwelling shall be permitted to have any
door or windows boarded, secured, or obstructed with wood, plywood or other
opaque material, unless authorized by the Code Enforcement Supervisor or
officer. The Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer shall establish a policy
regarding securing a dwelling.
      (6)   Premises identification. Dwellings being used as a place of
habitation shall have approved address numbers, buildings numbers or approved
building identification that is plainly legible and placed in a position
visible from the street or road fronting the property. These numbers shall
contrast with their background. Address numbers shall be a minimum of four
inches high with a minimum stroke of one-half inch.
   (B)   Open areas.
      (1)   Fences and all accessory buildings or structures shall be
maintained in a safe and substantial condition, and be kept in good repair.
Accessory buildings or structures shall include, but are not limited to sheds,
storage buildings and detached carports and garages.
      (2)   Retaining walls or any other wall supporting systems shall not
present a physical hazard and shall be structurally safe and supported
properly.
      (3)   Sidewalks and driveways. All sidewalks, walkways, stairs,
driveways, parking spaces and similar areas shall be kept in a proper state or
repair, and maintained free from hazardous conditions.
   (C)   Infestation. Grounds, dwellings shall be maintained free of
infestation by rodents, insects and other pests. (See section
9-1-102 for regulations.)
   (D)   Garbage and rubbish. There shall be adequate sanitary facilities and
methods used for the storage, handling, and disposal of garbage and rubbish.
   (E)   Kitchen and bathroom countertops and cabinets shall be covered by
nonabsorbent material and maintained so as to easily be kept clean and in
sanitary condition.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-101 MINIMUM STANDARD TO MEANS OF EGRESS AND EXITS.
   (A)   Means of egress.
      (1)   Every dwelling shall have safe, unobstructed means of egress with a
minimum ceiling height of seven feet leading to a safe and open space at ground
level.
      (2)   Every exterior, cellar or basement door and hatchway shall be
substantially weathertight and rodent-proof, and shall be kept in sound working
condition and good repair.
      (3)   Every exterior door shall be provided with properly installed
hardware that is maintained to ensure reasonable ease of operation to open,
close and secure as intended by the manufacturer of the door and attached
hardware.
      (4)   Exterior door frames shall be properly maintained and shall be
affixed with weatherstripping and thresholds as required to be substantially
weathertight, watertight and rodent- and insect-resistant when the door is in a
closed position.
      (5)   Exterior door jams, stops, headers and molding shall be securely
attached to the structure, maintained in good condition without splitting or
deterioration that would minimize the strength and security of the door in a
closed position.
      (6)   All exterior doors shall have manufactured locks specifically
designed for use with exterior doors requiring a key to be unlocked from the
outside.
      (7)   Every sleeping room shall have at least one openable window or
exterior door approved for emergency egress or rescue. The units must be
operable from the inside to a full clear opening without the use of a key or
tool. Where windows are provided as a means of egress or rescue they shall have
a sill height of not more than 44 inches above the floor.
      (8)   All egress or rescue windows from sleeping rooms must have a net
clear opening of four square feet. The minimum net clear opening height shall
be 22 inches. The minimum net clear opening width shall be 20 inches. Each
egress window from sleeping rooms must have a minimum total glass area of not
less than five square feet in the case of a second story window.
      (9)   Bars, grills, screens or other obstructions placed over emergency
escape windows shall be releasable or removable from the inside without the use
of a key or tool.
   (B)   Exits.
      (1)   There shall be one main exit, each at least 30 inches wide and six
feet eight inches high, easily accessible to the occupants of each dwelling.
All exit doors must be easily operable and remotely located. (See the State
Building Code: Residential Code for exemptions.)
      (2)   Platforms, steps, and/or handrails provided to serve exits shall be
maintained in safe condition.
      (3)   There shall be a safe, continuous and unobstructed exit from the
interior of the dwelling to the exterior at street or grade level.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-102 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR CONTROL OF INSECTS, RODENTS, AND
INFESTATIONS.
   (A)   Screens. For protection against mosquitoes, flies and other insects
every dwelling shall have:
      (1)   Supplied and installed screens on every door opening leading
directly from the dwelling to outdoor space, except that sliding doors, doors
with a self-closing device, doors on mobile homes with self-closing devices and
doors that open into rooms of living spaces that are artificially ventilated or
air conditioned are exempt from this provision.
      (2)   Supplied and installed screens on every window or other device with
an opening to outdoor space, except that this requirement shall not apply for
any room or rooms of a dwelling that are ventilated year round with an operable
and installed heating and air conditioning system.
   (B)   Rodent control. Every basement or cellar window used or intended to be
used for ventilation and every other opening to a basement which might provide
an entry for rodents shall be supplied with screens installed or such other
approved device as will effectively prevent their entrance.
   (C)   Garbage storage and disposal. Every dwelling unit shall have adequate
garbage disposal facilities or garbage storage containers as required by the
Greenville City Code and the owner, operator or agent in control of the
dwelling or dwelling unit shall be responsible for the removal of garbage. At
least one 32-gallon outside garbage can will be required for single-family
residents.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-103 MINIMUM STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ROOMING HOUSES; EXCEPTIONS.
   All the provisions of this article, and all of the minimum standards and
requirements of this article, shall be applicable to rooming houses, and to
every person who operates a rooming house, or who occupies or lets to another
for occupancy any rooming unit in any rooming house, except as provided in the
following subsections of this article:
   (A)   Water closet, hand lavatory and bath facilities. At least one water
closet, lavatory basin, and bathtub or shower, properly connected to an
approved water system and sewer system and in good working condition, shall be
supplied for each four rooms within a rooming house wherever the facilities are
shared. All such facilities shall be located within the residence building
served and shall be directly accessible from a common hall or passageway and
shall be not more than one story removed from any of the persons sharing the
facilities. Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be supplied with
hot and cold water at all times. Such required facilities shall not be located
in a cellar.
   (B)   Minimum floor area for sleeping purposes. Every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of
floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one
occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each occupant
12 years of age or older and at least 35 square feet of floor area for each
occupant under 12 years of age.
   (C)   Sanitary facilities. Every water closet, flush urinal, lavatory basin,
bathtub or shower required by subsection (A) of this section shall be located
within the rooming house and within a room or rooms which afford privacy and
are separate from habitable rooms, which are accessible from a common hall and
without going outside the rooming house or through any other room therein.
   (D)   Sanitary conditions. The operator of every rooming house shall be
responsible for the sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors and ceilings, and
for the sanitary maintenance of every other part of the rooming house; they
shall further be responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire
premises where the entire structure or building within which the rooming house
is contained is leased or occupied by the operator.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-104 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Responsibilities of occupants.
      (1)   Sanitary maintenance. Every occupant of a dwelling shall keep in a
clean and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling and the premises thereof
which they occupy and control. A clean and sanitary condition shall include,
but is not limited to, the following standards:
         (a)   Floors, floor coverings and other walking surfaces shall be kept
clean and free of dirt, filth, garbage, human and animal wastes, litter, refuse
and any other unsanitary matter;
         (b)   Walls, ceilings, windows and doorways shall be kept clean and
free of dirt, greasy film, soot and any other unsanitary matter;
         (c)   Plumbing fixtures shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition; and no material shall be deposited in any such fixture which may
result in the obstruction of such fixture or of any lines connected thereto.
Every occupant shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable care in the
proper use and operation of all plumbing fixtures; and
         (d)   All screens on windows and doors shall be maintained in good
condition. This subsection shall not be construed as requiring any occupant to
furnish and install, or cause to be installed, screens on windows or doors at
any building or structure.
      (2)   Garbage and rubbish. Every occupant of a (single) dwelling, and of
a (single) unit in a dwelling shall dispose of all garbage and refuse in a
clean and sanitary manner and place it in a proper receptacle as required by
Title 6, Chapter 3 of the City Code. Discarded or abandoned articles of such
bulk as to preclude disposal in such receptacles and refuse not otherwise
collected by the city as defined in Title 6, Chapter 3 of the City Code shall
be conveyed by the occupant to the county landfill or some other approved
private landfill.
      (3)   Heat. Where the heating facilities of any dwelling are under the
control of the occupant thereof, it shall be the responsibility of the occupant
to operate such facilities in order to maintain above-freezing temperatures at
all times in all portions of the dwelling and the premises thereof which they
occupy and control so as to prevent injury or damage to water pipes and
plumbing.
      (4)   Removal of required services, facilities, and the like. No occupant
shall cause any service, facility, equipment or utility, which is required
under this article, to be removed or shut off from, or discontinued for, any
occupied dwelling let or occupied by them, except for such process, or during
temporary emergencies when discontinuance of service is approved by the Code
Enforcement Supervisor or officer.
      (5)   Termination of occupancy. So as to aid in preventing vandalism to
the property, the occupant of a dwelling shall, upon vacating, secure and lock
all doors and windows and openings in the basement and any crawl space and
shall leave the premises clean and free from all debris and trash.
      (6)   Access for repairs. Every occupant of a dwelling shall give the
owner thereof, or their agent or employee, access to any part of such dwelling
and its premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of making such repairs
or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the provisions of
this article or with any lawful order issued pursuant to the provisions of this
article.
      (7)   Accumulation of materials inside a dwelling. Accumulation or
storage of items or materials that result in dangerous, unsafe, or hazardous
conditions shall not be permitted in any habitable portion of a dwelling.
   (B)   Responsibilities of owners.
      (1)   Prohibited occupancy. No owner shall occupy or lease or permit the
subletting to another for occupancy any vacant or vacated dwelling which does
not comply with the provisions of this article, nor shall any owner let to
another any vacant dwelling unless it is reasonably clean, sanitary and fit for
human occupation.
      (2)   Sanitary maintenance. Every owner of a multifamily dwelling
containing four or more units and every owner of a rooming house shall be
responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary condition the shared or
public areas of the dwelling and premises thereof. A clean and sanitary
condition shall include, but is not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The exterior property areas of all premises shall be kept free
of objects and materials, including abandoned or immobile motor vehicles, which
may create a hazard to the health and safety of the occupants or surrounding
community or which is a public nuisance.
         (b)   All sheds, barns, garages, fences and other appurtenant
structures standing on the premises shall be kept in good repair.
         (c)   All required screens shall be furnished and installed in the
building or structure and shall be maintained in good condition.
      (3)   Garbage and rubbish. For every multi-family dwelling containing
four or more units and any rooming house, the owner shall provide, in a
location accessible to all occupants, an adequate number of receptacles or a
stationary bulk refuse container into which garbage and rubbish from the unit’s
receptacles may be emptied for storage between the days of collection as
required by Title 6, Chapter 3 of the City Code. The area surrounding the
receptacles provided by the owner or the stationary bulk refuse container shall
be maintained in such a way as to prevent the scattering of garbage or refuse
on the ground.
      (4)   Removal of required services, facilities, and the like. No owner or
agent of an owner shall cause any service, facility, equipment or utility,
which is required under this article, to be removed or shut off from, or
discontinued for, any occupied dwelling let or occupied by them, except for
such temporary interruption as may be necessary while actual repairs or
alterations are in process, or during temporary emergencies when discontinuance
of service is approved by the Code Enforcement Supervisor or office.
      (5)   Rat-proofing and pest extermination. Every owner of an occupied
dwelling shall be responsible for the extermination of insects, rodents, vermin
or other pests in all areas of the premises; except that the occupant(s) shall
be responsible for such extermination if it is determined by the Code
Enforcement Supervisor or officer they are the cause of said pests. The owner
of any dwelling shall be responsible for extermination within the dwelling
prior to renting or leasing the dwelling. Such extermination shall include, but
is not limited to the following:
         (a)   Preventing the entrance by blocking or stopping up all passages,
by which rats may secure entry from the exterior with rat-impervious material;
         (b)   Preventing the interior infestation by rat stoppage, harborage
removal, the paving of basements, cellars and any other areas which are in
contact with the soil, and such cleanliness as may be necessary to eliminate
rat breeding places;
         (c)   Providing screens or such other devices for basement windows
which might provide a point of entry for rodents.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-105 SPECIAL HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND DISTRICTS.
   All exterior alterations or repairs required by the provisions of this
article to structures that are identified and classified by the City Council as
a designated landmark or being within a historic district must meet the
requirements of the city as administered by the Historic Preservation
Commission.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-106 DUTIES OF CODE ENFORCEMENT SUPERVISOR OR OFFICER.
   The Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer is hereby designated as the
public officer to enforce the provisions of this article and to exercise the
duties and powers herein prescribed. It shall be the duty of the Code
Enforcement Supervisor or officer:
   (A)   To investigate the dwelling conditions and to inspect dwellings
located in the city in order to determine which dwellings are unfit for human
habitation and for the purpose of carrying out the objectives of this article
with respect to the dwellings;
   (B)   To take such action, together with other appropriate departments and
agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect rehabilitation of
housing which is deteriorated;
   (C)   To keep a record of the results of inspections made under this article
and an inventory of those dwellings that do not meet the minimum standards of
fitness herein prescribed; and
   (D)   To perform such other duties as may be herein prescribed.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-107 POWERS OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT SUPERVISOR OR OFFICER.
   The Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer is authorized to exercise such
powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the
purpose and provisions of this article, including the following powers in
addition to others herein granted:
   (A)   To investigate the dwelling conditions in the city in order to
determine which dwellings are unfit for human habitation;
   (B)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
   (C)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations and
inspections, provided that the entries shall be made in accordance with law and
in such manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the persons in
possession; and
   (D)   To appoint and fix duties of such officers, agents and employees as
they deem necessary to carry out the purposes of this article.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-108 ADMINISTRATIVE LIABILITY.
   Except as may otherwise be provided by statute, local law or ordinance, no
city officer, agent, official (elected or appointed) or employee charged with
the enforcement of this article shall be personally liable for any damage that
may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act required or permitted
in the discharge of their duties under this chapter unless they acted with
actual malice.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-109 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   In accordance with G.S. 160D-109, no staff member shall make a final
decision on an administrative decision required by this article if the outcome
of that decision would have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable
financial impact on the staff member or if the applicant or other person
subject to that decision is a person with whom the staff member has a close
familial, business, or other associational relationship. If a staff member has
a conflict of interest under this section, the decision shall be assigned to
the supervisor of the staff person or such other staff person as may be
designated by the development regulation or other ordinance.
   (B)   No staff member shall be financially interested or employed by a
business that is financially interested in a development subject to regulation
under this article unless the staff member is the owner of the land or building
involved. No staff member or other individual or an employee of a company
contracting with a local government to provide staff support shall engage in
any work that is inconsistent with their duties or with the interest of the
local government, as determined by the local government.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-110 INSPECTIONS; DUTY OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   For the purpose of making inspections, the Code Enforcement Supervisor or
officer is hereby authorized to enter, examine and survey at all reasonable
times all dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units, and premises. The owner or
occupant of every dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, or the person in
charge thereof, shall give the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer free
access to the dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit and its premises at all
reasonable times for the purpose of the inspection, examination and survey.
Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall give the owner thereof, or
his or her agent or employee, access to any part of the dwelling or dwelling
unit and its premises, at all reasonable times for the purpose of making the
repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the
provisions of this article or with any lawful order issued pursuant to the
provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-111 PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation; notice; hearing.
      (1)   Whenever a petition is filed with the Code Enforcement Supervisor
or officer by a public authority or by at least five residents of the city at
least 18 years of age charging that any dwelling is unfit for human habitation,
or whenever it appears to the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer, upon
inspection, that any dwelling is unfit for human habitation, they shall, if
their preliminary investigation discloses a basis for the charges, cause to be
served upon the owner and the parties in interest in the dwelling a complaint
stating the charges and containing a notice that an administrative hearing will
be held before the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer at a place and time
fixed in the complaint, not less than ten days nor more than 30 days after the
serving of the complaint.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or the parties in interest upon
whom such complaint has been served to permit any person to occupy any
dwelling, at the time of service of such complaint is vacant, or which shall
subsequently become vacant, until such owner or parties in interest shall have
obtained from the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer a certificate of
compliance. The Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer shall issue such
certificate of compliance upon a determination that the dwelling complies in
all respects with the provisions of this article.
      (3)   The owner or any party in interest shall have the right to correct
the violation or to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, by
phone, or virtually and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the
complaint. Notice of the hearing shall also be given to at least one person
signing a petition relating to the dwelling. Any person desiring to do so may
attend the hearing and give evidence relevant to the matter being heard. The
rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be
controlling in administrative hearings before the Code Enforcement Supervisor
or officer.
   (B)   Notice of lis pendens.
      (1)   Filing a notice of lis pendens. After a Code Enforcement Supervisor
or officer issues a complaint and a notice of hearing or issues findings of
fact and an order pursuant thereto, any Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer
may file a notice of lis pendens with the Clerk of Superior Court of the county
where the property is located. A copy of the complaint and notice of hearing or
a copy of the findings of fact and order shall be attached to the notice of lis
pendens. The notice of lis pendens and a copy of the complaint and notice or
findings of fact and order shall be indexed and cross-indexed in accordance
with the indexing procedures of G.S. 1-117. From the date and time of indexing,
the complaint and notice or findings of fact and order shall be binding upon
the successors and assigns of the owners of and parties in interest in the
building or dwelling at the time of filing. When the notice of lis pendens is
filed with the Clerk, it shall also be served on the owners and parties in
interest in the building or dwelling, including any lienholders and tenants who
may be determined by the exercise of reasonable diligence in accordance with
G.S. 160D-1206 and the method of service procedures set forth in section
9-1-114. The notice of lis pendens shall remain in full force and effect until
it is cancelled.
      (2)   Cancellation of notice of lis pendens. Any Code Enforcement
Supervisor or officer may cancel the notice of lis pendens upon a determination
by the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer that the property fully complies
with this article or if the enforcement action is settled, discontinued or
abated. Cancellation of the notice of lis pendens must be made in a writing
signed by the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer and filed with the Clerk
of Superior Court where the property is located.
   (C)   Procedure after hearing order. After the notice and hearing provided
for in subsection (A), the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer shall state
in writing their determination whether such dwelling is unsafe or unfit for
human habitation and, if so, whether it is deteriorate or dilapidated.
      (1)   If the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer determines that the
dwelling is deteriorated, they shall state in writing their findings of fact in
support of the determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the
owner and parties in interest thereof an order directing and requiring the
owner to repair, alter, or improve the dwelling to comply with the minimum
standards of fitness established by this article or to vacate and close the
dwelling within a specified period of time, not less than 30 days and not more
than 90 days.
      (2)   If the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer determines that the
dwelling is dilapidated, they shall state in writing their findings of fact in
support of that determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the
owner and parties in interest thereof an order directing and requiring the
owner to remove or demolish the same within a specified period of time, not
less than 30 days and not more than 90 days.
   (D)   Failure to comply with order. Remedies for the failure to comply with
the order are as follows:
      (1)   In personam remedy. If the owner of any deteriorated dwelling shall
fail to comply with an order to the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer to
repair, alter or improve or to vacate and close the same within the time
specified therein, or if the owner of a dilapidated dwelling shall fail to
comply with an order of the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer to demolish
and remove the same within the time specified therein, the Code Enforcement
Supervisor or officer may submit to City Council, at its next regular meeting,
a resolution directing the City Attorney to petition the superior court for an
order directing the owner to comply with the order of the Code Enforcement
Supervisor or officer, as authorized by G.S. 160D-1208(d).
      (2)   In rem remedy. After failure of an owner of a deteriorated dwelling
or of a dilapidated dwelling to comply with an order of the Code Enforcement
Supervisor or officer within the time specified therein, if injunctive relief
has not been sought or has not been granted as provided in the preceding
subsection (D)(1), the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer shall submit to
the City Council, at its next regular meeting, an ordinance ordering the Code
Enforcement Supervisor or officer to cause the dwelling to be repaired, altered
or improved, or vacated and closed, or to be demolished and removed as provided
in the original order of the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer. The Code
Enforcement Supervisor or officer may cause to be posted on the main entrance
of the dwelling a placard with the following words: “This dwelling is unfit for
human habitation; the use or occupation of this dwelling for human habitation
is prohibited and unlawful.” Occupation of a dwelling so posted shall
constitute a Class 1 misdemeanor, as provided by G.S. 160D-1203(4).
      (3)   Ejectment. If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate
a dwelling, the Code Enforcement Supervisor may file a civil action in the name
of the City of Greenville to remove such occupant. The action to vacate the
dwelling shall be in the nature of summary ejectment and shall be commenced by
filing a complaint naming as defendant any person occupying such dwelling. The
clerk of superior court shall issue a summons requiring the defendant to appear
before a magistrate at a certain time, date, and place not to exceed ten days
from the issuance of the summons to answer the complaint. The summons and
complaint shall be served as provided in G.S. 42-29. If the summons appears to
have been duly served and if at the hearing the Code Enforcement Supervisor
produces a certified copy of an ordinance adopted by the City Council pursuant
to G.S. 160D-1203(3) and this subsection (D) to vacate the dwelling, the
magistrate shall enter judgment ordering that the premises be vacated and that
all persons be removed. The judgment ordering that the dwelling be vacated
shall be enforced in the same manner as the judgment for summary ejectment
entered under G.S. 42-30. An appeal from any judgment entered hereunder by the
magistrate may be taken as provided in G.S. 7A-228, and the execution of such
judgment may be stayed as provided in G.S. 7A-227. An action to remove an
occupant of a dwelling who is a tenant of the owner may not be in the nature of
a summary ejectment proceeding pursuant to this paragraph unless such occupant
was served with notice at least 30 days before the filing of the summary
ejectment proceeding that the City Council has ordered the Code Enforcement
Supervisor to proceed to exercise their duties under G.S. 160D-1203(3) and this
subsection (D) to vacate and close or remove and demolish the dwelling.
      (4)   Civil penalty. If the owner of a dwelling, determined not to comply
with any of the minimum standards of fitness established by this article but
not determined to be unfit for human habitation, shall fail to comply with an
order of the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer to repair, alter or improve
the same within the time specified therein, then the Code Enforcement
Supervisor or officer may impose the civil fines authorized by section
9-1-119.
      (5)   Filing of ordinances. An ordinance adopted by City Council pursuant
to this section shall be recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of
Pitt County and shall be indexed in the name of the property owner in the
grantor index, as provided by G.S. 160D-1203(6).
   (E)   Appeals from orders of the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer.
      (1)   An appeal from any decision or order of the Code Enforcement
Supervisor or officer may be taken by any person aggrieved thereby. Any appeal
from the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer shall be taken within ten days
from the rendering of the decision or service of the order, and shall be taken
by filing with the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer and with the Board of
Adjustment.
      (2)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of all
appeals, shall give notice to all the parties, and shall render its decision
within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent or
attorney.
      (3)   Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review by
proceedings in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the
decision of the Board, but not otherwise.
   (F)   Petition to Superior Court by owner. Any person aggrieved by an order
issued by the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer or a decision rendered by
the Board of Adjustment shall have the right within 30 days after issuance of
the order or rendering of the decision to petition the superior court for a
temporary injunction restraining the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer
pending a final disposition of the cause, as provided by G.S. 160D-1208(d).
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-112 VACATED AND CLOSED DWELLINGS.
   (A)   If the City Council shall have adopted an ordinance, or the Code
Enforcement Supervisor or officer shall have issued an order, ordering a
dwelling to be repaired, altered or improved or vacated and closed, as provided
in section
9-1-111, and if the owner has vacated and closed the dwelling and kept the
dwelling vacated and closed for a period of six months pursuant to the
ordinance or order, then if the City Council shall find that the owner has
abandoned the intent and purpose to repair, alter or improve the dwelling in
order to render it fit for human habitation and that the continuation of the
dwelling in its vacated and closed status would be inimical to the health,
safety, morals and welfare of the city in that the building or structure would
continue to deteriorate, would create a fire and safety hazard, would be a
threat to children and vagrants, would attract persons intent on criminal
activities, would cause or contribute to blight and the deterioration of
property values in the area, and would render unavailable property and a
dwelling which might otherwise have been made available to ease the persistent
shortage of decent and affordable housing in this state, then in such
circumstances, the City Council may, after the expiration of the six-month
period, enact an ordinance and serve the ordinance on the owner, setting forth
the following:
      (1)   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling to render it
fit for human habitation can be made at a cost not exceeding 50% of the then
current value of the dwelling, the ordinance shall require that the owner
either repair, alter or improve, or demolish and remove the dwelling within 90
days; or
      (2)   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling to render it
fit for human habitation cannot be made at a cost not exceeding 50% of the then
current value of the dwelling, the ordinance shall require that the owner
demolish and remove the dwelling within 90 days.
   (B)   An ordinance adopted pursuant to this section shall be recorded in the
office of the Register of Deeds of Pitt County and shall be indexed in the name
of the property owner in the grantor index. If the owner fails to comply with
that ordinance, the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer shall effectuate the
purpose of the ordinance. The cost to repair, alter, or improve, or demolish
and remove the dwelling shall be a lien against the real property upon which
the cost was incurred. The lien shall be filed, have priority and be collected
in the same manner as the lien for special assessments established by G.S.
Chapter 160A, Article 10.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-113 ABANDONED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Any abandoned structure that is a health or safety hazard as a result
of the attraction of insects or rodents, conditions creating a fire hazard,
dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children, or frequent use by
vagrants as living quarters in the absence of sanitary facilities shall be
repaired, closed, or demolished. It shall be unlawful for the owner of an
abandoned structure to allow the abandoned structure to become or to remain a
health or safety hazard as defined in this subsection.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer shall have the authority to
attempt to accomplish the repair, alteration, or improvement, or closing, or
removal or demolition of the abandoned structure through the procedures set out
in section
9-1-111, except that if the estimated cost to repair the structure is 50% or
more of its value, the structure shall be considered dilapidated, and the Code
Enforcement Supervisor or officer shall order that it be removed or demolished.
Upon the failure of the owner of an abandoned structure to comply with an order
of the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer to repair, alter, or improve, or
close, or remove or demolish such structure, the Code Enforcement Supervisor or
officer shall present the matter to the City Council. If the City Council finds
that the abandoned structure is unsafe pursuant to subsection (A), it may adopt
an ordinance ordering the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer to cause such
abandoned structure to be repaired, altered, or improved, or closed, or removed
or demolished. Each such ordinance shall be recorded as provided in section
9-1-111(D), and the cost of any repair, altering, or improving, closing, or
removal or demolition caused to be made by the Code Enforcement Supervisor or
officer shall be a lien on the premises as provided in section
9-1-115.
   (C)   For the purpose of subsection (A) and (B), the term “abandoned
structure” shall mean any dwelling thereon that has been vacant or not in
active use, regardless of purpose or reason, for the past six month period and
is maintained in an uninhabitable condition or a condition of disrepair or
deterioration and which is determined by the Code Enforcement Supervisor or
officer to be unfit for human habitation or occupancy based upon the standards
as set forth in this article.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-114 METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   In accordance with G.S. 160D-1206, complaints or orders issued by the
Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer under this article shall be served upon
persons either personally or by registered or certified mail and, in
conjunction therewith, may be served by regular mail. When the manner or
service is by regular mail in conjunction with registered or certified mail,
and the registered or certified mail is unclaimed or refused, but the regular
mail is not returned by the post office within ten days after mailing, service
shall be deemed sufficient. The person mailing the notice or order by regular
mail shall certify that fact and the date thereof, and the certificate shall be
conclusive in the absence of fraud.
   (B)   If the identities of any owner or the whereabouts of persons are
unknown and cannot be ascertained by the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer
in the exercise of reasonable diligence, and the Code Enforcement Supervisor or
officer makes an affidavit to that effect, then the serving of the complaint or
order upon the unknown owners or other persons may be made by publication in a
newspaper having general circulation in the city at least once no later than
the time at which personal service would be required under the provisions of
this article. When service is made by publication, a notice of the pending
proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises thereby
affected.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-115 COSTS; A LIEN ON PREMISES.
   As provided by G.S. 160D-1203, the amount of the cost of repairs,
alterations or improvements, or vacating and closing, or removal or demolition
by the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officers shall be a lien against the real
property upon which the cost was incurred. Such lien shall be filed, have the
same priority, and be collected as the lien for special assessment.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-116 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Neither this article nor any of its provisions shall be construed to impair
or limit in any way the power of the city to define and declare nuisances and
to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to enforce this
article by criminal process as authorized by G.S. 160D-1203(4), and section
9-1-119 of this article, and the enforcement of any remedy provided herein or
in other ordinances or laws.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-117 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT TO HEAR APPEALS.
   All appeals which may be taken from decisions or orders of the Code
Enforcement Supervisor or officer pursuant to section
9-1-111(E) of this article shall be heard and determined by the Board of
Adjustment. As the appeals body, the Board shall have the power to fix the
times and places of its meetings, to adopt necessary rules of procedure and any
other rules and regulations which may be necessary for the proper discharge of
its duties. In addition to its other duties as prescribed under this title, and
applicable state laws, the Board shall perform the duties prescribed by section
9-1-111(E) and shall keep an accurate journal of all its proceedings.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-118 CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event any provision standard or requirement of this article is found
to be in conflict with any other ordinance or code of the city, the provisions
which establish the higher standard or more stringent requirement for the
promotion and protection of health and safety of the residents of the city
shall prevail; provided, however, such provision, standard, or requirement
shall be consistent with applicable state laws.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-119 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   (A)   Offenses.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling to fail,
neglect, or refuse to repair, alter or improve the same, or to vacate and
close, or demolish and remove the same, upon order of the Code Enforcement
Supervisor or officer duly made and served in accordance with the provisions of
this article, within the time specified in such order, and each day that any
such failure, neglect or refusal to comply with the order continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling, with respect to
which an order has been issued pursuant to section
9-1-111 of this article, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same in a
dilapidated or deteriorated condition found to be unfit for human habitation in
violation of such order for its repair, alteration, improvement, or its
vacation, closing or demolition, and each day that the occupancy continues
after the prescribed time shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   Penalties. A violation of this article may subject the violator to any
or all of the following penalties.
      (1)   Criminal. The violation of any provisions of this article shall
constitute a Class 1 misdemeanor, as provided by G.S. 160D-1203(4).
      (2)   Civil. A violation of any of the provisions of this article shall
subject the violator to a civil penalty by way of a civil ticket in an amount
as follows:
         (a)   First violation. A violation of an order issued by the Code
Enforcement Supervisor or officer shall subject the violator to a civil penalty
of $100.
         (b)   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
         (c)   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
      (3)   Appeals; payment of civil penalty. Unless appealed in accordance
with
1-1-20 of the City Code, a civil penalty assessed for a violation of any
provision of this section must be paid to and received by the city’s Financial
Services Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
      (4)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with the appeal provisions of this article, if full payment for an
assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the city’s Financial Services
Department, the city may recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the
following methods:
         (a)   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
         (b)   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
         (c)   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105A (the Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
         (d)   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
         (e)   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect, satisfy,
or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (5)   Separate offenses. Each day’s continuing violation shall be a
separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
ARTICLE G. NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE CODE
SEC. 9-1-121 TITLE.
   This article shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the
“Nonresidential Building or Structure Code.”
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-122 PURPOSE.
   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the city and its
citizens, it is the purpose of this article to establish minimum standards of
maintenance, sanitation, and safety relating to nonresidential buildings or
structures, as expressly authorized by G.S. 160D-1129. This article provides
for the repair, closing or demolition of nonresidential buildings or structures
as a result of a public necessity caused by conditions that are dangerous to
the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-123 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   Alteration. As applied to a building or structure, means a change or
rearrangement in the structural parts or in the exit facilities; as
enlargement, whether by extending on a side or by increasing in height; or the
moving from one location or position to another; and the term “alter” in its
various moods and tenses and its participle refers to the making of an
alteration.
   Approved. As applied to a material, device or mode of construction, means
approved by the enforcement officer under this article or by other authority
designated by law to give approval in the matter in question.
   Basic structural elements. The parts of a building which provide the
principal strength, stability, integrity, shape and safety of the building,
including but not limited to plates, studs, joists, rafters, stringers, stairs,
sub-flooring, flooring, sheathing, lathing, roofing, siding, window frames,
door frames, porches, railings, eaves, chimneys, flashing, masonry and all
other essential components.
   Building. Any structure, place or any other construction built for the
shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind or
any part of the structure, shelter or property.
   Governing body. The City Council of the City of Greenville.
   Demolish. The demolition and removal of the entire building or structure,
leaving the property free and clear of any debris and without holes or pockets
which may retain water.
   Enforcement Officer. A city code enforcement officer, building inspector,
fire code inspector, or other employee designated by the City Manager to
enforce the provisions of this article.
   Nonresidential. Any building or structure or portion of a building or
structure occupied or intended to be occupied, in whole or in part, for a use
other than a dwelling unit, home, residing place, living space or sleeping
space for one or more human beings, either permanently or transiently.
   Occupant. Any person who is a tenant or has actual possession of a
nonresidential building or structure or part thereof.
   Operator. Any person who has charge, care or control of a nonresidential
building or structure, or part thereof.
   Owner. Any person, group of persons, or any entity owning or lawfully
possessing, keeping, or having care, custody, or control of any property
covered by this article. In the case of real property, the owner includes the
authorized agent or property manager of the owner or any tenant.
   Parties in interest. All individuals, associations, and corporations that
have interests of record in a building or structure and any that are in
possession of a nonresidential building or structure.
   Premises. Any lot or parcel of land inclusive of any building or
improvements located thereon.
   Safe. A condition which is not likely to do harm to humans or to real or
personal property.
   State Building Code. The North Carolina State Building Code, as may be
amended from time to time, or any superseding regulation.
   Structurally sound. Substantially free from flaw, defect, decay or
deterioration to the extent that the building or structure or structural member
is capable of adequately or safely accomplishing the purpose for which it was
intended or designed.
   Structure. Anything constructed or placed upon a property which is supported
by the ground or which is supported by any other structure, except a currently
operable licensed vehicle.
   Unsafe. A condition which is reasonably likely to do harm to humans or to
real or personal property if not corrected or stopped.
   Vacant industrial warehouse. Any building or structure designed for the
storage of goods or equipment in connection with manufacturing processes, which
has not been used for that purpose for at least one year and has not been
converted to another use.
   Vacant manufacturing facility. Any building or structure previously used for
the lawful production or manufacturing of goods, which has not been used for
that purpose for at least one year and has not been converted to another use.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-124 APPLICABILITY AND COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The provisions of this article shall apply to all nonresidential
buildings or structures which are now in existence or which may be built within
the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Every nonresidential building or structure and the premises on which
it is situated shall comply with the provisions of this article, whether or not
the building or structure shall have been constructed, altered or repaired
before or after the enactment of this article, and irrespective of any permits
or licenses which have been issued for the use or occupancy of the building or
structure or for the installment or repair of equipment or facilities. This
article establishes minimum standards for all nonresidential buildings and
structures and does not replace or modify standards otherwise established for
the construction, repair, alteration or use of the building or structure,
equipment or facilities contained therein.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-125 MAINTENANCE STANDARDS FOR NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   All nonresidential buildings and structures shall be free of all
conditions that are dangerous and injurious to the public health, safety and
welfare of occupants or members of the general public.
   (B)   Without limitation of the foregoing requirement, the existence of any
of the following conditions shall be deemed to be dangerous to the public
health, safety and welfare for which a public necessity exists for the repair,
closing or demolition of the building or structure and must be corrected in
accordance with the provisions of this article:
      (1)   Interior walls, vertical studs, partitions, supporting members,
sills, joists, rafters, or other basic structural members that list, lean, or
buckle to such an extent as to render the building unsafe, that are rotted,
deteriorated or damaged, and that have holes or cracks which might admit
rodents;
      (2)   Exterior walls that are not structurally sound, free from defects
and damages, and capable of bearing imposed loads safely. Where a wall of a
building has become exposed as a result of demolition of adjacent buildings,
the wall must have all doors, windows, vents or other similar openings closed
with material of the type comprising the wall. The exposed wall shall be
painted, stuccoed or bricked and sufficiently weatherproofed to prevent
deterioration of the wall;
      (3)   Floors or roofs which have improperly distributed loads, which are
overloaded, or which have insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the
purpose used. Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and
strength to be reasonably safe for the purpose used. Roofs shall be kept
structurally sound and shall be maintained in such a manner so as to prevent
rain or other objects from penetrating into the interior of the building;
      (4)   Such damage by fire, wind or other causes as to render the building
unsafe;
      (5)   Dilapidation, decay, unsanitary conditions or disrepair, which is
dangerous to the health and safety of the occupants or members of the general
public;
      (6)   Lack of adequate ventilation, light, heating or sanitary facilities
to such extent as to endanger the health, safety or general welfare of the
occupants or members of the general public;
      (7)   Buildings and structures including their environs that have
accumulations of garbage, trash or rubbish, which creates health and sanitation
problems. All garbage and solid waste shall be in approved containers or stored
in a safe and sanitary manner;
      (8)   Buildings and structures that have loose and insufficiently
anchored overhanging objects, which constitute a danger of falling on persons
or property;
      (9)   Buildings and structures including their environs that have
insufficiently protected holes, excavations, breaks, projections, obstructions,
and other such dangerous impediments on and around walks, driveways, parking
lots, alleyways and other areas which are accessible to and generally used by
persons on or around the premises;
      (10)   Buildings and structures that have cracked or broken glass, loose
shingles, loose wood, crumbling stone or brick, loose or broken plastic, or
other dangerous objects or similar hazardous conditions. Exterior surfaces
shall be maintained in such material or treated in such a manner as to prevent
deterioration and repaired or replaced with like or similar material according
to its original use;
      (11)   Buildings and structures that have objects and elements protruding
from building walls or roofs, which are unsafe or not properly secured or which
can create a hazard such as abandoned electrical boxes and conduits, wires,
sign brackets and other brackets, and similar objects;
      (12)   Chimneys, flues and vent attachments thereto which are not
structurally sound. Chimneys, flues, gas vents or other draft-producing
equipment which are in use shall provide sufficient draft to develop the rated
output of the connected equipment, shall be structurally safe, durable, smoke-
tight and capable of withstanding the action of flue gases;
      (13)   Exterior porches, landings, balconies, stairs, or fire escapes
which are not structurally sound. All exterior porches, landings, balconies,
stairs and fire escapes shall be provided with banisters or railings properly
designed and maintained to minimize the hazard of falling, and the same shall
be kept sound, in good repair and free of defects;
      (14)   Cornices which are not structurally sound. Rotten or weakened
portions shall be repaired and/or replaced. All exposed wood shall be treated
or painted;
      (15)   Improperly attached gutters or down-spouts that are located so as
to cause a hazard to pedestrian, vehicular traffic or adjacent property;
      (16)   Advertising sign structures, attached or freestanding awnings,
marquees and their supporting members, and other similar attachments and
structures that cause a safety hazard to the occupants or members of the
general public;
      (17)   All exterior surfaces that may cause unsafe conditions due to a
lack of maintenance. Exterior surfaces shall be painted or sealed in order to
protect the underlying surface from deterioration. All exterior surfaces that
have been painted shall be maintained generally free of peeling and flaking.
Where 50% or more of the aggregate of any painted surface shall have peeling or
flaking or previous paint worn away, the entire surface shall be repainted in
order to prevent further deterioration;
      (18)   Windows containing broken or cracked glass that could be in danger
of falling or shattering. All windows must be tight-fitting and have sashes of
proper size and design and free from rotten wood, broken joints, or broken or
loose mullions;
      (19)   All openings originally designed as windows, doors, loading docks
or other means of egress or ingress which have been temporarily closed by
boarding or other manner in a nonsecure manner so as to allow unauthorized
admittance. If an opening is temporarily closed by boarding to secure the
building or structure, the boarding shall be trim fit, sealed to prevent water
intrusion, and painted or stained to properly conform with the other exterior
portions of thebuilding and the building or structure shall be maintained in a
state that secures the building or structure from any unauthorized admittance
from humans, animals or birds; and
      (20)   Any combination of conditions which in the judgment of the
Enforcement Officer renders any building or structure dangerous or injurious to
the health, safety or general welfare of occupants or members of the general
public.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-126 DUTIES OF THE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   The Enforcement Officer is hereby designated as the public officer to
enforce the provisions of this article and to exercise the duties and powers
herein prescribed.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Enforcement Officer:
      (1)   To investigate the conditions of nonresidential buildings and
structures in the city and to inspect nonresidential buildings and structures
located in the city in order to determine which nonresidential buildings and
structures are not being maintained so that the health and safety of its
occupants or members of the general public are jeopardized, and for the purpose
of carrying out the objectives of this article with respect to the
nonresidential buildings and structures;
      (2)   To take such action, together with other appropriate departments
and agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect the repair or
demolition of nonresidential buildings and structures which have not been
properly maintained in compliance with minimum standards established by this
article;
      (3)   To keep a record of the results of inspections made under this
article and an inventory of those nonresidential buildings and structures which
have not been properly maintained in compliance with the minimum standards
established by this article; and
      (4)   To perform such other duties as may be herein prescribed.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-127 POWERS OF ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Enforcement Officer is authorized to exercise such powers as may be
necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and provisions
of this article, including the following powers in addition to others herein
granted:
   (A)   To investigate nonresidential buildings and structures in the city to
determine whether they have been properly maintained in compliance with the
minimum standards established by this article so that the safety or health of
the occupants or members of the general public are not jeopardized;
   (B)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
   (C)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations and
inspections, provided that the entries shall be made in accordance with law and
in such manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the persons in
possession; and
   (D)   To appoint and fix duties of such officers, agents and employees as
the Enforcement Officer deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this
article.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-128 ADMINISTRATIVE LIABILITY.
   No officer, agent, official (elected or appointed) or employee of the city
shall render themselves personally liable for any damage that may accrue to
persons or property as a result of any act required or permitted in the
discharge of their duties under this article.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-129 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   In accordance with G.S. 160D-109, No staff member shall make a final
decision on an administrative decision required by this article if the outcome
of that decision would have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable
financial impact on the staff member or if the applicant or other person
subject to that decision is a person with whom the staff member has a close
familial, business, or other associational relationship. If a staff member has
a conflict of interest under this section, the decision shall be assigned to
the supervisor of the staff person or such other staff person as may be
designated by the development regulation or other ordinance.
   (B)   No staff member shall be financially interested or employed by a
business that is financially interested in a development subject to regulation
under this article unless the staff member is the owner of the land or building
involved. No staff member or other individual or an employee of a company
contracting with a local government to provide staff support shall engage in
any work that is inconsistent with their duties or with the interest of the
local government, as determined by the local government.
   (C)   In accordance with G.S. 160D-1108, staff members, agents, or
contractors responsible for building inspections shall comply with G.S. 160D-
109(c). No member of Inspections Division shall be financially interested or
employed by a business that is financially interested in the furnishing of
labor, material, or appliances for the construction, alteration, or maintenance
of any building within the City of Greenville’s planning and development
regulation jurisdiction or any part or system thereof, or in the making of
plans or specifications therefor, unless he is the owner of the building. No
member of an Inspections Division or other individual or an employee of a
company contracting with the city to conduct building inspections shall engage
in any work that is inconsistent with their duties or with the interest of the
City of Greenville, as determined by the city. The City of Greenville must find
a conflict of interest if any of the following is the case:
      (1)   If the individual, company, or employee of a company contracting to
perform building inspections for the City of Greenville has worked for the
owner, developer, contractor, or project manager of the project to be inspected
within the last two years.
      (2)   If the individual, company, or employee of a company contracting to
perform building inspections for the City of Greenville is closely related to
the owner, developer, contractor, or project manager of the project to be
inspected.
      (3)   If the individual, company, or employee of a company contracting to
perform building inspections for the City of Greenville has a financial or
business interest in the project to be inspected.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-130 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of making inspections, the Enforcement Officer is
hereby authorized to enter, examine and survey, at all reasonable times,
nonresidential buildings and structures.
   (B)   If entry upon the premises for purposes of investigation is necessary,
the entry shall be made pursuant to a duly issued administrative search warrant
in accordance with G.S. 15-27.2 or with permission of the owner, the owner’s
agent, a tenant or other perso
SEC. 9-1-131 PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation. Whenever it appears to the Enforcement
Officer that any nonresidential building or structure has not been properly
maintained so that the safety or health of its occupants or members of the
general public are jeopardized for failure of the property to meet the minimum
standards established by this article, the Enforcement Officer shall undertake
a preliminary investigation, including, but not limited to, an inspection of
the premises and discussion with any witnesses.
   (B)   Complaint and hearing. If the preliminary investigation discloses
evidence of a violation of the minimum standards established by this article,
the Enforcement Officer shall issue a complaint and cause to be served upon the
owner of and parties in interest in the nonresidential building or structure a
complaint. The complaint shall state the charges and contain a notice that an
administrative hearing will be held before the Enforcement Officer at a place
and time fixed in the complaint, not less than ten days nor more than 30 days,
after the serving of the complaint; that the owner and parties in interest
shall be given the right to answer the complaint and to appear in person, or by
electronic means, and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the
complaint; and that the rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity
shall not be controlling in hearings before the Enforcement Officer.
   (C)   Procedure after hearing.
      (1)   If, after notice and hearing, the Enforcement Officer determines
that the nonresidential building or structure has not been properly maintained
so that the safety or health of its occupants or members of the general public
is jeopardized for failure of the property to meet the minimum standards
established by this article, the Enforcement Officer shall state, in writing,
findings of fact in support of that determination and shall issue and cause to
be served upon the owner thereof an order in accordance with the provisions of
subsections (C)(2) and (C)(3) of this section and subject to the limitations
set forth in sections
9-1-132 and
9-1-133.
      (2)   If the Enforcement Officer determines that the cost of repair,
alteration or improvement of the building or structure would not exceed 50% of
its then current value, then the Enforcement Officer shall state in writing the
findings of fact in support of the determination and issue an order that
requires the owner to either: repair, alter or improve the nonresidential
building or structure in order to bring it into compliance with the minimum
standards established by this article; or vacate and close the nonresidential
building or structure for any use, not less than 30 days and not more than 90
days.
      (3)   If the Enforcement Officer determines that the cost of repair,
alteration or improvement of the building or structure would exceed 50% of its
then current value, then the Enforcement Officer shall state in writing the
findings of fact in support of the determination and issue an order that
requires the owner to either: remove or demolish the nonresidential building or
structure; or repair, alter or improve the nonresidential building or structure
to bring it into compliance with the minimum standards established by this
article, not less than 30 days and not more than 90 days.
   (D)   Failure to comply with order and ordinances.
      (1)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to either repair, alter
or improve the nonresidential building or structure, or vacate and close the
nonresidential building or structure, the Enforcement Officer shall submit to
the City Council an ordinance ordering the Enforcement Officer to cause the
nonresidential building or structure to be repaired, altered or improved in
order to bring it into compliance with the minimum standards established by
this article or to be vacated and closed for any use. The property shall be
described in the ordinance. If City Council adopts the ordinance, the
Enforcement Officer shall cause the building or structure to be vacated and
closed for any use.
      (2)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to either: remove or
demolish the nonresidential building or structure; or repair, alter or improve
the nonresidential building or structure, the Enforcement Officer shall submit
to the City Council an ordinance ordering the Enforcement Officer to cause the
nonresidential building or structure to be removed or demolished. No ordinance
shall be adopted to require removal or demolition of a nonresidential building
or structure until the owner has first been given a reasonable opportunity to
bring it into conformity with the minimum standards established by the City
Council. The property shall be described in the ordinance. If City Council
adopts the ordinance, the Enforcement Officer shall cause the building or
structure to be removed or demolished.
   (E)   In rem action. After failure of an owner of a nonresidential building
or structure to comply with an order of the Enforcement Officer issued pursuant
to the provisions of this article and upon adoption by the City Council of an
ordinance authorizing and directing the owner to do so, as provided by G.S.
160D-1129(f) and subsection (D) of this section, the Enforcement Officer shall
proceed to cause the nonresidential building or structure to be repaired,
altered or improved to comply with the minimum standards established by this
article, or to be vacated and closed or to be removed or demolished, as
directed by the ordinance of the City Council. The Enforcement Officer may
cause to be posted on the main entrance of any nonresidential building or
structure which is to be vacated and closed a placard with the following words:
“This building is unfit for any use; the use or occupation of this building for
any purpose is prohibited and unlawful.” Any person who occupies or knowingly
allows the occupancy of a building or structure so posted shall be guilty of a
Class 1 misdemeanor, as provided by G.S. 160D-1124.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-132 LIMITATIONS ON ORDERS AND ORDINANCES; HISTORIC LANDMARK OR
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, if the nonresidential
building or structure is designated as a local historic landmark, listed in the
National Register of Historic Places, or located in a locally designated
historic district or in a historic district listed in the National Register of
Historic Places and the City Council determines, after a public hearing, that
the nonresidential building or structure is of individual significance or
contributes to maintaining the character of the district, and the
nonresidential building or structure has not been condemned as unsafe, an order
issued by the Enforcement Officer pursuant to section
9-1-131(C) and an ordinance approved by City Council pursuant to section
9-1-131(D) may only require that the nonresidential building or structure be
vacated and closed until it is brought into compliance with the minimum
standards established by this article.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-133 LIMITATIONS ON ORDERS AND ORDINANCES; VACANT MANUFACTURING
FACILITY OR VACANT INDUSTRIAL WAREHOUSE.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, an order issued by the
Enforcement Officer pursuant to section
9-1-131(C) and an ordinance approved by City Council pursuant to section
9-1-131(D) may not require repairs, alterations or improvements to be made to a
vacant manufacturing facility or a vacant industrial warehouse to preserve the
original use. The order and ordinance may require the building or structure to
be vacated and closed, but repairs may be required only when necessary to
maintain structural integrity or to abate a health or safety hazard that cannot
be remedied by ordering the building or structure closed for any use.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-134 VACATED AND CLOSED NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   If the City Council has adopted an ordinance or the Enforcement
Officer has issued an order requiring the building or structure to be repaired,
altered or improved, or vacated and closed, and the building or structure has
been vacated and closed for a period of two years pursuant to the ordinance or
order, then if the City Council finds that the owner has abandoned the intent
and purpose to repair, alter or improve the building or structure and that the
continuation of the building or structure in its vacated and closed status
would be inimical to the health, safety and welfare of the city in that it
would continue to deteriorate, would create a fire or safety hazard, would be a
threat to children and vagrants, would attract persons intent on criminal
activities, or would cause or contribute to blight and the deterioration of
property values in the area, then City Council may, after the expiration of the
two-year period, adopt an ordinance and serve the ordinance on the owner,
setting forth the following:
      (1)   The ordinance shall require that the owner either demolish and
remove the nonresidential building or structure within 90 days, or repair,
alter, or improve the nonresidential building or structure to bring it into
compliance with the minimum standards established by this article within 90
days.
      (2)   The ordinance shall require that if the owner does not either
demolish and remove the nonresidential building or structure within 90 days, or
repair, alter or improve the nonresidential building or structure to bring it
into compliance with the minimum standards established by this article within
90 days, then the Enforcement Supervisor or officer shall demolish and remove
the nonresidential building or structure.
   (B)   In the case of a vacant manufacturing facility or a vacant industrial
warehouse, the building or structure must have been vacated and closed pursuant
to an order or ordinance for a period of five years before City Council may
take action under this section.
   (C)   If the owner fails to comply with the requirements of the ordinance
within 90 days, the Enforcement Officer shall demolish and remove the
nonresidential building or structure.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-135 METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   In accordance with G.S. 160D-1129(h), complaints or orders issued by
the Enforcement Officer under this article shall be served upon persons either
personally or by certified mail, so long as the means used are reasonably
designed to achieve actual notice. When service is made by certified mail, a
copy of the complaint or order may also be sent by regular mail. When the
manner of service is by regular mail in conjunction with certified mail, and
the certified mail is unclaimed or refused, but the regular mail is not
returned by the post office within ten days after mailing, service shall be
deemed sufficient. The person mailing the complaint or order by regular mail
shall certify that fact and the date thereof, and the certificate shall be
conclusive in the absence of fraud. If regular mail is used, a notice of the
pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises
thereby affected.
   (B)   If the identities of any owner or the whereabouts of persons are
unknown and cannot be ascertained by the Enforcement Officer in the exercise of
reasonable diligence, and the Enforcement Officer makes an affidavit to that
effect, then the serving of the complaint or order upon the unknown owners or
other persons may be made by publication in a newspaper having general
circulation in the city at least once no later than the time at which personal
service would be required under the provisions of this article. When service is
made by publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises thereby affected.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-136 COSTS; A LIEN ON PREMISES.
   (A)   As provided by G.S. 160D-1129(i), the amount of the cost of any
repairs, alterations or improvements, or vacating and closing, or removal or
demolition, caused to be made or done by the Enforcement Officer pursuant to
sections
9-1-131(D) or
9-1-134 shall be a lien against the real property upon which the costs were
incurred. The lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and be enforced and
the costs collected as provided by G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 10. The amount of
the costs shall also be a lien on any other real property of the owner located
within the city limits except for the owner’s primary residence. The additional
lien provided in this subsection is inferior to all prior liens and shall be
collected as a money judgment.
   (B)   If the nonresidential building or structure is removed or demolished
by the Enforcement Officer, the Enforcement Officer shall offer for sale the
recoverable materials of the building or structure and any personal property,
fixtures or appurtenances found in or attached to the building or structure and
shall credit the proceeds of the sale, if any, against the cost of the removal
or demolition. Any balance remaining shall be deposited in the superior court
by the Enforcement Officer, shall be secured in a manner directed by the court,
and shall be disbursed by the court to the persons found to be entitled thereto
by final order or decree of the court. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to impair or limit in any way the power of the City Council to define
and declare nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary
proceedings or otherwise.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-137 EJECTMENT.
   If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a nonresidential
building or structure, the Enforcement Officer may file a civil action in the
name of the city to remove the occupant. The action to vacate shall be in the
nature of summary ejectment and shall be commenced by filing a complaint naming
as parties defendant any person occupying the nonresidential building or
structure. The Clerk of Superior Court shall issue a summons requiring the
defendant to appear before a magistrate at a certain time, date and place not
to exceed ten days from the issuance of the summons to answer the complaint.
The summons and complaint shall be served as provided in G.S. 42-29. The
summons shall be returned according to its tenor, and if on its return it
appears to have been duly served and if at the hearing the Enforcement Officer
produces a certified copy of an ordinance adopted by the City Council pursuant
to G.S. 160D-1129(f) and section
9-1-131(D) to vacate the occupied nonresidential building or structure, the
magistrate shall enter judgment ordering that the premises be vacated and all
persons be removed. The judgment ordering that the nonresidential building or
structure be vacated shall be enforced in the same manner as the judgment for
summary ejectment entered under G.S. 42-30. An appeal from any judgment entered
under this section by the magistrate may be taken as provided in G.S. 7A-228,
and the execution of the judgment may be stayed as provided in G.S. 7A-227. An
action to remove an occupant of a nonresidential building or structure who is a
tenant of the owner may not be in the nature of a summary ejectment proceeding
pursuant to this section unless the occupant was served with notice, at least
30 days before the filing of the summary ejectment proceeding, that the City
Council has ordered the Enforcement Officer to proceed to exercise his or her
duties under G.S. 160D-1129(f) and section
9-1-131(D) to vacate and close or remove and demolish the nonresidential
building or structure.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-138 FILING OF ORDINANCES.
   An ordinance adopted by City Council pursuant to sections
9-1-131(D) or
9-1-134 of this article shall be recorded in the office of the Register of
Deeds of Pitt County and shall be indexed in the name of the property owner in
the grantor index, as provided by G.S. 160D-1129(f) and (g).
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-139 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Neither this article nor any of its provisions shall be construed to impair
or limit in any way the power of the city to define and declare nuisances and
to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to enforce this
article by criminal process as authorized by G.S. 160D-1120 and section
9-1-143 of this article, and the enforcement of any remedy provided herein or
in other ordinances or laws.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-140 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT TO HEAR APPEALS.
   (A)   All appeals which may be taken from decisions or orders of the
Enforcement Officer pursuant to this article shall be heard and determined by
the Board of Adjustment. As the appeals body, the Board shall have the power to
fix the times and places of its meetings, to adopt necessary rules of procedure
and any other rules and regulations which may be necessary for the proper
discharge of its duties.
   (B)   Appeals shall be subject to the following:
      (1)   An appeal from any decision or order of the Enforcement Officer may
be taken by any person aggrieved thereby, and otherwise entitled to bring an
appeal under applicable state law. Any appeal from the Enforcement Officer
shall be taken within ten days from the rendering of the decision or service of
the order, and shall be taken by filing with the Enforcement Officer’s
Department Head or their designee and with the Board of Adjustment a notice of
appeal which shall specify the grounds upon which the appeal is based. Upon the
filing of any notice of appeal, the Enforcement Officer shall forthwith
transmit to the Board all the papers constituting the record upon which the
decision appealed from was made. When the appeal is from a decision of the
Enforcement Officer refusing to allow the person aggrieved thereby to do any
act, the Enforcement Officer’s decision shall remain in force until modified or
reversed. When any appeal is from a decision of the Enforcement Officer
requiring the person aggrieved to do any act, the appeal shall have the effect
of suspending the requirement until the hearing by the Board, unless the
Enforcement Officer certifies to the Board, after the notice of appeal is
filed, that by reason of the facts stated in the certificate (a copy of which
shall be furnished the appellant) a suspension of the requirement would cause
imminent peril to life or property, in which case the requirement shall not be
suspended except by a restraining order, which may be granted for due cause
shown upon not less than one day’s written notice to the Enforcement Officer,
by the Board, or by a court of record upon petition made pursuant to G.S. 160D-
1208(d) and section
9-1-141.
      (2)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of all
appeals, shall give notice to all the parties, and shall render its decision
within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent or
attorney. The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the
decision or order appealed from, and may make such decision and order as in its
opinion ought to be made in the matter, and to that end it shall have all the
powers of the Enforcement Officer, but the concurring vote of four-fifths of
the members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse or modify any decision
or order of the Enforcement Officer. The Board shall have power also in passing
upon appeals, in any case when practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships
would result from carrying out the strict letter of this article, to adapt the
application of the article to the necessities of the case to the end that the
spirit of the article shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and
substantial justice done.
   (C)   Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review by the superior
court by proceedings in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of
the decision of the Board, but not otherwise.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-141 TEMPORARY INJUNCTION REMEDY FOR AGGRIEVED PERSON.
   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the Enforcement Officer or a
decision rendered by the Board of Adjustment shall have the right within 30
days after issuance of the order or rendering of the decision, to petition the
Superior Court for a temporary injunction restraining the Enforcement Officer
pending a final disposition of the cause, as provided by G.S. 160D-1208(d).
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-142 CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event any provision standard, or requirement of this article is found
to be in conflict with any other ordinance or code of the city, the provisions
which establishes the higher standard or more stringent requirement for the
promotion and protection of health and safety of the citizens of the city shall
prevail.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-143 PENALTIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any nonresidential building or
structure to fail, neglect or refuse to repair, alter or improve the same, or
to vacate and close and remove or demolish the same, upon order of the
Enforcement Officer duly made and served in accordance with the provisions of
this article, within the time specified in the order, and each day that any
such failure, neglect or refusal to comply with the order continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense. It shall be unlawful for the owner
of any nonresidential building or structure, with respect to which an order has
been issued pursuant to section
9-1-131(C) of this article, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after
the time prescribed in the order for its repair, alteration, improvement, or
its vacation and closing, and each day that the occupancy continues after the
prescribed time shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   Penalties. A violation of this article may subject the violator to any
or all of the following penalties.
      (1)   Criminal. The violation of any provisions of this article shall
constitute a Class 1 misdemeanor, as provided by G.S. 160D-1124.
      (2)   Civil. A violation of any of the provisions of this article shall
subject the violator to a civil penalty by way of a civil ticket in an amount
as follows:
         (a)   First violation. A violation of an order issued by the
Enforcement Supervisor or officer shall subject the violator to a civil penalty
of $100.
         (b)   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
         (c)   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
      (3)   Appeals; payment of civil penalty. Unless appealed in accordance
with
1-1-20 of the City Code, a civil penalty assessed for a violation of any
provision of this section must be paid to and received by the city’s Financial
Services Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
      (4)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with the appeal provisions of this article, if full payment for an
assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the city’s Financial Services
Department, the city may recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the
following methods:
         (a)   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
         (b)   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
         (c)   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105A (the Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
         (d)   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
         (e)   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect, satisfy,
or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (5)   Separate offenses. Each day’s continuing violation shall be a
separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
ARTICLE H. REGULATION OF VACATED AND CLOSED BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES AND
DWELLINGS
SEC. 9-1-145 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this article to promote the health, safety and
general welfare of the citizens and preserve the dignity and peace of the city
by establishing regulations governing boarded up buildings or structures and
dwellings in order to prevent their detrimental effects in the city’s
neighborhoods.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Division shall be responsible for the
administration and enforcement of the provisions of this article and shall have
the following authority:
      (1)   To inspect the properties;
      (2)   To obtain administrative search and inspection warrants, if
necessary, as provided in G.S. 15-27.2; and
      (3)   To issue notices of violation and impose civil penalties.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall apply to the following:
      (1)   Abandoned structures which are being vacated and closed as a result
of an order by the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer or an ordinance
adopted by City Council pursuant to the abandoned structure provisions of
Article F of this chapter;
      (2)   Dwellings which are being vacated and closed as a result of an
order by the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer or an ordinance adopted by
City Council pursuant to the Minimum Housing Code provisions of Article E of
this chapter; and
      (3)   Nonresidential buildings or structures which are being vacated and
closed as a result of an order by the Enforcement Supervisor or officer or an
ordinance adopted by City Council pursuant to the Nonresidential Building or
Structure Code provisions of Article G of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-146 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meaning ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Board up. The boarding up of any means of egress and ingress, including,
without limitation, windows and doors that are clearly visible from the public
right-of-way, to an unoccupied building or structure.
   Department. The Neighborhood and Business Services Department, Code
Enforcement.
   Division. With respect to the department, the Neighborhood and Business
Services Department Director may delegate any of the functions or powers of the
Department under this article to such officers and agents they may designate.
   Dwelling. Any building, structure, manufactured home or mobile home, or part
thereof, intended to be used for human habitation or intended to be so used,
and includes any appurtenances therewith.
   Nonresidential. Any building or structure or portion of a building or
structure occupied or intended to be occupied, in whole or in part, for a use
other than a dwelling unit, home, residing place, living space or sleeping
space for one or more human beings, either permanently or transiently.
   Owner. Any person, group of persons, or any entity owning or lawfully
possessing, keeping, or having care, custody, or control of any property
covered by this article. In the case of real property, the owner includes the
authorized agent or property manager of the owner or any tenant.
   Unoccupied. A building or structure that is not occupied or that is occupied
by unauthorized persons. In the case of a multi-unit building or structure,
unoccupied means when any one unit is unoccupied or occupied by unauthorized
persons.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-147 STANDARDS.
   (A)   When a building or structure or dwelling subject to the provisions of
this section is closed or secured, all openings to be boarded shall be covered
in one piece of wood, cut to size to fit and secured by screws no less than
three inches in length. Broken windows must be either completely repaired or
securely boarded. Boards secured to openings shall be painted after
installation to match the primary color or trim color of the residence to
minimize the appearance of a dilapidated structure. The building or structure
will be closed or secured in compliance with the checklist of materials and
procedures prepared by the Code Enforcement Division and filed in the office of
the City Clerk.
   (B)   After a building or structure or dwelling subject to the provisions of
this section is closed or secured, the owner or manager of the building or
structure or dwelling shall remain responsible for compliance with maintenance
of the exterior including the grounds and for interior safety including
preventing access to the interior during the period of closure.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-148 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; PENALTIES.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer shall notify the owner of a
boarded up building or structure or dwelling of a violation of this article and
the owner shall have ten business days from the date of the notice of violation
to abate the violation.
   (B)   Penalties. A violation of this article may subject the violator to any
or all of the following penalties.
      (1)   Civil. A violation of any of the provisions of this article shall
subject the violator to a civil penalty by way of a civil ticket in an amount
as follows:
         (a)   First violation. A violation of an order issued by the Code
Enforcement Supervisor or officer shall subject the violator to a civil penalty
of $100.
         (b)   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
         (c)   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
      (2)   Appeals; payment of civil penalty. Unless appealed in accordance
with
1-1-20 of the City Code, a civil penalty assessed for a violation of any
provision of this section must be paid to and received by the city’s Financial
Services Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
      (3)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with the appeal provisions of this article, if full payment for an
assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the city’s Financial Services
Department, the city may recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the
following methods:
         (a)   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
         (b)   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
         (c)   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105A (the Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
         (d)   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
         (e)   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect, satisfy,
or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (4)   Separate offenses. Each day’s continuing violation shall be a
separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   Abatement by the city. Failure to abate the violation shall result in
the owner’s assessment of the costs of abatement and imposition of
administrative fees. The Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer may afford the
owner additional time to abate the violation if the failure was caused by
weather conditions or other factors as determined by the Code Enforcement
Supervisor or officer not to have been within the control of the owner.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
ARTICLE I. HOUSEMOVERS
SEC. 9-1-151 USE OF BOND FOR DAMAGES OR EXPENSES.
   If damages occur to any city-owned, -occupied or -maintained property as a
result of the moving activities, or if the activities cause the use of city
personnel for traffic control or other ancillary assistance, the cost of
repairs or expenses will be retained by the city from the bond. However, the
mover is liable for all such damages and expenses and his or her liability is
not limited to the amount of bond.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 9-1-152 RETURN OF UNUSED BOND.
   After verification by the Building Inspector and police that no damages or
expenses occurred in the moving, the entire bond will be returned to the mover.
If damages or expenses were incurred, the amount of the bond remaining, if any,
after payment of the damages and expenses, will be returned to the mover.
(Ord. No. 23-082, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
CHAPTER 2: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
Section
   
9-2-1   Created
   
9-2-2   Composition, appointive members, extraterritorial representatives, ex
officio members and Secretary
   
9-2-3   Terms of members; when appointments made
   
9-2-4   Election of officers; appointment of Secretary
   
9-2-5   Quorum
   
9-2-6   Adoption of rules
   
9-2-7   Records
   
9-2-8   Statutory powers; conflicts of interest
   
9-2-9   Legal efficacy of recommendations
Statutory reference:
   Municipal planning agencies, see G.S. 160D-301 and 160D-604
SEC. 9-2-1 CREATED.
   A municipal commission to be known and designated as “The Planning and
Zoning Commission of the City of Greenville,” referred to in this code as the
Planning and Zoning Commission, is hereby created for the city.
SEC. 9-2-2 COMPOSITION, APPOINTIVE MEMBERS, EXTRATERRITORIAL REPRESENTATIVES,
EX OFFICIO MEMBERS AND SECRETARY.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall consist of nine regular
members and three alternate members. Seven of the regular members and two
alternate members shall reside within the corporate limits of the city. They
shall be appointed by the City Council. Two of the regular members and the
other alternate member shall reside outside of the corporate limits of the
city, but within the limits of the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city.
They shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Pitt County. Current
membership existing on the effective date of this section shall remain in
effect provided any future appointment or reappointment of members shall be in
accordance with the requirements of this section.
   (B)   The extraterritorial representatives have equal rights, privileges and
duties with the city members of the Commission, and are required to vote on
each question, regardless of whether the matters at issue arise within the city
or within the extraterritorial area.
   (C)   Each alternate member, while attending any special meeting of the
Commission and serving in the absence of any regular member, shall have and may
exercise all powers and duties of a regular member.
   (D)   The Director of Public Works and the General Manager of Greenville
Utilities shall be ex officio advisors to the Commission. The ex officio
advisors shall act as technical advisors to the Commission without the right to
vote.
   (E)   The Director of Planning and Development Services shall serve as
Secretary to the Commission without the right to vote.
   (F)   Appointments of members of the Planning and Zoning Commission by City
Council shall be made to promote the representation of a variety of interests.
This representation should include some members with environmental,
neighborhood preservation, development and business interests.
(Ord. No. 1116, passed 7-9-1981; Ord. No. 03-114, §§ 1, 2, passed 11-13-2003;
Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006; Ord. No. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Extraterritorial representation for planning agencies, see G.S. 160D-307
SEC. 9-2-3 TERMS OF MEMBERS; WHEN APPOINTMENTS MADE.
   (A)   Seven of the regular members and two alternate members appointed by
the City Council shall be appointed for a three-year term beginning June 1 of
the year of their appointment to a full term.
   (B)   Two of the regular members and one alternate member appointed by the
Board of Commissioners of Pitt County shall be appointed for a three-year term
beginning June 1 of the year of their appointment to a full term.
   (C)   In appointing the original members of the Commission, or in filling of
vacancies caused by the expiration or resignations of the terms of existing
members, the City Council and the Board of Commissioners may appoint certain
members for less than three years to the end that thereafter the terms of all
members shall not expire at the same time.
   (D)   A regular or an alternate member, representing either the city or the
extraterritorial area, shall not serve more than two consecutive three-year
terms; except, that an appointed member who shall have finished an unexpired
term of another member may be appointed to as many as two full, subsequent
terms of three years each.
   (E)   The ex officio members and Secretary of this Commission shall serve
concurrently with their respective terms of office or employment.
(Ord. No. 1116, passed 7-9-1981; Ord. No. 03-114, § 3, passed 11-13-2003)
SEC. 9-2-4 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; APPOINTMENT OF SECRETARY.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall elect from its membership a
Chairperson, a Vice-Chairperson and such other officers as it may determine to
be necessary, who shall serve for one-year terms, with eligibility for
reelection.
SEC. 9-2-5 QUORUM.
   A quorum shall be a majority of the members of the Commission.
SEC. 9-2-6 ADOPTION OF RULES.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall adopt rules, not inconsistent with
state law or this Code, for the transaction of business.
SEC. 9-2-7 RECORDS.
   The Secretary of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall keep a record of
the attendance of its members and of its proceedings, resolutions, discussions,
findings and recommendations, which shall be a public record.
SEC. 9-2-8 STATUTORY POWERS; CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall have such rights, privileges,
duties and authority and shall exercise such functions as are conferred or
authorized by state law. Members of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be
subject to provisions of G.S. 160D-109 relating to conflicts of interest.
(Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Powers and duties of municipal planning agencies, see G.S. 160D-301, 160D-
502, and 160D-604
SEC. 9-2-9 LEGAL EFFICACY OF RECOMMENDATIONS.
   The recommendations of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be advisory
to the City Council and shall be without legal efficacy until approved by the
City Council.
CHAPTER 3: AIRPORT ZONING
Section
   
9-3-1   Definitions
   
9-3-2   Short title
   
9-3-3   Airport hazard zoning map
   
9-3-4   Airport zones
   
9-3-5   Airport zone height limitations
   
9-3-6   Use restrictions
   
9-3-7   Nonconforming uses, structures and trees
   
9-3-8   Permits
   
9-3-9   Application for permits and variances
   
9-3-10   Appeals
   
9-3-11   Director of Planning and Development Services interprets
   
9-3-12   Duties of City Council
   
9-3-13   Enforcement and appeals
   
9-3-14   Permits required
   
9-3-15   Certificate of occupancy
   
9-3-16   Remedies
   
9-3-17   Revocation of permits and certificates
   
9-3-18   Penalties for violation
Editor’s note:
   The original airport zoning chapter that was taken from Code 1971 and
revised by Ordinance No. 704, § 1, passed July 7, 1977 was rewritten by
Ordinance No. 04-45 dated May 13, 2004.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt, see G.S. 63-31
SEC. 9-3-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Airport. The Pitt-Greenville Airport located in the northwestern section of the
city limits contiguous to the Tar River and U.S. 13-NC 11.
Airport elevation. The highest point of the airport’s landing surfaces measured
in feet above mean sea level, i.e., 27.0 feet for Pitt-Greenville Airport.
Airport hazard. Any object violating the Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR) 14
C.F.R. Part 77, navigable airspace depicted on the airport hazard zoning map.
Airport reference point (ARP). The geometric center of the active runway
configuration. For Pitt-Greenville Airport the ARP is latitude 35 degrees 38
minutes 03.73 seconds North, and longitude 77 degrees 07.73 minutes 00 seconds
West.
Airport zone. An area that begins at the end of the primary surface for each
active runway and extends outward and upward for the distance and angle
specified in the Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR) Part 77 and depicted on the
airport hazard zoning map.
Conical surfaces. An area extended outwardly from the inner horizontal surface
an additional 4,000 feet and upward at a slope of 20:1. Therefore, the conical
surface extends from 177.0 feet above mean sea level to 377.0 feet above mean
sea level as depicted on the Airport Hazard Zoning Map.
Inner horizontal surface. A horizontal plane 150 feet above the airport
elevation, i.e., 177.0 feet for Pitt-Greenville Airport. The horizontal surface
is inscribed within 10,000 feet radii arcs from the ends of the primary
surfaces as depicted on the Airport Hazard Zoning Map.
Nonconforming use. Any man-made structure, or object of natural growth or use
of land or activity that is inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or
any amendment thereto.
Primary surface. A plane of varying elevation 1,000 feet wide for the precision
approach runway and 500 feet wide for the non-precision approach and visual
runways, centered on the respective runways and extending 200 feet beyond each
runway end. The elevation of any point on the primary surface is equal to the
runway elevation at that station measured along the runway centerline. The
elevation of any point on the primary surface 200 feet beyond each runway end
is equal to the centerline elevation of the runway end.
Runway.  For Pitt-Greenville Airport there are three active runways, all
constructed of asphaltic concrete and identified as follows:
   Runway 2-20 - 6,500 feet × 150 feet   Precision Approach
   Runway 8-26 - 4,997 feet × 150 feet   Non-Precision Approach
   Runway 15-33 - 2,500 feet × 150 feet   Visual Approach
Runway, non-precision. A runway having an existing or planned instrument
approach procedure which provides for approaches at a decision height (DH) and
visibility minimums greater than as defined for a precision approach.
Runway, precision. A runway having an existing or planned instrument approach
procedure utilizing an instrument landing system (ILS) or precision approach
radar (PAR) or global positioning system (GPS), which provides for approaches
to a decision height (DH) of not less than 200 feet above ground level (AGL)
with a visibility of not less than one-half mile or a runway visual range (RVR)
of not less than 2,400 feet.
Runway, visual. A runway intended solely for aircraft operating under visual
flight and approach procedures.
Transitional surfaces.  An area extending upward from the sides of the primary
surface for each active runway at a slope of 7:1 to the limit of the inner
horizontal surface, and the area extending from the sides of precision approach
zones outward 5,000 feet and upward at a slope of 7:1 (refer to airport hazard
zoning map).
(Ord. No. 04-45, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 9-3-2 SHORT TITLE.
      This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Pitt-Greenville
Airport zoning ordinance” or this chapter.
(Ord. No. 04-45, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 9-3-3 AIRPORT HAZARD ZONING MAP.
      The airport hazard zoning map is hereby incorporated as an administrative
supplement by reference and made a part of this chapter. A copy of the map is
on file in the office of the Director of Planning and Development Services. A
digital copy of the map shall be maintained in the city’s graphic information
system (GIS) that shall be utilized for purposes of administration of this
chapter. The airport hazard zones as illustrated on the map are a depiction of
the regulatory surfaces as provided herein and the map shall be automatically
amended by addition, alteration or extension of the associated physical
facility.
(Ord. No. 04-45, passed 5-13-2004; Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006; Ord.
No. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 9-3-4 AIRPORT ZONES.
     There are hereby created and established certain zones which include all
of the land lying beneath the approach surfaces, transitional surfaces, inner
horizontal and conical surfaces, as defined herein, as they apply to Pitt-
Greenville Airport and which are depicted on the airport hazard zoning map.
(Ord. No. 04-45, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 9-3-5 AIRPORT ZONE HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by subsection (C), or noted in this
chapter, no structure or tree shall be erected, altered, allowed to grow or be
maintained in any zone created by this chapter to a height in excess of the
limiting height of the applicable zone represented by the conical surfaces,
inner horizontal surface, primary surface and transitional surfaces herein
established.
   (B)   Limiting height for each zone shall be depicted on the airport hazard
zoning map through the use of intermediate aerial contours superimposed over
existing ground contours.
   (C)   Temporary construction equipment, including cranes or other apparatus,
that exceed the height limitation of the applicable zone represented by the
conical surfaces, inner horizontal surface, primary surface and transitional
surfaces herein established shall be permitted provided:
      (1)   The sponsor of the temporary construction equipment has filed FAA
Form 7460-1, Notice of Proposed Construction or Alteration, or other amended or
substitute FAA Form required for this purpose with the FAA;
      (2)   The FAA has stated in writing that a FAA Aeronautical Study has
resulted in the determination that the temporary construction equipment would
not be a hazard to air navigation;
      (3)   The sponsor of the temporary construction equipment shall deliver a
copy of the FAA written determination to the Executive Director of the Pitt-
Greenville Airport at least ten days prior to any airport height zone
encroachment allowed pursuant to this subsection (C); and
      (4)   The temporary construction equipment is marked and lighted in
accordance with the lighting and marking standards prescribed by the FAA.
(Ord. No. 04-45, passed 5-13-2004; Ord. No. 12-011, § 1, passed 3-8-2012)
SEC. 9-3-6 USE RESTRICTIONS.
    Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no use may be made of
land or water within any zone established by this chapter in such a manner as
to create electrical interference with navigational signals or radio
communication between the airport and aircraft, or in any way impair the
visibility of pilots using the airport, or otherwise create a hazard to
aircraft intending to use the airport.
(Ord. No. 04-45, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 9-3-7 NONCONFORMING USES, STRUCTURES AND TREES.
   (A)   Regulations, not retroactive. The regulations prescribed by this
chapter shall not be construed as to require the removal or alteration of any
tree or structure not conforming to these regulations as of May 4, 1944, the
date of enactment of the ordinance codified in this chapter. Nothing contained
herein shall require any change in construction or use of any structure begun
prior to the above-referenced date.
    (B)   Marking or lighting. The owner of any aforementioned existing
nonconforming structures or trees is hereby required to permit the
installation, operation and maintenance thereon of such markers and/or lights
as deemed necessary by the airport authority; to clearly indicate the presence
of such obstructions or hazards to air navigation. All the markers and/or
lights shall be installed, operated and maintained at the expense of the
airport authority.
(Ord. No. 04-45, passed 5-13-2004)
Editor’s note:
   The “date of enactment of the ordinance codified in this chapter” given as
May 4, 1944, refers to the enactment of the former airport zoning ordinance,
which has been superseded by these provisions.
SEC. 9-3-8 PERMITS.
    (A)   Future uses.
      (1)   No material change shall be made in the use of land, and no
structure or tree shall be erected, altered, planted or otherwise established
in any zone hereby created, unless a permit therefor shall have been applied
for and granted as required by this chapter.
      (2)   However, a permit for a tree or structure of less than 75 feet of
vertical height above the ground shall not be required in the horizontal and
conical zones or in any approach and transitional zones beyond a horizontal
distance of 4,200 feet from each end of runway except when the tree or
structure, because of terrain, land contour or topographic features, would
extend above the height limit prescribed for the respective zone.
      (3)   Each application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for which
the permit is desired with sufficient particulars to determine whether the
resulting use, structure or tree would conform to the regulations herein
prescribed. If the determination is in the affirmative, the permit shall be
granted.
    (B)   Existing uses. No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an airport hazard or permit a nonconforming use,
structure or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation that it was on
the effective date of this chapter or any amendments thereto or greater than it
is when the application for a permit is made. Except as indicated, all
applications for such a permit shall be granted.
    (C)   Nonconforming uses abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the Zoning
Enforcement Officer determines that a nonconforming tree or structure has been
abandoned or more than 50% torn down, physically deteriorated or decayed, no
permit shall be granted that would allow the structure or tree to exceed the
applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning regulations.
    (D)   Variances. Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use his or her property not in
accordance with the regulations prescribed in this chapter, may apply to the
Board of Adjustment for a variance from the regulations. The variance shall be
allowed when unnecessary hardship would result from carrying out the strict
letter of the zoning ordinance, upon a showing that the statutory standards for
granting variances, contained in G.S. 160D-705(d), as the same may be amended,
are satisfied.
    (E)   Hazard marking and lighting. Any permit or variance granted may, if
the action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this chapter and be
reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the owner of
the structure or tree in question to permit the airport authority, at the
owner’s expense, to install, operate and maintain thereon such markers and
lights as may be necessary to indicate to pilots the presence of an airport
hazard.
(Ord. No. 04-45, passed 5-13-2004; Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-3-9 APPLICATION FOR PERMITS AND VARIANCES.
   It shall be the duty of the Director of Planning and Development Services,
or authorized representative, to accept applications for permits and variances,
and consider each and enforce the applicable provisions prescribed herein.
(Ord. No. 04-45, passed 5-13-2004; Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006; Ord.
No. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 9-3-10 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved or affected by any decision of the Director of Planning
and Development Services, or authorized representative, made in the
administration of this chapter, may appeal to the Board of Adjustment in
accordance with applicable procedure and law.
(Ord. No. 04-45, passed 5-13-2004; Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006; Ord.
No. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 9-3-11 DIRECTOR OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT SERVICES INTERPRETS.
   It is the intent of this chapter that all questions of interpretation shall
be the responsibility of the Director of Planning and Development Services or
authorized representative.
(Ord. No. 04-45, passed 5-13-2004; Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006; Ord.
No. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 9-3-12 DUTIES OF CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   It is further the intent of this chapter that the duties of the City
Council in connection with this chapter shall be to consider and act upon
proposed amendments to this chapter.
   (B)   The duties of the City Council shall not include hearing and deciding
questions of interpretation and enforcement that arise.
(Ord. No. 04-45, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 9-3-13 ENFORCEMENT AND APPEALS.
   The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall be responsible for the enforcement of
this chapter. The Zoning Enforcement Officer may provide for the enforcement of
this chapter by means of withholding permits and/or issuance of civil citation
(s) as provided herein. The Zoning Enforcement Officer may provide for
enforcement by instituting injunction, mandamus or other appropriate action or
proceeding to prevent unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, conversion, moving, maintenance or use; to correct or abate the
violation; or to prevent the occupancy of the building, structure or land. If a
decision of the Zoning Enforcement Officer is questioned, the aggrieved person
may appeal the decision to the Board of Adjustment in accordance with
applicable procedure and law.
(Ord. No. 04-45, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 9-3-14 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No land, building or structure shall be used, no building, sign or structure
shall be erected, and no existing building, sign or structure shall be moved,
expanded, enlarged or altered until the Director of Planning and Development
Services, or authorized representative, has approved the use or construction in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 04-45, passed 5-13-2004; Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006; Ord.
No. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 9-3-15 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   A certificate of occupancy issued by the Building Inspector is required in
advance of occupancy or use of a building hereafter erected, altered or moved;
and for a change of use of any building or land. It shall be unlawful to occupy
any building or structure without a certificate of occupancy. A certificate of
occupancy shall not be issued unless the proposed use of a building or
structure conforms to the applicable provisions of these regulations.
(Ord. No. 04-45, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 9-3-16 REMEDIES.
   Where any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building, structure or land
is used in violation of this chapter, the Zoning Enforcement Officer, Building
Inspector, any other appropriate city authority, or any person who would be
damaged by the violation may, in addition to other remedies, institute an
action for injunction, mandamus or other appropriate action or proceeding to
prevent the violation.
(Ord. No. 04-45, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 9-3-17 REVOCATION OF PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES.
A stop work order may be issued or a building permit or certificate of
occupancy may be revoked by the Building Inspector when the method of moving,
construction, alteration, repair or use violates any provision of these
regulations or any state or local law, ordinance or resolution. Upon notice,
any further work upon the moving, construction, alteration or repair of a
building or structure, or further use of a building, structure or land shall be
deemed a violation.
(Ord. No. 04-45, passed 5-13-2004)
SEC. 9-3-18 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter or a failure to comply
with any of its requirements shall subject the offender to a civil penalty as
follows:
      (1)   In the amount of $50 for each offense on the first day of the
offense;
      (2)   In the amount of $100 for each offense either: on the second day of
the offense; or when the offense is a second offense within a 12-month period;
and
      (3)   In the amount of $250 for each offense either: on the third day and
on each subsequent day of the offense; or when the offense is the third or
subsequent offense within a 12-month period.
   (B)   Violators shall be issued a written citation that must be paid within
72 hours. If a person fails to pay the civil penalty within 72 hours, the city
may recover the penalty together with all costs by filing a legal action in the
general court of justice in the nature of a suit to collect a debt.
   (C)   This chapter may also be enforced by any appropriate equitable action.
   (D)   Each day that any violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense for purposes of the penalties and remedies specified in this section.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Zoning Enforcement Officer may invoke the
escalating civil penalties authorized by subsection (A) whenever the violation
continues and there has been sufficient time for the violation to be corrected
after notification that the violation exists or whenever the violation has
occurred previously during a 12-month period.
   (E)   Any one, all, or any combination of the foregoing penalties and
remedies may be used to enforce this chapter.
   (F)   The owner, tenant or occupant of any building or land or part thereof
and any architect, builder, contractor, agent or other person who participates
in, assists, directs, creates or maintains any situation that is contrary to
the requirements of this chapter may be held responsible for the violation and
suffer the penalties and be subject to the remedies herein provided.
(Ord. No. 04-45, passed 5-13-2004)
CHAPTER 4: ZONING
Section
Article A. General Provisions
   
9-4-1   Title
   
9-4-2   Purpose
   
9-4-3   Interpretation and application
   
9-4-4   Jurisdiction
   
9-4-5   Zoning map; adopted by reference and incorporated in chapter
   
9-4-6   Same; where available to public
   
9-4-7   Same; maintenance in current status
   
9-4-8   Same; replacement
   
9-4-9   Land and buildings regulated
   
9-4-10   Only one principal use upon any lot; exceptions
   
9-4-11   Reduction or change in lot size prohibited
   
9-4-12   Maintenance of open space
   
9-4-13   Uses prohibited
   
9-4-14   Airport zoning ordinance
   
9-4-15   Reenactment of prior zoning provisions; saving provisions
   
9-4-16   Tree protection prior to development
Article B. Definitions
   
9-4-21   Usage
   
9-4-22   Words and terms defined
Article C. Nonconforming Situations
   
9-4-28   Continuation of nonconforming situations and completing nonconforming
projects
   
9-4-29   Extension or enlargement of nonconforming situations
   
9-4-30   Repairs, maintenance and reconstruction
   
9-4-31   Change in use of property where a nonconforming situation exists
   
9-4-32   Abandonment and discontinuance of a nonconforming use
   
9-4-33   Nonconforming lots
   
9-4-34   Vested rights
   
9-4-35   Development plan vested rights
   
9-4-36   Annexation declaration of vested rights
   
9-4-37   Removal of certain nonconforming uses required
   
9-4-38   Removal of certain nonconforming residential accessory uses and/or
structures required
Article D. Zoning Districts
Part 1. Interpretation 
   
9-4-41   Location and boundaries of districts
   
9-4-42   Rules for interpretation of boundaries
   
9-4-43   Vacation, abandonment or withdrawal of streets and alleys
   
9-4-44   Further interpretation by Board of Adjustment
Part 2. Purpose
   
9-4-45   Zoning districts established
   
9-4-46   RA-20 Residential–Agricultural
   
9-4-47   R-15S Residential–Single-Family
   
9-4-48   R-9S Residential–Single-Family
   
9-4-49   R-9 Residential
   
9-4-50   R-6S Residential–Single-Family
   
9-4-51   R-6 Residential
   
9-4-51.1   R-6A Residential
   
9-4-51.2   R-6A Restricted Residential Use (RU) Overlay
   
9-4-52   R-6N Residential–Neighborhood Revitalization
   
9-4-53   R-6MH Residential–Mobile Home
   
9-4-54   PUD Planned Unit Development
   
9-4-55   MI Medical–Institutional
   
9-4-56   MS Medical–Support
   
9-4-57   MO Medical–Office
   
9-4-58   MCG Medical–General Commercial
   
9-4-59   MR Medical–Residential
   
9-4-60   MCH Medical–Heavy Commercial
    
9-4-61   MRS Medical–Residential–Single-family
   
9-4-62   OR Office–Residential
   
9-4-63   O Office
   
9-4-64   CN Neighborhood Commercial
   
9-4-65   CD Downtown Commercial
   
9-4-66   CDF Downtown Commercial Fringe
   
9-4-67   CH Heavy Commercial
   
9-4-68   CG General Commercial
   
9-4-69   PI Planned Industry
   
9-4-70   IU Unoffensive Industry
   
9-4-71   PIU Planned Unoffensive Industry
   
9-4-72   I Industry
   
9-4-73   CA Conservation Overlay District
   
9-4-74   WS Water Supply Watershed Overlay
   
9-4-75   HD Historic Overlay District
   
9-4-76   UC Urban Core Overlay District
   
9-4-77   University Neighborhood Revitalization Initiative (UNRI) Overlay
District
   
9-4-77.3   MUI Mixed Use Institutional
Part 3. Permitted and Special Uses
   
9-4-78   Table of uses
Part 4. Overlay Districts
   
9-4-79   Standards for overlay districts
Article E. Standards and Criteria for Special Uses
   
9-4-81   General criteria
   
9-4-82   Additional restrictions
   
9-4-83   Revocation of permits after notice and opportunity to be heard
   
9-4-84   Specific criteria
   
9-4-85   Index to listed uses requiring a special use permit
   
9-4-86   Listed uses; specific criteria
Article F. Dimensional Standards, Modifications and Special Standards
   
9-4-93   Applicability
   
9-4-94   Schedule of development standards by zoning district
   
9-4-95   Measuring setbacks
   
9-4-96   Lot frontage requirements
   
9-4-97   Lot width reduction
   
9-4-98   Height exemptions
   
9-4-99   Visibility; sight distances maintained
   
9-4-100   Residential accessory structure and building standards; except as
otherwise regulated under Articles H, I, J, K and M
   
9-4-101   Commercial, industrial and office accessory structure and building
standards
   
9-4-101.1   Setback exemption
   
9-4-102   Projections into required yards
   
9-4-103   Special standards for certain specific uses
   
9-4-104   Lighting standards; external
   
9-4-105   Exemptions and modifications
   
9-4-106   Relationship to Greenway Plan
Article G. Bufferyard Setbacks
   
9-4-115   Generally
   
9-4-116   Illustration of bufferyard setbacks
   
9-4-117   Determining the appropriate land use classification number
   
9-4-118   Bufferyard setback requirements
   
9-4-119   Bufferyard setback table
   
9-4-120   Standards
   
9-4-121   Nonconforming bufferyards
   
9-4-122   Vegetation requirements; applicability
Article H. Mobile Home Parks
   
9-4-129   Conformance with regulations
   
9-4-130   Procedures; required review, contents
   
9-4-131   Permitted uses
   
9-4-132   Density; availability requirement
   
9-4-133   Development standards
   
9-4-134   Garbage/trash container pad locations
   
9-4-135   Compliance with subdivision standards
   
9-4-136   Minimum fitness requirements
Article I. Multi-Family Development
   
9-4-141   Applicability
   
9-4-142   Procedures; required review, contents
   
9-4-143   Density
   
9-4-143.1   Minimum habitable (mechanical conditioned) floor area per unit
   
9-4-144   Open space
   
9-4-145   Development standards
   
9-4-146   Recreation area requirement (private)
   
9-4-147   Bufferyard setbacks and vegetation requirements
   
9-4-148   Parking requirements
   
9-4-149   Garbage/trash container, recycling center and compactor locations
   
9-4-150   Private streets
   
9-4-151   Compliance with subdivision standards
   
9-4-152   Applicability
   
9-4-153   Development standards CD Zoning District
Article J. Master Plan Community
   
9-4-161   Purpose and intent; definition; planned unit developments previously
approved, constructed and/or vested under the regulations; planned unit
development (PUD) zoning districts previously zoned under the regulations, for
which there is no vested plan of development
   
9-4-162   Area; regulation of uses; density; open space; recreation; parking;
landscape; density bonus requirements
   
9-4-163   Master plan community; residential uses dimensional standards
   
9-4-164   Master plan community; nonresidential use dimensional standards
   
9-4-165   Zero side or rear yard setbacks for detached and attached buildings
or structures
   
9-4-166   Special use permit; application, land use plan, preliminary plat-site
plan and final plat requirements
   
9-4-167   Site design criteria; general
   
9-4-167.1    Stormwater standards in master plan communities
   
9-4-168   Street design criteria
   
9-4-169   Utility services; maintenance of private facilities
   
9-4-170   Amendment to land use plan special use permit
Article K. Land Use Intensity (LUI) Development
   
9-4-179   Purpose and intent; terms and definitions
   
9-4-180   Land use intensity (LUI) ratings and requirements
   
9-4-181   Development standards
   
9-4-182   Garbage/trash container, recycling center and compactor locations
   
9-4-183   Private streets
   
9-4-184   Compliance with subdivision standards
   
9-4-185   Bufferyard setbacks and vegetation requirements
   
9-4-186   Special use permit; application, content, evidentiary hearing,
conditions of approval, required findings, notice, action, appeal, amendment
Article L. Special Districts
   
9-4-193   Planned Unoffensive Industry (PIU) and Planned Industry (PI) District
standards
   
9-4-194   Residential Neighborhood Revitalization (R-6N) District standards
   
9-4-195   Medical-General Commercial (MCG) District standards
   
9-4-196   Planned Unit Development (PUD) District standards
   
9-4-197   Water Supply Watershed (WS) Overlay District standards
   
9-4-198   Historic District (HD) Overlay District standards
   
9-4-199   Conservation Area (CA) Overlay District standards
   
9-4-200   R-6A Restricted Residential use (RU) Overlay District standards
   
9-4-200.1   Urban Core (UC) Overlay District standards
   
9-4-200.2   University Neighborhood Revitalization Initiative (UNRI) Overlay
District standards
   
9-4-200.3   Highway Sign Overlay District
   
9-4-200.4   MUI Mixed Use Institutional District standards
   
9-4-200.10   Recreational/Sport Hunting Overlay District
Article M. Residential Cluster Development
   
9-4-201   Purpose and intent; definition
   
9-4-202   Area; permitted districts, exemption; street access; open space(s);
relationship to Greenway Plan; density; dimensional standards
   
9-4-203   Zero side and/or rear yard setbacks
   
9-4-204   Private streets
   
9-4-205   Compliance with subdivision standards
Article M1. Vertical Mixed-Use Development
   
9-4-206   Purpose, intent and applicability
   
9-4-207   Residential density
   
9-4-208   Nonresidential uses
   
9-4-209   Development and dimensional standards
   
9-4-210   Building and site design
   
9-4-211   Open space standards
   
9-4-212   Parking requirements
   
9-4-213   Garbage/trash container, recycling center and compactor locations
   
9-4-214   General façade standards applicability
   
9-4-215   Master plan application requirements
Article N. Signs
   
9-4-221   Purpose
   
9-4-222   Definitions
   
9-4-223   Permits required
   
9-4-224   General requirements for signs
   
9-4-225   Nonconforming signs
   
9-4-226   Nonconforming sign; order to remedy or remove
   
9-4-227   Signs not requiring permits
   
9-4-228   Determining the number of signs
   
9-4-229   Computation of sign surface area
   
9-4-230   Total allowable sign surface area
   
9-4-231   Number of freestanding signs
   
9-4-232   Freestanding sign surface area
   
9-4-233   Special provisions for certain signs
   
9-4-234   Location and height requirements
   
9-4-235   Sign illumination and signs containing lights; electronic and
mechanical interchangeable sign face copy
   
9-4-236   Off-premises advertising sign requirements
   
9-4-237   Signs that are not permitted under the provisions of this article
Article O. Parking
   
9-4-241   Purpose
   
9-4-242   Off-street parking and loading required
   
9-4-243   Exemptions
   
9-4-244   Parking plan required
   
9-4-245   Bufferyard setbacks and vegetation requirements
   
9-4-246   Combination of required parking space
   
9-4-247   Nonconforming parking; expansion of floor area, other units of
measurement
   
9-4-248   Surface material requirement; front yard area coverage
   
9-4-249   Cross-district parking
   
9-4-250   Parking area location criteria
   
9-4-251   Improvement standards
   
9-4-252   Schedule of required parking spaces
   
9-4-253   Unlisted uses
   
9-4-254   Additional parking standards for certain specific uses
   
9-4-255   Parking standards specific to the University Neighborhood
Revitalization Initiative (UNRI) Overlay District   
Article P. Vegetation Requirements
   
9-4-260   Purpose
   
9-4-261   Generally
   
9-4-262   Preliminary and final vegetation plan required; approval; timing of
permits
   
9-4-263   Site vegetation material requirements (per acre)
   
9-4-264   Vegetation qualification standards; plant size
   
9-4-265   Vegetation material (category) substitution; installed and/or
existing
   
9-4-266   Screening vegetation requirement within Bufferyards C, D, E and F
   
9-4-267   Acceptable vegetation by material type
   
9-4-268   Standards
   
9-4-269   Definitions of certain terms; meanings
   
9-4-270   Maintenance of required vegetation
   
9-4-271   Nonconforming vegetation; compliance required
   
9-4-272    Flexibility in administration
Article Q. Other Requirements
   
9-4-281   Sidewalk requirements along major thoroughfares, minor thoroughfares
and boulevards
Article R. Site Plan Review
   
9-4-301   Purpose
   
9-4-302   Applicability
   
9-4-303   Application; submission requirements, review procedure
   
9-4-304   Compliance with subdivision regulations
   
9-4-305   Compliance with other applicable requirements
   
9-4-306   Issuance of permits; enforcement
   
9-4-307   Appeals; Land Development Administrative Manual requirements and
procedures; zoning regulations
   
9-4-308   Fee
   
9-4-309   Denial resulting from violation of tree protection prior to
development regulations
Article S. Board of Adjustment
   
9-4-316   Created
   
9-4-317   Composition
   
9-4-318   Appointment of members
   
9-4-319   Rules; meetings; records, proceedings to conform to statutory
requirements, conflicts
   
9-4-320   Powers and duties
   
9-4-321   Appeals procedure
   
9-4-322   Fee
   
9-4-323   Appeal stays all proceedings
   
9-4-324   Appeals from Board decisions
Article T. Amendments
   
9-4-331   Who may petition
   
9-4-332   Fee
   
9-4-333   Procedure
   
9-4-333.1   Zoning map amendments
   
9-4-334   Submittal to Planning and Zoning Commission for recommendation
   
9-4-334.1   Future Land Use Map: sequence of related zoning amendment
consideration; effect of denial of petition on subsequent similar petition
   
9-4-335   When City Council to consider amendments
   
9-4-336   Withdrawal of zoning amendment petition from Planning and Zoning
Commission consideration
   
9-4-337   Withdrawal of zoning amendment petition from City Council
consideration following Planning and Zoning Commission recommendation
   
9-4-338   Effect of denial of petition on subsequent similar petition
   
9-4-339   Appeal to decision of City Council
Article U. Administration, Enforcement, Penalties
   
9-4-349   Director of Planning and Development Services interprets
   
9-4-350   Duties of City Council
   
9-4-351   Enforcement and appeals
   
9-4-352   Permits required
   
9-4-353   Certificate of occupancy
   
9-4-354   Remedies
   
9-4-355   Revocation of permits and certificates
   
9-4-356   Penalties for violations
   
Appendix A: Table of uses
Cross-reference:
   Airport Zoning, see
Title 9, Chapter 3
   Flood Damage Prevention, see
Title 9, Chapter 6
   Planning and Zoning Commission, see
Title 9, Chapter 2
   Public Utilities, see Title 8
   Public Works, see Title 6
   Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control, see
Title 9, Chapter 8
   Storm drainage, see
Title 9, Chapter 9
   Subdivisions, see
Title 9, Chapter 5
Editor’s note:
   Section 1 of Ord. No. 2337, adopted June 13, 1991, deleted the former zoning
ordinance (Ch. 32), based on Ord. No. 332, as amended, which was not printed
herein, and enacted a new zoning ordinance as set out in this chapter. The
ordinance was printed substantially as enacted, with only minor stylistic
changes to conform to Code format. Material added by the editor for clarity is
enclosed in brackets.
   Section 1 of Ord. No. 94-156, adopted Dec. 8, 1994, repealed former § 9-4-
66, which pertained to DM downtown mall and derived from Ord. No. 2337, § 1,
adopted June 13, 1991.
   Ordinance No. 95-111, adopted Nov. 9, 1995, repealed Tit. 9, Ch. 4, Art. G,
§§ 9-4-115—9-4-123 and added a new Ch. 4, Art. G to read as herein set out.
Former Art. G pertained to bufferyards and derived from Ord. No. 2337, § 1,
adopted June 13, 1991; Ord. No. 2466, adopted June 8, 1992; Ord. No. 2480, §§
1, 2, adopted July 9, 1992; Ord. No. 2486, § 2, adopted June 8, 1992; Ord. No.
2538, § 1, adopted Nov. 12, 1992; Ord. No. 2540, § 1, adopted Nov. 12, 1992;
Ord. No. 2726, § 1, adopted Oct. 14, 1993; Ord. No. 94-156, § 4, adopted Dec.
8, 1994 and Ord. No. 95-52, § 1, adopted May 11, 1995.
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 9-4-1 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Zoning Ordinance for
Greenville, North Carolina” and may be referred to as the Zoning Ordinance or
this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-2 PURPOSE.
   These regulations are adopted to promote development of the land within the
city and within the extraterritorial area of the city in a manner which will
best promote the health, safety and the general welfare of the people, and for
the following specific purposes:
   (A)   To provide for efficiency and economy in the process of development;
   (B)   To make adequate provisions for traffic;
   (C)   To secure safety from fire, panic and other hazards;
   (D)   To provide for light and air;
   (E)   To prevent the overcrowding of land;
   (F)   To avoid undue concentration of population;
   (G)   To facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewage,
schools, parks and other public requirements;
   (H)   To promote desirable living conditions and the sustained stability of
neighborhoods;
   (I)   To protect property against blight and depreciation;
   (J)   To promote the aesthetic quality of the community; and
   (K)   For other purposes in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan for the
city and its extraterritorial area.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-3 INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   In interpreting and applying these regulations, the requirements
contained herein are the minimum requirements necessary to carry out the
purpose of this chapter.
   (B)   Except as provided herein, these regulations shall not be deemed to
interfere with, abrogate, annul or otherwise affect in any manner whatsoever
any easements, covenants, deed restrictions or other agreements between
parties.
   (C)   Wherever the provisions of these regulations impose greater
restrictions upon the use of land or buildings or require a larger percentage
of lot to be left unoccupied than other provisions of this Code or other
ordinances, rules, regulations, permits, or any easements, covenants, deed
restrictions or other agreements between parties, the provisions of these
regulations shall govern.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-4 JURISDICTION.
   These regulations shall govern the use and the development thereon of all
lands within the city and within the extraterritorial area of the city as
defined in this chapter and shown on the official zoning map for the city;
provided, however, these regulations shall not apply to bona fide farm
activities, in accordance with applicable State laws.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-4-5 ZONING MAP; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE AND INCORPORATED IN CHAPTER.
   This is to certify that this is the official zoning map referred to in the
Zoning Ordinance for the City of Greenville, North Carolina, the date of
adoption, as amended, together with all notes officially entered thereon, is
hereby adopted by reference as the official zoning map of the city and the
extraterritorial area within the zoning jurisdiction of the city, and it is
hereby incorporated in and made a part of this section as though it were fully
set out herein.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 97-85, § 3, passed 8-14-1997;
Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-4-6 SAME; WHERE AVAILABLE TO PUBLIC.
   The official zoning map shall remain on file in the office of the City Clerk
and shall be available to the public for inspection and use during all regular
business hours.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-7 SAME; MAINTENANCE IN CURRENT STATUS.
   The Director of Planning and Development Services shall be responsible for
the maintenance and revision of the official zoning map in print and digital
format by the director's designated Geographic Information System (GIS)
operator. Upon notification by the City Council that a zoning change has been
made, the Director of Planning and Development Services shall make the
necessary changes on the official zoning map within a reasonable time. Failure
to make the changes in a timely manner shall not affect the validity of the
zone change.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006;
Ord. No. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019 ; Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-
2021)
SEC. 9-4-8 SAME; REPLACEMENT.
   In the event that the official zoning map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost
or difficult to interpret, the City Council may by ordinance adopt a new
official zoning map which shall be the same in every detail as the map it
supersedes. The new map shall bear the signatures of the same officials as the
original and shall bear the seal of the city under the following words: “This
is to certify that this official zoning map supersedes and replaces the
official zoning map adopted [date of adoption of map replaced] and referred to
in the Zoning Ordinance for the City of Greenville, North Carolina.” The date
of adoption of the new official zoning map shall be shown also.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-9 LAND AND BUILDINGS REGULATED.
   No land, building or structure shall be used, no building or structure shall
be erected, and no existing building or structure shall be moved, added to,
enlarged or altered, except in conformity with these regulations or any other
applicable regulations. However, the application of these regulations shall not
affect agricultural cultivation.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-10 ONLY ONE PRINCIPAL USE UPON ANY LOT; EXCEPTIONS.
   There shall be no more than one principal use upon any lot in a residential
district, or on a lot with a permitted residential use, except as expressly
provided in these regulations.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-11 REDUCTION OR CHANGE IN LOT SIZE PROHIBITED.
   No lot shall be reduced or changed in size so that the total area; minimum
frontage; front, side or rear setbacks; lot area per dwelling unit; or other
dimensions, areas or open spaces required by these regulations are not
maintained. No lot shall be subdivided so as to produce an additional lot which
is not in conformity with these or other applicable regulations, unless the lot
is combined with other land to produce a conforming lot or unless the lot is
deeded, dedicated and accepted for public use.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-12 MAINTENANCE OF OPEN SPACE.
   No yard shall be encroached upon or reduced in any manner except in
conformity with these regulations. No yard for any principal building shall be
considered as a yard for any other principal building.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
 SEC. 9-4-13 USES PROHIBITED.
   Unless a use of land is specifically allowed in a zoning district, either as
a matter of right or as a special use, then the use shall be prohibited in the
district.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-14 AIRPORT ZONING ORDINANCE.
   All uses, including agricultural cultivation, made of land within any zoning
district established by the Pitt-Greenville Airport zoning ordinance shall be
in conformance with the use restrictions set forth in Title 9, Chapter 3 of the
City Code.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-15 REENACTMENT OF PRIOR ZONING PROVISIONS; SAVING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   This chapter in part carries forward by reenactment some of the
provisions of the prior zoning ordinance of the city (adopted by the City
Council, as amended), and it is not the intention of the City Council to
repeal, but rather to reenact; and continue in force all provisions adopted May
8, 1969 so that all rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are
preserved and may be enforced. All provisions of the zoning ordinance of the
city enacted on June 17, 1947, as amended, which are not reenacted herein are
hereby repealed.
   (B)   All suits at law or in equity and all prosecutions resulting from the
violation of any zoning ordinance heretofore in effect, which are now pending
in any of the courts of North Carolina or of the United States, shall not be
abated or abandoned by reason of the adoption of this chapter but shall be
prosecuted to their finality the same as if this chapter had not been adopted;
any and all violations of the existing Zoning Ordinance, prosecutions for which
have not yet been instituted, may be hereafter filed and prosecuted; and
nothing in this chapter shall be construed as to abandon, abate or dismiss any
litigation or prosecution now pending or which may heretofore have been
instituted or prosecuted.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-16 TREE PROTECTION PRIOR TO DEVELOPMENT.
   The provisions of
Article B of Chapter 5 of Title 6 of the Greenville City Code shall apply to
undeveloped property.
(Ord. No. 07-33, § 3, passed 3-8-2007)
ARTICLE B. DEFINITIONS
SEC. 9-4-21 USAGE.
   (A)   The numbers, abbreviations, terms and words used in these regulations
shall be used, interpreted and defined as this article provides; words or terms
not defined shall have their customary dictionary definition. Words or terms
defined in other articles shall have the definitions provided in that article.
   (B)   Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary, words used in
the present tense include the future tense; words used in the plural number
include the singular; words used in the singular include the plural; the word
“herein” means “in these regulations;” the word “regulations” means “these
regulations;” words of any gender shall be applicable to all genders.
   (C)   A “person” includes a corporation, a partnership, and an incorporated
or unincorporated association of persons such as a club; “shall” is always
mandatory; “may” is permissive; a “building” includes a “structure;” a
“building” or “structure” includes any part thereof.
   (D)   When any requirement of these regulations results in a fraction of a
number or unit, then a fraction of one-half or more shall be considered as the
next higher whole number or unit, and a fraction of less than one-half shall be
disregarded. This provision shall apply to numbers including but not limited to
parking requirements, numbers of dwelling units, vegetation requirements, and
square footage computations.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-22 WORDS AND TERMS DEFINED.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
Accessory building. A subordinate building or structure located on the same lot
as, and detached from, the principal building, the use of which is an accessory
use to that of the principal building.
Accessory use. A use which meets the following conditions:
   (1)   A use located on the same lot as the principal use, whether located in
the same building, in an accessory building or as an accessory use of land;
   (2)   Is incidental to and subordinate to the principal use;
   (3)   Will be constructed, maintained and conducted to avoid creation of a
nuisance or hazard to the principal use or area uses to a greater degree than
that which can be expected by the principal use prior to creation of the
accessory use;
   (4)   In no case shall storage space and the operation of an accessory use
exceed 20% of the total square footage of the building(s) or 20% if the total
land area used where the principal use is located;
   (5)   Does not enlarge, expand, or change the nature of the use of an
otherwise nonconforming principal use;
   (6)   Shall not be established until approval of all required permits for
the principal and the accessory use or activity; and
   (7)   Meeting all standards for the use, as required by the Chapter, as
though it were a principal use, except parking.
Accessory use; alcohol sales. Allows the on-premise sale and consumption of
malt beverages, unfortified and fortified wine, and spirituous liquor. A use
which meets the following conditions:
   (1)   A use located on the same lot as the principal use, whether located in
the same building, in an accessory building or as an accessory use of land;
   (2)   Is incidental to and subordinate to the principal use;
   (3)   Will be constructed, maintained and conducted to avoid creation of a
nuisance or hazard to the principal use or area uses to a greater degree than
that which can be expected by the principal use prior to creation of the
accessory use;
   (4)   In no case shall storage space and the operation of an accessory use
exceed 20% of the total square footage of the building(s) or 20% if the total
land area used where the principal use is located;
   (5)   Does not enlarge, expand, or change the nature of the use of an
otherwise nonconforming principal use;
   (6)   Shall not be established until approval of all required permits,
including but not limited to special use permits, ABC permits and local beer
and wine licenses, for the principal and the accessory use or activity;
   (7)   Shall only be permitted in the zoning districts as shown in Title 9,
Chapter 4, Article U, Appendix A, Table of Uses;
   (8)   Shall only be permitted as an accessory to the following uses as
listed in Title 9, Chapter 4, Article U, Appendix A, Table of Uses: (10) Retail
Sales:
      a.   Miscellaneous retail sales; nondurable goods; not otherwise listed
      p.   Furniture and home furnishing sales not otherwise listed
      r.   Antique sales, excluding vehicles
      s.   Book or card store; news stand
      t.   Hobby or craft shop
      v.   Video or music store; record, tape, compact disc and the like sales
      x.   Sporting goods sales and rental shop.
   (9)   Meeting all standards for the use, as required by the Chapter, as
though it were a principal use, except parking.
Administrative decision. A decision made in the implementation, administration,
or enforcement of development regulations that involves the determination of
facts and the application of objective standards set forth in this Ordinance.
Administrative hearing. A proceeding to gather facts needed to make an
administrative decision.
Adult use. Any principal or accessory use which excludes minors by reason of
age. This definition shall not apply to any exclusion due to applicable
alcoholic beverage control laws or voluntary restrictions of the motion picture
industry.
Airport zoning ordinance terms and definitions. See
Title 9, Chapter 3, Greenville City Code.
Alley. A public vehicular or pedestrian way which affords only a secondary
means of access to abutting property.
Animal boarding; outside facility. Any facility for the purpose of boarding
domesticated animals on a commercial basis or as an accessory use to district
uses. This definition does not include livestock sales pavilions, auditoriums,
yards, distribution facilities, transhipment facilities or slaughterhouses.
Article. As used herein, shall refer to those articles found within this
chapter, unless otherwise referenced.
Athletic club. A commercial establishment engaged in providing a variety of
apparatus and facilities, to individuals and/or groups of persons, for purposes
of physical exercise, athletic competition, and related recreational,
educational and personal development activities. An “athletic club” may include
the following accessory activities: racquetball courts, basketball courts,
volleyball courts, tennis courts and the like: swimming pools, lap pools,
diving pools, water slides and the like; roller skating, roller blading, ice
skating, skate boarding and the like, soccer fields, baseball/softball fields
and the like; track and field event facilities; exercise programs including
aerobic and strength training; personal training, fitness evaluation, massage
therapy treatment by members in the American Massage Therapy Association or
equivalent per Title 11, Chapter 10, Article B, section
11-10-11 of the City Code, as amended, wellness and health education programs;
ancillary food services such as an employee and/or patron cafeteria or eating
area.
Automobile graveyard. An establishment or place of business which is
maintained, used or operated for storing, keeping, buying or selling wrecked,
scrapped, ruined or dismantled motor vehicles or motor vehicle parts. Any
establishment or place of business upon which six or more unlicensed, used
motor vehicles which cannot be operated under their own power are kept or
stored for a period of 15 days or more shall be deemed to be an “automobile
graveyard.” See also definition of junkyard.
Automobile, truck, recreational vehicle, motorcycle and boat sales.
Establishments engaged in the retail and/or wholesale of new and/or used
automobiles, trucks, recreational vehicles and campers, motorcycles and motor
boats including other watercraft, trailers, marine supplies and outboard
motors, collectively referred to as vehicles for purposes of this definition.
These establishments frequently maintain repair departments (see also major and
minor repair) and carry stocks of replacement parts and accessories. For
purposes of interpretation, the concurrent display for sale of not more than
any five such vehicles upon a lot containing a legal nonresidential principal
use may be considered an accessory use in accordance with applicable conditions
set forth by definition. Specifically, the concurrent display for sale of not
more than any five such vehicles upon any lot containing a legal vehicle-
related major or minor repair establishment, or a bank, savings and loan or
other lending institution engaged in the repossession of vehicles shall be
considered an accessory use to the principal use.
Bar. 
   (1)   An establishment of which the principal use is primarily engaged in
the business of selling alcoholic beverages and for consumption on the
premises. A bar shall not include a brewery, winery, or distillery. A bar must
meet all of the following:
      (a)   May provide live or recorded amplified music;
      (b)   May provide a floor show;
      (c)   May provide a dance area;
      (d)   May offer a full service bar; and
      (e)   Does not qualify under the definitions of restaurant, fast food;
restaurant, conventional; or bar 2022 as contained in this section.
   (2)   Any proposed or established "restaurant; conventional" that does not
comply with the definition, standards or requirements applicable to a
"restaurant; conventional" as contained herein shall be classified as a "bar"
for purposes of zoning regulation.
Bar 2022. An establishment of which the principal use is entertainment and
which meets all of the following:
   (1)   Occupies less than 2,000 square feet of space of premises;
   (2)   May provide live or recorded amplified music;
   (3)   May provide a floor show;
   (4)   May provide a dance area;
   (5)   Shall only be allowed with a special use permit in the following
geographic area:
      Uptown District: Beginning at the intersection of West Third Street and
South Pitt Street, between along West and East Third Streets between South Pitt
Street and Reade Street; Reade Street and Reade Circle between East Third
Street to Cotanche Street; Cotanche Street between Reade Circle to East Eighth
Street; East Eighth Street between Cotanche Street and Evans Street; Evans
Street between East Eighth Street and East Tenth Street; West Tenth Street
between Evans Street and Coastal Seaboard Railroad; Coastal Seaboard Railroad
between West Tenth Street and West Fifth Street; West Fifth Street between
Coastal Seaboard Railroad and Pitt-Greene Connector; South Pitt Street between
West Fifth Street to West Third Street and returning to the point of beginning.
Bed and breakfast inn home occupation. A single-family dwelling within which
the resident owner offers temporary overnight accommodations to visitors for
compensation. The use may be allowed as an accessory use home occupation to a
single-family dwelling upon special use permit approval of the Board of
Adjustment and in accordance with the additional conditions and requirements of
section
9-4-86(U).
Beekeeping; major use. Use of any lot or building for the keeping of more than
six hives.
Beekeeping; minor use. Use of any lot or building for the keeping of not more
than six hives.
Best management practices (BMPs). See Article L.
Billiard parlor; pool room. Any establishment that has more than four billiard/
pool tables or whose principal purpose is the operation of a billiard parlor or
pool room regardless of the total number of billiard/pool tables.
Board of Adjustment. See Article S.
Boarding or rooming house. Any single-family dwelling, in which space is let by
the owner occupant to not more than four persons who are not related by blood,
adoption or marriage to the owner occupant. See also definition of family.
Bona fide farm. A farm used for purposes including the production and
activities relating or incidental to the production of crops, grains, fruits,
vegetables, ornamental and flowering plants, dairy, livestock, poultry, and all
other forms of agriculture as defined in G.S. 106.581.1. Activities incidental
to the farm include existing or new residences occupied by the owner, lessee,
or operator of the farm and other buildings or structures supporting the farm
use and operation (see G.S. 160D-903).
Buffer; water supply watershed. An area of natural or planted vegetation
through which stormwater runoff flows in a diffuse manner so that the runoff
does not become channelized and which provides for infiltration of the runoff
and filtering of pollutants. The buffer is measured landward from the normal
pool elevation of impounded structures and from the top of bank of each side of
streams or rivers.
Bufferyard. See Article G.
Building. A structure with a roof which is designed or intended for the
shelter, support, protection or enclosure of persons, animals, or property of
any kind.
Building inspector. The person, officer or official or his or her authorized
representative, whom the City Council has designated as its agent for the
enforcement of the provisions of
Title 9, Chapter 1, Inspections and Code Enforcement, of the City Code and the
administration of duties as further provided under this chapter.
Built-upon area. Includes that portion of a development project that is covered
by impervious or partially impervious cover, including buildings, pavement,
gravel roads, recreation facilities (e.g., tennis courts) and the like (note:
wooden slatted decks and the water area of a swimming pool are considered
pervious).
Campus. The grounds of a school, college, university, hospital, church, or
other institution that consists of several buildings developed and operated
under a unified concept on a single tract of land or on multiple tracts of land
which are in close proximity.
Catalogue processing center. An establishment engaged in the processing of
mail/phone orders from merchandise catalogue(s) for on-site and/or remote
transhipment of goods. All other principal and/or accessory use activities,
including but not limited to retail/wholesale sales, manufacturing, storage,
warehousing and the like, conducted in conjunction with any “catalogue
processing center” shall be subject to independent approval in accordance with
district regulations.
Catering service. An establishment engaged in the preparation and retail sale
of food in a ready-to-consume state, for delivery and/or carry-out service, for
off-site consumption at remote locations. The use shall not offer drive-through
or drive-in services. See also definitions of restaurant, conventional and
restaurant, fast food.
Certificate of compliance. A document that is required to represent that the
work, as described in the permit documents, has been completed.
Chapter. As used herein shall refer to this chapter, Chapter 4, Zoning
Ordinance for Greenville, North Carolina, unless otherwise referenced.
Church or place of worship. A building in which persons regularly assemble for
religious worship and which is maintained and controlled by a religious body
organized to sustain public worship and holding a certificate of nonprofit
organization from the Secretary of State.
City Council. The governing body of the city as provided by the Charter of the
City of Greenville, North Carolina. The Mayor and Council on behalf of the
city, and in conformity with applicable laws, provide for the exercise of all
municipal powers and are charged with the general government of the city.
Civic organization. A community-oriented humanitarian and social organization
holding a certificate of nonprofit organization from the Secretary of State.
Close familial relationship. A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister,
grandparent or grandchild. Includes the step, half, and in-law relationships.
Commercial agricultural facility. A commercial establishment designed to
accommodate a variety of commercial uses adjacent to a farm.
(Ord. No. 20-059, § 1, passed 10-19-2020)
Convenience store. Any food-personal merchandise store which sells at retail
only prepackaged food and beverage products, personal toiletries, sundries,
over-the-counter medications, household supplies, magazines, and the like in
combination from a limited inventory and does not stock poultry or meats.
County government operation center. A planned and unified development owned and
operated by the county for the purpose of governmental service delivery to
county residents. The development shall contain not less than 100 contiguous
gross acres exclusive to itself and its various subparts contained therein. The
term shall include offices, fire station, Sheriff Department, county jail,
court, library, museum, recreation and craft facilities, park, auditorium,
gymnasium, vehicle and equipment minor and major repair, indoor and outdoor
storage, warehouse, health and/or social service clinic, adult education, adult
and child day care, cooking and dining facilities, group care facilities and
social and civic meeting rooms. Uses not specifically listed above shall only
be allowed in accordance with the table of permitted and special uses for the
particular district, as set forth in section
9-4-78 and
Appendix A to this chapter.
County, state or federal government building or use. Any building, structure or
use of the county, state or federal government or their various subparts. The
term shall include offices, libraries, fire stations, sheriff department,
court, recreation facilities and parks. Uses not listed above shall only be
allowed in accordance with the table of permitted and special uses for the
particular district.
Data processing center. A building or dedicated space within a building used to
house a large group of computer systems and associated components, such as
telecommunications and data processing systems, to be used for the remote
storage, processing, or distribution of large amounts of data. Such facilities
may also include air handlers, power generators, water cooling and storage
facilities, utility substations, and other associated utility infrastructure to
support operations.
Day care; adult. An establishment which provides for the care and supervision
of six or more aged, handicapped or disabled adults away from their homes by
persons other than their family members, custodians or guardians for periods
not to exceed 18 hours within any 24-hour period.
Day care; child. An establishment which provides for the care and supervision
of six or more children away from their homes by persons other than their
family members, custodians or guardians for periods not to exceed 18 hours
within any 24-hour period.
Determination. A written, final, and binding order or requirement regarding an
administrative decision.
Developer. A person, including a governmental agency or redevelopment
authority, who undertakes any development and who is the landowner of the
property to be developed or who has been authorized by the landowner to
undertake development on that property.
Development. Any change to improved or unimproved real estate requiring a
permit from the City of Greenville, including but not limited to, the building,
alteration, enlargement, renovation, substantial repair, movement to another
site, or demolition of any structure: excavation, grading, filling, clearing,
or alteration of land; the subdivision of land as defined in G.S. 160D-802: or
initiation or a substantial change in the use of land or the intensity of the
use of land, (see 160D-102(12)).
Development approval. An administrative or quasi-judicial approval made in
accordance with G.S. Chapter 160D that is written and that is required prior to
commencing development or undertaking a specific activity, project, or
development proposal. Development approvals include, but are not limited to.
zoning permits, site plan approvals, special use permits, variances, and
certificates of appropriateness. The term also includes all other regulatory
approvals required by regulations adopted pursuant to Title 9 of the Code of
Ordinances, including plat approvals, permits issued, development agreements
entered into, and building permits issued.
Development regulation. A zoning regulation, subdivision regulation, erosion
and sedimentation control regulation, floodplain or flood damage prevention
regulation, stormwater control regulation, wireless telecommunication facility
regulation, historic preservation or landmark regulation, housing code, State
Building Code enforcement, or any other regulation adopted in accordance with
G.S. Chapter 160D, or a local act or charter that regulates land use or
development.
Digital broadcast studio. An establishment containing one or more studios for
the staging and recording, as well as digital distribution, of video or audio
productions. Such productions include, but are not limited to, music, web
streaming and non-feature length film.
Dining and entertainment establishment.  See definition of restaurant,
conventional.
Director of Planning and Development Services. The person, officer or official,
or his or her authorized representative, whom the City Council has designated
as its agent for the acceptance, coordination and approval of all plans and
permits required by this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided in the
particular case. The “Director of Planning and Development Services” shall,
excepting City Manager authority, have final administrative interpretation
concerning the meaning, requirement or extent of any section, graphic or
description set forth by this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided
in the particular case.
Distributed antenna system (DAS) equipment. A network of spatially separated
antenna sites and supporting equipment connected to a common source that
provides wireless service within a geographic area or structure. DAS and DAS
equipment are not considered a public utility or use and as such, are not
exempt from placement preference regulations when DAS equipment is proposed on
city-owned property, within public rights-of-way and on or adjacent to existing
or planned sidewalks as set forth in section
9-4-103(Q). The equipment and structures to support DAS are free-standing
telecommunication towers even if they are intended to replace existing light
poles, utility poles, or similar structures.
District; zoning. A section of the city or its extraterritorial area within
which the zoning regulations are uniform.
Domestic Violence Center. A home for adults and children seeking relief and
refuge from family violence and abuse.
Dormitory. A building or group of buildings where group sleeping accommodations
are provided with or without meals for persons not members of the same family
group, in one room or in a series of closely associated rooms under joint
occupancy and single management, such as a college dormitory or privately owned
dormitory intended for use by college students.
Down-zoning. A zoning ordinance that affects an area of land by either a)
decreasing the development density of the land to be less dense than was
allowed under its previous usage or b) reducing the permitted uses of land that
are specified in a zoning ordinance to fewer uses than were allowed under its
previous zoning classification.
Drive-through facilities. Facilities which are accessory to a principal use
whereby goods or services may be offered directly to customers in motor
vehicles by means which eliminate the need for customers to leave their motor
vehicles. Each pickup point and associated order point(s) shall constitute a
single facility.
(Ord. No. 19-057, § 1, passed 12-12-2019)
Driveway and related terms. See
Title 6, Chapter 2, Article B of the City Code.
Durable goods. Any commodity whose useful life is expected to exceed three or
more years.
Dwelling. Any building, structure, manufactured home, or mobile home, or part
thereof, used and occupied for human habitation or intended to be so used, and
includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually enjoyed
therewith. For the purposes of G.S. 160D Article 12, the term does not include
any manufactured home, mobile home, or recreational vehicle, if used solely for
a seasonal vacation purpose.
Dwelling unit. A single independent housekeeping unit with sanitation, living,
dining, sleeping, and permanently installed kitchen facilities for use by one
family.
Dwelling; single-family. A separate and detached structure containing one
dwelling unit designed for occupancy by one family on an individual lot
exclusive to the unit and its accessory use.
Dwelling; two-family attached (duplex). A separate and detached structure
containing two attached dwelling units, each designed for occupancy by one
family on an individual lot exclusive to the units and their accessory uses.
Dwelling; multi-family. A separate and detached structure or group of
structures containing three or more total dwelling units on a common lot and
sharing common facilities; or two or more single-family or two-family attached
dwellings located on a common lot; or one or more attached dwelling units on a
common lot and sharing common facilities with a nonresidential use. Excluded
from this definition are mobile home parks and residential quarters for
resident manager, supervisor or caretaker, as defined in this section.
Evidentiary hearing. A hearing to gather competent, material, and substantial
evidence to make findings for a quasi-judicial decision as required by this
ordinance.
Extraterritorial jurisdiction. The area beyond the corporate limits within
which the planning, zoning and building regulations of the city apply in
accordance with state law. The area is delineated on the official zoning map
for the city.
Family. An individual living alone, or two or more persons related by blood,
adoption or marriage, or a group of not more than three unrelated persons
living together as a single housekeeping unit in a shared dwelling unit. See
also definition of room renting.
   (1)   For purposes of this definition the term “persons related by blood,
adoption or marriage” shall constitute the following:
      (a)   Blood relations.
         1.   Parents (including grandparents);
         2.   Sons and daughters;
         3.   Siblings;
         4.   Uncles and aunts (including great uncles and aunts);
         5.   Nephews and nieces (children of a brother or sister); and
         6.   First cousins (children of brothers and/or sisters).
      (b)   Marriage relations.
         1.   Spouse;
         2.   Step relations (mother/father, son/daughter, brother/sister);
         3.   Half relations (brother/sister); and
         4.   In-laws (mother/father, son/daughter, brother/sister).
       (c)   Adoption.
         1.   As provided by law; and
         2.   Foster parent/child, custody consent order, or other legally
recognized form of guardianship.
   (2)   Specifically, the individual or combination of persons listed herein
may occupy a dwelling unit under this definition.
      (a)   One individual living alone;
      (b)   Up to three unrelated individuals;
      (c)   Two or more individuals related by blood, adoption or marriage
(i.e., family);
      (d)   One family (subsection (c) above) and up to two unrelated
individuals (i.e., room renting); or
      (e)   One family (subsection (c) above) and up to two related individuals
(i.e., room renting).
Family care home. An establishment defined under G.S. 160D-907 as amended, with
support and supervisory personnel that provides room and board, personal care
and rehabilitation services in a family environment for not more than six
resident “persons with disabilities.” “Person with disabilities” means a person
with a temporary or permanent physical, emotional, or mental disability
including but not limited to mental retardation, cerebral palsy, epilepsy,
autism, hearing and sight impairments, emotional disturbance and orthopedic
impairments but not including mentally ill persons who are dangerous to others
as defined under G.S. 122-3(11)b. “Dangerous to others” means that within the
relevant past, the individual has inflicted or attempted to inflict or
threatened to inflict serious bodily harm on another, or has acted in such a
way as to create a substantial risk of serious bodily harm to another, or has
engaged in extreme destruction of property: and that there is a reasonable
probability that this conduct will be repeated. Previous episodes of
dangerousness to others, when applicable, may be considered when determining
reasonable probability of future dangerous conduct. Clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence that an individual has committed a homicide in the relevant
past is prima facie evidence of dangerousness to others.
      (1)   The following shall be considered a “person with disabilities” for
the purpose of this definition:
         (a)   An elderly and disabled person suffering from Alzheimer’s,
senile dementia, organic brain syndrome;
         (b)   A recovering alcoholic or drug addict who is not currently using
an illegal controlled substance; and/or
         (c)   A person with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and/or acquired
immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS), who is in ambulatory condition.
      (2)   Professionals or paraprofessionals providing assistance to the
occupants shall be allowed in addition to the maximum occupancy.
Farmers market. A structure or location wherein space is provided to multiple
independent operators for the purpose of retail and/or wholesale trade of raw
agricultural products; provided, however, the use shall not include the
processing of any product or the sale of poultry, fish, shellfish, pork, beef
or other wildlife or domesticated meat products.
Farming. 
      (1)   Establishments (farms, ranches, dairies, nurseries, orchards,
hatcheries and the like) primarily engaged in the production of crops, plants,
vines or trees (excluding saw mills); and the keeping, grazing, or feeding of
livestock for the sale of livestock or livestock products, for livestock
increase, or for value increase. “Livestock” as used here includes cattle,
sheep, goats, hogs and poultry. Also included are animal specialties such as
horses, rabbits and fish in captivity. Agricultural production also includes
establishments primarily engaged in the operation of sod farms, mushroom
cellars, poultry hatcheries, and in the production of bulbs, flower seeds and
vegetable seeds.
      (2)   A farm may consist of a single tract of land, or a number of
separate tracts which may be held under different tenures. It may be operated
by the operator alone or with the assistance of members of his or her household
or hired employees, or it may be operated by a partnership, corporation, or
other type of organization.
Fence. An artificially constructed barrier of wood, masonry, stone, wire,
metal, or other manufactured material or combination of materials, not to
include any portion of a building, enclosing an area of ground to mark a
boundary, control access, enclose, screen, or separate areas.
(Ord. No. 21-010, § 1, passed 2-15-2021)
Flood damage prevention ordinance. An ordinance adopted by the City of
Greenville found in Title 9, Chapter 6 of the City Code regulating development
within flood hazard areas as designated by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency.
Fraternity or sorority house. A dwelling and associated grounds occupied by and
maintained for college or university students who are affiliated with a social,
honorary or professional organization recognized by a college or university or
within which the functions of such an organization are conducted.
Game center. Any establishment that has more than five coin/token operated or
other amusement devices or whose principal purpose is the operation of a “game
center” regardless of the total number of amusement devices. For purposes of
this definition, the term “amusement devices” shall include electronic games
and similar machines, and any other game table or device. Bingo parlors shall
be considered as “game centers” regardless of the number of participants. See
also definition of billiard parlor; pool room.
Golf course; nine-hole regulation length. A golf course which contains a
minimum of nine, but less than 18, United States Golf Association (USGA) and
National Golf Foundation (NGF) regulation length golf holes. The “golf course”
may contain optional accessory use facilities including a member-guest only
dining facility, snack bar, pro-shop, member-guest only social club, tennis
courts, swimming facilities and/or other customarily associated golf course
activity, which is open to members, guests and/or the general public. The “golf
course” may be limited to member-guests only or may be open to the general
public at the option of the golf course owner/management. A “nine-hole
regulation length golf course” shall not contain an accessory public
restaurant. For purposes of regulation under this chapter, an “executive length
golf course” containing nine or more golf holes, shall be construed as a “golf
course; nine-hole regulation length.” See also section 9-4-103(T).
Golf course; 18-hole regulation length. A golf course containing 18 or more
United States Golf Association (USGA) and National Golf Foundation (NGF)
regulation length golf holes, and optional accessory use facilities including a
member-guest only dining facility and/or a public restaurant, snack bar, pro-
shop, member-guest only social club, tennis courts, swimming facilities and/or
other customarily associated golf course activity, which is open to members,
guests and/or the general public. The “golf course” may be limited to member-
guests only or may be open to the general public at the option of the golf
course owner/management. For purposes of regulation under this chapter, an
“executive length golf course,” containing 18 or more golf holes shall be
construed as a “golf course; nine-hole regulation length.” See also section 9-
4-103(T).
Group care facility. An establishment qualified for a license by the State of
North Carolina for provision of resident services to more than six but not more
than 25 residents who are physically disabled, mentally retarded,
developmentally disabled, persons recuperating from alcohol or drug related
problems, persons adjusting to society as an alternative to imprisonment and
persons recuperating from mental or emotional illness. This definition shall
not include mentally ill persons who are dangerous to others. “Dangerous to
others” means that within the recent past, the individual has inflicted or
attempted to inflict or threatened to inflict serious bodily harm on another,
or has acted in such a way as to create a substantial risk of serious bodily
harm to another, or has engaged in extreme destruction of property; and that
there is a reasonable probability that his or her conduct will be repeated.
Previous episodes of dangerousness to others, when applicable, may be
considered when determining reasonable probability of future dangerous conduct.
Professionals or paraprofessionals providing assistance to the occupants shall
be allowed in addition to the maximum occupancy.
Guest house for a college or other institution of higher learning. A building
and accessory structure(s) designed for residential occupancy and containing
rooms, suites, separate or connecting units, where without compensation lodging
is provided on a short-term basis to guests of the associated institution. For
purposes of this definition, the words “short- term basis” shall include only
daily or weekly periods. No persons shall utilize, consider or reference any
room, suite or unit within any “guest house” as a secondary or primary place of
residence. This definition shall not include hotel or motel and/or bed and
breakfast inns.
Hazardous. Any use, product, operation, material, compound or reaction which by
its known or reasonably expected nature creates excessive noise, odor, smoke,
dust, danger of fire or explosion, emission of gas, particles, solids or other
objectionable or toxic characteristics which may adversely impact the public’s
health, safety and general welfare. Nonhazardous shall include those attributes
which by their nature do not qualify under the above definition.
Hazardous material. Any substance listed as such in SARA Section 302, Extremely
Hazardous Substances, CERCLA Hazardous Substances, or Section 311 of CWA (oil
and hazardous substances) as amended. See also definition of toxic substance.
Height of structure. The vertical distance from grade to the highest finished
roof surface in the case of flat roofs or to a point at the average height of
the highest roof having a pitch. For purposes of this definition the term
“grade” shall be construed as the average street side ground elevation at the
base of a structure. Any decorative roof structure or parapet wall extending
above an exterior wall line shall be included in and count toward the
calculation of allowable height. The average height of a pitch roof shall be
the midpoint of a vertical line extending from the top of the exterior wall to
the highest point of the finished roof surface.
Historic Preservation Commission terms and definitions. See Title 9, Chapter 7,
Greenville City Code.
Home occupation. An activity conducted for financial gain as an accessory use
to a detached single-family dwelling unit by a member of the family residing in
the dwelling unit.
      (1)   “Home occupation” shall meet all of the following characteristics:
         (a)   Shall only be permitted within detached single-family dwelling
units;
         (b)   Shall not be permitted within any accessory building;
         (c)   Shall constitute an accessory use to the principal use;
         (d)   Shall not occupy more than 20% of the mechanically conditioned
enclosed floor space of the dwelling unit;
         (e)   Shall not employ more than one person other than those persons
legally residing within the principal use dwelling;
         (f)   Shall not be visible from any public right-of-way or adjacent
property line;
         (g)   Shall not involve the on-site sales of products;
         (h)   Shall not involve any outside storage of related materials,
parts or supplies;
         (i)   Shall have signage in accordance with Article N; and
         (j)   Shall not create any hazard or nuisance to the occupants
residing or working within the principal use dwelling or to area residents or
properties.
      (2)   The following permitted limited in-home services and/or business
activities shall not constitute a “home occupation” and shall be construed as
an incidental accessory residential use within any dwelling, for purposes of
regulation under this chapter, provided that: 1. not more than one person is
engaged in the conduct of the listed activity; 2. the person that is engaged in
the conduct of the activity shall be a permanent resident within the subject
dwelling; 3. not more than two customer/clients shall be allowed on the
premises at any one time; 4. no on-site signage shall be displayed in
connection with the limited in-home service and/or business activity; and 5.
the activity is compliant with characteristics (1)(b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h),
and (j) above:
         (a)   Music or dance instructor, provided all associated amplified
and/or non-amplified sound is not plainly audible, within any adjacent area
dwelling unit or beyond the adjacent property line;
         (b)   Educational tutoring;
         (c)   Accountant, tax and/or financial advisor, stockbroker;
         (d)   Attorney at law;
         (e)   Counseling, including psychologist, marriage and similar
professional counselor;
         (f)   Doctor, physical therapist or other similar health care
professional;
         (g)   Consultant, including public relations, advertising, computer
science, engineering, architect and other similar professional consultant;
         (h)   Clothes alteration seamstress; excluding garment manufacturing,
shoe repair and sales of clothing items;
         (i)   Catalogue ordering sales consultant business wherein retail
products are ordered by the end customer from a catalogue and/or by reference
to limited samples displayed at off-site locations remote to the business
address;
         (j)   Artist, photographer/videographer, graphic designer, writer;
         (k)   Real estate broker/realtor;
         (l)   Real estate/personal property appraiser;
         (m)   General contractor, including building, painting, electrical,
plumbing, mechanical, landscape, and cleaning/janitorial service, excluding any
of the following activities on-site:
            1.   Physical display and/or storage of products and materials;
            2.   Manufacture or assembly;
            3.   Storage of construction or service delivery equipment
including trucks, trailers, excavators, tractors, and mowers of a type and
number uncommon to typical domestic residential use; provided, however, a
personal transportation vehicle customarily associated with residential use
shall be permitted.
         (n)   The incidental use of any dwelling by the occupant(s) for the
purpose of receiving or transmitting messages or mail, record or bookkeeping,
filing, address listing for applicable privilege license or tax identification
and other similar activities, which do not involve the on-site sale, delivery,
distribution, reception, storage or manufacture of goods, products or services.
Hookah Café. An establishment that, as a primary or accessory use, provides for
the on-site consumption of shisha or similar flavored tobacco products.
Hotel, motel, bed and breakfast inn; extended stay lodging. A building or group
of buildings containing guest rooms, suites, separate or connecting units where
for compensation lodging is provided on an extended stay basis. For purposes of
this definition, the words “extended stay basis” shall include daily, weekly or
monthly periods not to exceed 90 continuous days. See also definition of hotel,
motel, bed and breakfast inn; limited stay lodging.
Hotel, motel, bed and breakfast inn; limited stay lodging. A building or group
of buildings containing guest rooms, suites, separate or connecting units where
for compensation lodging is provided on a limited stay basis. For purposes of
this definition, the words “limited stay basis” shall include only daily or
weekly periods not to exceed 30 continuous days. See also definition of hotel,
motel, bed and breakfast inn; extended stay lodging.
Incidental assembly; accessory. The process of blending or assembling
previously manufactured components or parts into finished products, for
wholesale and/or retail trade from the point of assembly.
Internal service facility. Facilities incidental to the permitted
nonresidential principal use(s), including cafeterias, snack bars and similar
retail activities conducted solely for the convenience of employees, patients,
patrons, or occasional visitors, provided that the facilities are housed within
the principal or related buildings and provided that neither the facility
itself nor any advertising display is visible beyond the premises.
Internet sweepstakes business. Any business enterprise, whether as a principal
or an accessory use, where persons utilize electronic machines, including but
not limited to computers and gaming terminals, to conduct games, including but
not limited to sweepstakes and video poker, and where cash, merchandise or
other items of value are redeemed or otherwise distributed, whether or not the
value of such distribution is determined by electronic games played or by
predetermined odds. This use does not include any lottery approved by the State
of North Carolina.
Junk yard. Use of land or buildings or other structures for indoor and outdoor
storage, collection, demolition, dismantling, processing, abandonment, sale or
resale of junk including scrap metal, rags, paper, other scrap materials, used
lumber, used building materials, salvaged house wrecking, salvaged structural
steel, salvaged materials, salvaged equipment, automobiles, and boats or other
vehicles or machinery or parts thereof. This definition shall also include
automobile graveyards.
Kennel. A use of land or buildings for the keeping of four or more dogs.
Landfill. A facility for the disposal of solid waste on land in a sanitary
manner in accordance with G.S. Chapter 130A, Article 9, as amended. For the
purpose of this chapter, this term does not include composting facilities.
Land development administrative manual. An administrative manual which
specifies the procedures and application requirements necessary to ensure
compliance with the minimum ordinance standards established by City Council for
various land use and development activities. The Manual is incorporated herein
by reference.
Land use intensity (LUI). See Article K.
Laundries; commercial. Establishments engaged in the dry cleaning or power
machine washing of bed linens, table covers, hand towels, uniforms, diapers,
furs or other personal use items on a contract or fee basis.
Laundries; industrial. Establishments engaged in the dry cleaning or power
machine washing of rugs, mats, carpets, upholstery, drapery or other
nonpersonal use items on a contract or fee basis.
Legislative decision. The adoption, amendment, or repeal of a regulation under
this ordinance and others authorized by G.S. Chapter 160D.
Legislative hearing. A hearing to solicit public comment on a proposed
legislative decision.
Lot. A parcel of land or a division or combination of a parcel or parcels of
land either existing on the effective date of this chapter as provided by
section
9-4-15 or as created by and in accordance with applicable subdivision
regulations of the appropriate authority.
Lot coverage. The ground area of a lot which is encompassed by the exterior
foundation limits, including any supports, of a building or other covered or
enclosed structure. Parking areas, drives, exterior storage areas, stormwater
detention structures and the like shall not be included under this definition.
Lot depth. The horizontal distance between front and rear lot lines.
Lot, corner. A lot which has frontage on at least two intersecting streets,
provided that the interior angle of the intersection is less than 135 degrees.
Lot, double frontage. A lot which fronts on two parallel streets, or which
fronts upon two streets which do not intersect at the boundaries of the lot.
Lot, frontage. The distance between side lot lines measured along the street
right-of-way or easement.
Lot line. A line that marks the boundary of a lot.
Lot line, front. The common boundary line between a street right-of-way or
easement line and the lot line.
Lot width. The distance between side lot lines measured along the minimum
public or private street setback line unless otherwise provided.
Lot of record. A lot which is a part of a subdivision or plat which has been
recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of Pitt County, or a lot
described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been recorded in
the office of the Register of Deeds in accordance with the subdivision
regulations in effect at the time of recordation.
Live performance theater.  A facility for holding live performances, motion
pictures, plays, and live music through the sale of tickets and allows banquets
as an accessory use. Such use is limited in its location, size and operation in
accordance with the provisions of section
9-4-86(RR). (See also section
9-4-86).
Manual of Standard Designs and Details. The Manual of Standard Designs and
Details is a supplement to the subdivision regulations. Such supplement
contains engineering designs and details relative to plat layout; storm
drainage design; sedimentation control; basins; pipes and manholes; ending
walls and retaining walls; street standards; pavement design; ground cover;
driveways; parking; stormwater detention and other uniform design standards.
Manual for the Design and Construction of Water and Waste Water System
Extensions for Greenville Utilities Commission. The Manual for the Design and
Construction of Water and Waste Water System Extensions for Greenville
Utilities Commission is a supplement to the subdivision regulations. This
supplement contains design considerations, submittal requirements, material
specifications and project guidelines for water and sanitary sewer system
extensions.
Manufactured building. A structure consisting of one or more transportable
sections built and labeled within a manufacturing plant facility in accordance
with the appropriate state or federal construction code which governs the
structure’s intended usage when erected on a building site.
Manufacturing.  Establishments engaged in the mechanical or chemical
transformation of materials or substances into new products. These
establishments are usually described as plants, factories, or mills and
characteristically use power driven machines and materials handling equipment.
Establishments engaged in assembling component parts of manufactured products
are also considered manufacturing if the new product is neither a structure nor
other fixed improvement. Also included is the blending of materials such as
lubricating oils, plastics, resins or liquors.
      (1)   The materials processed by manufacturing establishments include
products of agriculture, forestry, fishing, mining and quarrying as well as
products of other manufacturing establishments. The new product of a
manufacturing establishment may be “finished” in the sense that it is ready for
utilization or consumption, or it may be “semifinished” to become a raw
material for an establishment engaged in further “manufacturing.”
      (2)   The materials used by manufacturing establishments may be purchased
directly from producers, obtained through customary trade channels, or secured
without recourse to the market by transferring the product from one
establishment to another which is under the same ownership. “Manufacturing”
production is usually carried on for the wholesale market, for interplant
transfer or to order for industrial users, rather than for direct sale to the
domestic consumer.
Massage parlors. An establishment wherein the manipulation of body muscle or
tissue is performed by rubbing, stroking, kneading or tapping by hand or
mechanical device and as further defined and regulated pursuant to
Title 11, Chapter 10, Article B of the City Code.
Master Planned Community (MPC). See Article J.
Mental health, emotional or physical rehabilitation center.
      (1)   An establishment qualified for a license by the State of North
Carolina which provides resident services to more than 25 persons who reside at
the establishment and who are physically disabled, mentally retarded,
developmentally disabled, persons recuperating from alcohol or drug related
problems and persons recuperating from mental or emotional illness, but not
including mentally ill persons who are dangerous to others. State licensed
family care homes and group care facilities are not included under this
definition.
      (2)   “Dangerous to others” means that within the recent past, the
individual has inflicted or attempted to inflict or threatened to inflict
serious bodily harm on another, or has acted in such a way as to create a
substantial risk of serious bodily harm to another, or has engaged in extreme
destruction of property; and that there is a reasonable probability that his
conduct will be repeated. Previous episodes of dangerousness to others, when
applicable, may be considered when determining reasonable probability of future
dangerous conduct. Professionals or paraprofessionals providing assistance to
the occupants shall be allowed in addition to the maximum occupancy.
(Ord. No. 09-75, § 1, passed 9-10-2009)
Mental health, emotional or physical rehabilitation day program facility.
      (1)   An establishment qualified for a license by the State of North
Carolina which provides a day treatment, day activity or other extended
counseling service to persons who do not reside at the establishment and who
are physically disabled, mentally retarded, developmentally disabled, persons
recuperating from alcohol or drug related problems, persons adjusting to
society as an alternative to imprisonment, children or adolescents who are
emotionally disturbed and need special educational services, and persons
recuperating from mental or emotional illness, but not including mentally ill
persons who are dangerous to others. Persons receiving service at the
establishment may be at the facility for no longer than 18 hours within any 24-
hour period.
      (2)   “Dangerous to others” means that within the recent past, the
individual has inflicted or attempted to inflict or threatened to inflict
serious bodily harm on another, or has acted in such a way as to create a
substantial risk of serious bodily harm to another, or has engaged in extreme
destruction of property; and that there is a reasonable probability that his
conduct will be repeated. Previous episodes of dangerousness to others, when
applicable, may be considered when determining reasonable probability of future
dangerous conduct. Professionals or paraprofessionals providing assistance to
the occupants shall be allowed in addition to the maximum occupancy.
(Ord. No. 09-75, § 1, passed 9-10-2009)
Microblading. A personal service in which one or more licensed provider(s)
places pigment into the skin by the aid of needles or any other instrument used
to puncture the skin, for cosmetic enhancement or cosmetic restoration.
Permanent makeup, microstroking, and micropigmentation are terms sometimes used
to describe microblading.
Microbrewery. A facility for the brewing of malt beverages that is limited in
its location, size and operation in accordance with the provisions of section
9-4-86.QQ. (See also section 9-4-86.QQ).
Microdistillery. A facility for the distillation of spirituous liquors that is
limited in its location, size and operation in accordance with the provisions
of section 9-4-86(UU) (See also section 9-4-86(UU)).
(Ord. No. 20-064, § 1, passed 11-16-2020)
Mining. The extraction of minerals occurring naturally: solids, such as coal
and ores; liquids, such as crude petroleum; and gases, such as natural gas. The
term “mining” is also used in the broad sense to include quarrying, well
operation, milling (crushing, screening, washing, flotation and the like), and
other preparation customarily done at the mine site or as a part of mining
activity.
Mobile home. A manufactured building designed to be used as a single-family
dwelling unit which has been constructed and labeled indicating compliance with
the HUD-administered National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety
Standards Act of 1974.
Mobile home park; conforming. See Article H.
Mobile home park; nonconforming. A parcel of land containing two or more mobile
home dwelling units where the placement or improvements do not conform to the
minimum requirements of this chapter.
Mobile home site or lot. A parcel of land in a mobile home park designed to
accommodate one mobile home and its accessory building or uses for the
exclusive use of the occupants.
Mobile home stand. That area of a mobile home site or lot which has been
reserved for the placement of a mobile home.
Modular building. A manufactured building constructed in accordance with the
North Carolina State Building Code.
Modular building (nonresidential and multi-family). A manufactured building
designed to be used as a multi-family dwelling (three or more units) or as a
nonresidential structure which has been constructed and labeled indicating
compliance with the North Carolina State Building Code.
Modular component. Any sub-system, sub-assembly, or other system designed for
use in or as part of a structure, which may include structural, electrical,
mechanical, plumbing and fire protection systems and other systems affecting
health and safety and is usually of closed construction.
Modular data processing facility. A building, dedicated space within a
building, or group of modular structures used to house a large group of
computer systems and associated components, such as telecommunications and data
processing systems, to be used for the remote storage, processing, or
distribution of large amounts of data. Such facilities may also include air
handlers, power generators, water cooling and storage facilities, utility
substations, and other associated utility infrastructure to support operations.
This definition shall not apply to data processing centers or where such
facilities are accessory or incidental to another primary use.
(Ord. No. 24-030, § 1, passed 5-9-2024)
Modular home. A manufactured building designed to be used as a detached single-
family dwelling or two-family attached dwelling (duplex) which has been
constructed and labeled indicating compliance with the North Carolina State
Building Code, as amended.
Multi-purpose center. A facility owned and operated, by a governmental unit
and/or private association holding a certificate of nonprofit organization from
the Secretary of State, for the purpose of providing community support
activities including health screening (excluding treatment), library and museum
extensions, adult education, child and adult day care, cooking and dining
facilities, recreation and crafts, social and civic meeting rooms, and other
closely related community support activities which are found to be compatible
with surrounding and area properties.
      (1)   Due to the general/multiple use nature of the facility each and
every activity, including the method and extent of operation, proposed for
inclusion at each separate location shall be specifically considered by the
Board of Adjustment. Activities not specifically approved by the Board of
Adjustment shall be prohibited.
      (2)   Specifically prohibited under this definition are: Shelters for
homeless or abused, family care facilities, group care facilities, college and
other institutions of higher learning, business or trade schools, vocational
rehabilitation center, auditorium, theater, and commercial activities including
but not limited to retail sales.
Municipal government building or use. Any building, structure or use of the
City of Greenville or its various subparts. This term shall include fire
stations, police stations, municipal offices, libraries, recreation facilities
and parks, civic centers or auditoriums. Uses not listed above shall only be
allowed in accordance with the table of permitted and special uses for the
particular district. Where municipally operated facilities to be used for
athletic events and/or night programs are to be located in residential areas, a
legislative hearing shall be properly advertised and conducted before City
Council for the purpose of hearing and considering any comments by the public
as to the location under consideration.
Noncommercial park or recreational facility. An accessory use recreation area
and related improvements commonly associated with a residential subdivision or
development which has been reserved for the private use of members of a common
property owners and/or tenants association and their guests. Such use may
include clubhouse facilities, swimming pools, ball courts and/or fields, play
lots and equipment, walking or fitness trails, picnic shelters and/or tables
and the like. All such facilities shall be owned and operated by the aforesaid
association on a not-for-profit basis, provided however, dues or other fees may
be collected for maintenance and related expenses from the membership and/or
their guests.
Nonconformity. Any dimensional, area, use or other situation, which does not
comply with the requirements, standards or conditions set forth by the Zoning
Ordinance, whether existing on the effective date of this chapter or following
any amendment thereto.
Nonprofit; use. Any use holding a certificate of nonprofit organization from
the Secretary of State for social, literary, political, civic, religious,
fraternal, recreational or charitable purposes, which is not operated for
profit or to render a service which is customarily conducted as a business.
Nursing, convalescent or maternity home; major care facility. A health care
establishment licensed by the state for care, supervision and provision of
resident services to seven or more individuals on a temporary or permanent
basis. The establishment may contain the following onsite activities and/or
facilities for the exclusive use of resident occupants: health care; food
preparation and eating; recreation and exercise; counseling, social work and
education; and living quarters for resident manager(s). Maximum occupancy shall
be regulated by the North Carolina State Building Code and/or applicable
license. The following uses shall not be considered under this definition:
family care home; group care facility; retirement center; and shelter for
homeless or abused.
Nursing, convalescent or maternity home; minor care facility. A health care
establishment licensed by the state for care, supervision and provision of
resident services to six or fewer individuals on a temporary or permanent
basis. The establishment may contain the following on-site activities and/or
facilities for the exclusive use of resident occupants: health care; food
preparation and eating; recreation and exercise; counseling, social work and
education; and living quarters for resident manager(s). Maximum occupancy shall
be regulated by the North Carolina State Building Code and/or applicable
license; provided, however, not more than eight persons, including both
resident individuals receiving care and any resident manager(s), shall occupy
any “minor care facility.” The following uses shall not be considered under
this definition: family care home; group care facility; retirement center; and
shelter for homeless or abused.
On-site manager. A person principally in charge of a Bar 2022 when the permit
holder of the establishment is not on-site and who is listed with and approved
by the City as an on-site manager.
Open space. The natural, vegetated or landscaped portions of a lot. Open
drainage ditches, ponds and the like may count toward any “open space”
requirement. Except as specifically provided, portions of a lot covered by
buildings, structures, parking areas, drives, exterior storage areas, swimming
pools, ball courts, decks, patios, porches and the like shall not be construed
as “open space.”
Operation/processing center. An office facility engaged in providing operation
and data processing services to other remote office, commercial or industrial
uses including parent, subsidiary or independent operations. Activities may
consist of providing specialized services such as bank transaction and coupon
processing or making data processing equipment available to others. All other
principal and/or accessory use activities, including but not limited to
professional/business/ medical offices, retail/wholesale sales, manufacturing,
storage, warehousing and the like, conducted in conjunction with any
“operation/processing center” shall be subject to independent approval in
accordance with district regulations.
Pawnbroker. Any person who loans money on the security of personal property
pledged in his or her keeping.
Pet grooming facility. Any premises containing four or more domesticated
animals, which are five months or older, where these domestic animals are
dropped off and picked up for temporary care on site related to grooming.
Grooming activities include both the hygienic care and cleaning of a dog, as
well as a process by which a dog's physical appearance is enhanced for showing
or other types of competition.
Pet shop. An establishment which sells domesticated animals to be kept for
pleasure rather than for utility. “Pet shops” are completely enclosed
operations which utilize outside storage of animals only pursuant to further
approval under the animal boarding; outside facility definition contained
herein.
Planned center. A development which meets any of the following conditions:
   (1)   A lot of record held in singular or joint ownership which contains two
or more principal uses;
   (2)   Any two or more units held pursuant to the North Carolina Condominium
Act;
   (3)   Any two or more lots which have been platted pursuant to the
subdivision regulations as a townhouse division. For purposes of this section,
the term “townhouse division” shall constitute the division of land containing
attached units within one or several structures and may include the reservation
of common area and which are restricted to internal access through the original
lot, common area(s) or easements; or
   (4)   A development platted pursuant to the subdivision regulations
involving any outparcel which is dependent on the original development tract or
other outparcel for compliance under Article G and/or Article P contained
herein. Mutually dependent lots or outparcels shall be construed as a “planned
center.”
Planned unit development (PUD). See Article J.
Planning and Zoning Commission. The body created by City Council in section
9-2-1 of the City Code, pursuant to G.S. 160D-301 and 160D-604, to act as a
planning agency for the City Council on planning and zoning matters within the
city’s planning and zoning jurisdiction.
Portable temporary storage unit. Any temporary and portable accessory use
container, trailer, cart, sled or other portable structure that exceeds ten
square feet in floor surface storage area, that is owned, leased or rented for
the purpose of temporary storage and/or transport of personal property, items
and materials and which is located on any lot, other than the unit owner’s
commercial storage lot or facility, for more than 336 continuous hours. This
definition shall include motorized and nonmotorized units, enclosed and
unenclosed units, and wheeled and non-wheeled units. Exempt from this
definition are licensed motor vehicles and trailers customarily associated with
the on-site principal use and approved garbage and waste containers located on
nonresidential or multi-family sites.
Porch. An attached, open, unenclosed (including screening and the like) roofed
entrance to a building, including necessary supports.
Premises. A fixed permanent establishment, including all areas inside or
outside extensions, including but not limited to decks, porches, patios, the
establishment, where the permit holder has control through a lease, deed, or
other legal process, including areas related to the fixed permanent
establishment that are in close proximity. Premises larger than the allowable
square footage under Bar 2022 must be appropriately separated to meet the
allowable square footage and meet all applicable building code requirements,
including future amendments, and independent of other available space within
the same premises that exceeds the 3,500 square feet requirement.
Principal use. The primary purpose for which a building structure or lot is
designed, arranged or intended and for which it is or may be used under these
regulations.
Public nuisance violation. Violations that do not present an immediate or
imminent danger to the general public but relate to quality of life issues.
Public nuisance violations can cause a hearing for a modification or revocation
to be requested by PDS if at least four violations resulting in the issuance of
a violation occur within a six-month period.
Public safety violation. Violations that are related to the sole or principal
purpose to protect the health, safety and welfare of patrons or employees of an
establishment and the general public. These violations are split into two
classes: major and/or minor.
   (1)   Major violations are of such an egregious nature that it warrants
immediate action. Major violations can cause a hearing for modification or
revocation of a special use permit to be requested by PDS if at least two
violations resulting in the issuance of a violation occur within a six-month
period. This shall not limit the ability of PDS to request a hearing for a
modification or revocation for a single egregious violation.
   (2)   Minor violations do not warrant immediate action. Minor violations can
cause a hearing for modification or revocation of a special use permit to be
requested by PDS if at least four violations resulting in the issuance of a
violation occur within a six-month period.
Public utility building or use. Any above-ground building or use necessary for
the delivery of electric, water, sanitary sewer, storm drainage, gas,
telephone, cable TV or other utility service system which meets any one of the
following conditions. Distributed Antenna Systems (DAS) and supporting DAS
equipment are not considered a public utility or use.
   (1)   Utilizes structures in excess of 100 total square feet;
   (2)   Utilizes any structure in excess of 15 feet in height;
   (3)   Requires any on-site permanent maintenance or service attendant;
   (4)   Requires or utilizes three or more parking spaces; and
   (5)   Creates noise, smoke, dust, odor, glare or any other condition which
may have an adverse impact on area properties or uses.
Quasi-judicial decision. A decision involving the findings of fact regarding a
specific application of this ordinance and requiring the exercise of discretion
when applying the standards of this ordinance. Quasi-judicial decisions
include, but are not limited to, decisions involving variances, special use
permits, certificates of appropriateness, and appeals of administrative
decisions.
Recreational vehicle or travel trailer (camper). Any vehicle equipped with some
or all facilities normally found in a dwelling unit and designed to serve
temporarily as a substitute dwelling for short periods of time.
Repair; major. The following activities shall be considered “major repair:”
      (1)   Engine overhaul or dismantling of subparts;
      (2)   Body or frame repair;
      (3)   Windshield or glass replacement;
      (4)   Transmission, starter, alternator or other subpart rework service;
      (5)   Welding or metal cutting; and
      (6)   Any other repair other than minor repair.
Repair; minor. The following activities shall be considered “minor repair:”
      (1)   Engine tune-up; changing of plugs, filters, oil, lubricants, belts,
adjustments;
      (2)   Change and rotate tires;
      (3)   Brake services;
      (4)   Electrical system services;
      (5)   Radiator services;
      (6)   Muffler services; and
      (7)   Battery service.
Research and development facility. An establishment which conducts research,
development, or controlled production of high-technology electronic,
industrial, or scientific products or commodities for sale or laboratories
conducting educational or medical research or testing. This term includes but
is not limited to a biotechnology firm or a manufacturer of nontoxic computer
components.
(Ord. 20-020, § 1, passed 5-18-2020)
Residential cluster development (RCD). See Article M.
Residential use. The use of land and buildings for domestic occupancy within
dwelling units, including single-family, two-family attached, multi-family,
boarding house, rooming house, family care home and land use intensity (rating
50) development, by the persons authorized to occupy the units. Uses not listed
above shall be considered as nonresidential uses for purposes of Article D,
Part 3.
Restaurant, conventional. A facility that prepares and sells food and drink
that has alcoholic beverage sales less than 70% of the business’s monthly sales
and which meets all of the following:
      (1)   Provides sit down dining area(s);
      (2)   Provides table cleaning and clearing (busboy) services;
      (3)   Provides attendant (waiter/waitress) food delivery services, unless
over the counter service is provided in accordance with subsection (5) below;
      (4)   May offer carry-out and/or off-site delivery services, provided the
food service is an accessory activity;
      (5)   May exhibit one but not both of the following operational functions
or characteristics:
         (a)   Drive-through service; or
         (b)   Over the counter service. For purposes of this section, the term
"over the counter service" shall include both customer ordering and the receipt
of food, excepting beverages, condiments, utensils and the like, from an order/
delivery station or counter remote to the on-site place of consumption.
      (6)   May have a full service bar, live or recorded amplified music,
floor show and dancing area which is open to the restaurant patrons and general
public.
      (7)   Shall have a kitchen and an inside dining area with seating for at
least ten people. It is not necessary for an establishment to maintain kitchen
operations at all times it is open to the public to qualify as a restaurant.
(Ord. No. 24-060, § 1, passed 11-14-2024)
Restaurant, fast food.
      (1)   An eating establishment open to the general public of which the
principal use is food services, including food ordering, food preparation and
on-premises food consumption, and which meets all of the following:
         (a)   Does not require a membership, cover or minimum charge for
admittance or service during regular or special periods of operation;
         (b)   Has sales of prepared and/or packaged foods, in a ready-to-
consume state, in excess of 50% of the total gross receipts for the
establishment during any month.
            1.   In determining the portion of sales that can be attributed to
the sale of prepared and/or packaged food in a ready-to-consume state, the
following sales shall be included: food prepared in the establishment’s kitchen
and served as a meal to be consumed on the premises or as a take-out order;
packaged food sold to accompany the meal; and non-alcoholic beverages sold to
accompany the meal.
            2.   The following shall not be included in the portion of sales
that can be attributed to the sales of prepared and/or packaged food in a
ready-to-consume state: mixed alcoholic beverages, including the mixer; any
other alcoholic beverage; grocery items not ordered and purchased with meals;
and any other product, item, entertainment, service, or gratuity which is not
specified in this subsection (b) as a sale to be included in the portion of
sales that can be attributed to the sales of prepared and/or packaged food in a
ready-to-consume state.
            3.   For purposes of determining compliance under this subsection
(b), the Zoning Enforcement Officer may utilize and rely upon any routine or
special audit report prepared by a department, division of a department, or
agency of the State of North Carolina.
         (c)   Does not qualify as a conventional restaurant by definition; and
         (d)   May have as an ancillary or accessory use a full service bar,
live or recorded amplified music, floor show, and dancing area which is open to
the restaurant patrons and general public and is limited to the hours of
operation of the principal use restaurant.
      (2)   The following is not considered a “restaurant, fast food” under
this definition.
         (a)   Ancillary or accessory food service for a permitted principal
use where the food service is open to the general public such as an employee
and/or patron cafeteria or eating area;
         (b)   Temporary food service as part of permitted temporary uses such
as carnivals, fairs, street fairs, circuses, athletic events, community events,
concerts, nonprofit fund raising events, emergency shelters and the like; or
         (c)   Any establishment where the preparation of food is merely
incidental to the sale of food such as a grocery store or food market and the
like.
(Ord. No. 09-27, § 4, passed 4-9-2009)
Restaurant and/or dining and entertainment establishment; outdoor activities. 
      (1)   A principal and/or accessory use associated with or utilized in
conjunction with a conventional or fast food restaurant or a dining and
entertainment establishment which is intended for the temporary or permanent
conduct of activities relative to the sale, transfer or enjoyment of products
and/or services to persons located on the business premises and which is open
and unenclosed on one or more sides or which is without a complete roof
structure. For purposes of this section, all areas not constituting
“mechanically conditioned area” as determined by the Building Inspector shall
be considered open and unenclosed. Additionally, fences and/or wire or plastic
mesh screens shall be considered open and unenclosed for purposes of this
section.
      (2)   Use of any amplified outdoor audio sound system including loud
speakers, audio speakers or other electronic or mechanical sound transmission
devices shall be considered as an “outdoor activity” for purposes of this
definition.
(Ord. No. 09-27, § 5, passed 4-9-2009)
Restaurant and/or dining and entertainment establishment; regulated outdoor
activities. Any restaurant and/or dining and entertainment establishment;
outdoor activity, as defined herein, which is located within 300 feet, as
measured to the closest point, of any residential district, excepting CDF,
which allows single-family dwellings as a permitted use.
(Ord. No. 09-27, § 6, passed 4-9-2009)
Retail sales. Establishments engaged in selling merchandise for personal or
household consumption, and rendering services incidental to the sale of goods.
Establishments are classified by kind of business according to the principal
lines of commodities sold (apparel), or the usual trade designation (shoe
store). Characteristics of retail trade establishment are: the establishment is
usually a place of business and is engaged in activities to attract the general
public to buy; the establishment buys or receives merchandise as well as sells;
the establishment may process its products, but the processing is incidental or
subordinate to selling; the establishment is considered as retail in the trade;
and the establishment sells to customers for personal or household use.
Retail sales; incidental. Retail sales accessory and incidental to the
permitted nonresidential principal use including sales of: manufactured
products; goods distributed at wholesale; repair and/or replacement parts;
products and/or goods resulting from, utilized in and related to commercial,
medical, professional or personal services and recreational activities. Such
“incidental retail sales” shall meet all of the following requirements:
      (1)   Shall be an accessory use to the principal use;
      (2)   Shall be housed completely within the principal or related
accessory structure;
      (3)   Shall not occupy more than 10% of the floor area of the principal
or related accessory structure;
      (4)   Shall not constitute more than 20% of the gross income produced by
the associated principal use during any month; and
      (5)   Neither the activity itself nor any advertising display shall be
visible beyond the premises.
Retirement center. A facility which provides housing, meals, recreational and
educational activities, and medical care for retired people. This term shall
include the following uses within a retirement facility: dwelling units in
accordance with district standards, nursing facilities or infirmaries, food
preparation and services for the occupants, administrative offices,
recreational facilities, and assembly halls.
Room renting. Accessory residential occupancy within an owner-occupied dwelling
unit wherein space is let, by the resident owner, to persons who are not
related to the resident family by blood, adoption or marriage; provided that
the total dwelling unit occupancy shall be limited to not more than two persons
in addition to the resident owner and persons related to the resident owner by
blood, adoption or marriage who constitute a family. For purposes of this
definition, the term “family” and the term “persons related by blood, adoption,
or marriage” shall be as defined in the definition of family contained in this
section.
Satellite dish antennae. A structure capable of receiving communications from a
transmitter relay located in planetary orbit.
School. A use of land or buildings for academic instruction authorized and
administered by the Pitt County School System or other comparable private
schools.
School; small, private. A private educational institution providing full time
instruction and including accessory facilities traditionally associated with a
program of study, which meets the requirements of the laws of the state, that
has no more than 500 students.
(Ord. No. 20-052, § 1, passed 9-14-2020)
Section. Those sections found within this chapter,
Title 9, Chapter 4 , Zoning Ordinance, for Greenville, North Carolina unless
otherwise referenced.
Service; general. A useful labor that does not produce a commodity.
Service; personal. Labor of a physical, communicative, individualized or
domestic nature that directly benefits an individual.
Service; professional. Labor of a technical, clerical, administrative or
artistic nature that directly benefits an individual or a commercial,
institutional or industrial operation.
Setback lines. The lines which parallel any public street right-of-way, private
street easement, side and rear property line or peripheral boundary line which
delineates the area of a lot upon which a building may be constructed or
expanded.
Shelter, fallout. An accessory structure or portion of a structure that
provides protection to human life during periods of danger, including nuclear
fallout, air raids, storms or other emergencies.
Shelter for homeless or abused. An establishment operated by a governmental or
nonprofit organization intended to be used solely for temporary occupancy by
homeless or abused persons.
Signs. See Article N of this chapter.
Soil erosion and sedimentation control ordinance terms and definitions. See
Title 9, Chapter 8 of the City Code.
Solar collector, accessory. A device or structure for which the primary purpose
is to convert solar radiant energy into another source for direct power
consumption and interconnection with the power grid to offset energy
consumption of a principal use. The device may be roof-mounted or ground-
mounted as an accessory use.
Solar energy facility. A solar collection system that generates electricity
from sunlight to a wholesale electricity market through a regional transmission
organization and an inter-connection with the local utility power grid and/or
for direct distribution to more than one property or consumer as a commercial
venture located on a parcel containing a minimum of 30 acres. Solar energy
facilities shall consist of a minimum of three individual photovoltaic modules
(solar panels), which are an assembly of solar cells to generate electricity.
Solar facilities constructed only for the production of electricity dedicated
to another facility co-located the same site, or a solar facility which is
clearly a subordinate accessory land use, shall not be subject to the special
use permit requirements.
Special use. A use of land, buildings or structures that requires special and
individual control over number, area, location, design, methods of operation,
and relationship to surrounding uses in order to promote the public health,
safety and general welfare.
Special use permit. A permit issued to authorize development or land uses in a
particular zoning district upon presentation of competent, material, and
substantial evidence establishing compliance with one or more general standards
requiring that judgment and discretion be exercised as well as compliance with
specific standards, (see G.S.160D-102).
Sports ramp. Any elevated outdoor use, facility or structure which is designed
and/or utilized for principal or accessory recreational purposes or activities,
including bike ramps, skateboard ramps or any other ramp, tract or slide
designed for use by fixed or free-motion vehicle(s), device(s) or apparatus.
For the purpose of this definition the terms “vehicle(s), device(s) or
apparatus” shall include all motorized, self-propelled, manual or gravity-
assisted conveyances. For the purpose of this definition the term “sports ramp”
shall include facilities or structures constructed from building materials,
pre-fabricated or specialized kits or compacted earth mounds.
Stable. A building or structure designed or used for maintaining livestock or
horses or for the storage of manure or soil fertilizer.
Stockyard or livestock sales pavilion. A place, establishment or facility
consisting of pens or other enclosures, and their appurtenances, in which live
cattle, sheep, swine, horses, mules, goats or fowl are received, held or kept
for sale or shipment in commerce. The terms “stockyard” and “livestock sales
pavilion” as used in this article shall not be interpreted to mean a place,
establishment, facility or farm where livestock is reared by an individual
producer such as a farmer, dairy farmer or livestock breeder for agricultural
purposes.
Storm drainage ordinance terms and definitions. 
See Title 9, Chapter 9 of the City Code.
Story. That portion of a building between the upper surface of a floor and
upper surface of the floor or roof next above. Attic space which is arranged,
built, finished or intended for business occupancy or habitation shall be
considered as a floor for purposes of this definition. Where no floors exist
(e.g., water towers, observation towers, grandstands, stadiums, belfries), each
12 feet of height shall constitute one story.
Streets. Those areas delineated by dedicated rights-of-way or common property
easements upon which improvements have been made for use by and open to the
public.
Streets; public. Streets that have been accepted for permanent maintenance by
either the State of North Carolina or the City of Greenville.
Streets; private. Streets that have been designated by easement and as such
constitute public vehicular areas as provided and regulated by applicable law.
Such streets shall be constructed in accordance with the standards specified in
the Manual of Standard Designs and Details and shall be maintained by the
property owner or pursuant to recorded agreements. No new private streets are
allowed for single-family and two-family attached dwellings located on
individual lots or on a common lot after August 14, 2014.
Subdivision. The division of a parcel or tract of land in accordance with the
subdivision regulations, and as prescribed under G.S.160D-802.
Subdivision regulations. See
Title 9, Chapter 5, Subdivisions of the City Code.
Tattooing. A personal service in which one or more licensed provider(s) places
pigment into the skin by the aid of needles or any other instrument used to
puncture the skin, for decorative adornment or artistic purposes.
Temporary use. Any use intended for temporary and limited duration, operated as
an accessory or principal use. Except as further provided under Article F,
section
9-4-103, the maximum frequency of the temporary use shall not exceed five
separate occurrences within any 12-month period and the maximum duration of the
temporary use shall not exceed 60 days within any 12-month period. For purposes
of this definition the duration of each separate occurrence shall be measured
in continuous days. The use shall be subject to applicable location, setback,
parking, land use and other standards for the district. Included in this
definition are transient merchants, itinerant merchants and vendors, farm
produce sales, Christmas tree sales, seafood sales, auto sales, furniture sales
and the like, as well as social, religious, political or similar participatory
activities. Temporary uses shall be exempt from the vegetation and parking lot
surface improvement standards; provided, however, where the Director of
Planning and Development Services due to extended duration or frequency of
operation finds that the use or reuse no longer qualifies under this
definition, all applicable standards and requirements shall apply. No permanent
building shall be located on any lot for the exclusive purpose of operating any
temporary use.
Temporary sand mining. The extraction by excavation of naturally occurring
materials, such as sands and dirt ("borrow materials"), from a specifically
designated and limited geographical area (which shall be identified by one or
more specifically delineated property parcels) ("borrow site"), to be used in
conjunction with a specifically designated government highway construction
project, and which shall be for a specifically designated and limited duration
in time that coincides with the completion of the government project. (See also
section 9-4-86).
Tobacco Shop (Class 1). An establishment that, as a substantial portion of the
use, entails the retail sales of tobacco products including, but not limited
to, cigarettes, cigars, chewing tobacco, shisha, unformed or loose tobacco,
and/or similar products. For the purpose of this definition, a substantial
portion of the use is established if:
      (1)   At least 20% of the establishment’s floor area open and accessible
to customers is used for the display and/or stocking of tobacco products as
provided herein; or
      (2)   At least 40% of the sign area of the establishment’s on-site
signage that is visible from public rights-of-way advertises tobacco products
as provided herein.
Tobacco Shop (Class 2). An establishment that entails the retail sales of any
of the following tobacco smoking apparatus: water pipes; hookah pipes; bowls;
water bongs; or similar products.
Townhouse type development. The division of land containing attached units
within one or several structures and may include the reservation of common area
and which may be restricted to internal access through the original lot, common
area(s) or shared easements.
Toxic substance. Any substance or combination of substances (including disease
causing agents), which after discharge and upon exposure, ingestion, inhalation
or assimilation into any organism, either directly from the environment or
indirectly by ingestion through food chains, has the potential to cause death,
disease, behavioral abnormalities, cancer, genetic mutations, physiological
malfunctions (including malfunctions or suppression in reproduction or growth)
or physical deformities in such organisms or their offspring or other adverse
health effects. See also definition of hazardous material.
Trade or business organization. A noncommercial association of employees,
owners, participants and/or representatives of a common commercial or
industrial interest which provides occupational support services to the various
membership. Activities of the use shall not produce a commodity or provide any
service to interests outside the organization.
Use. Any purpose for which land, buildings or structures are designed,
arranged, intended, occupied or maintained; or any activity, conducted or
intended to be conducted, in a building, structure or on a tract of land.
Variance. A relaxation of a specific provision of these regulations granted by
the Board of Adjustment.
Vertical mixed-use development. A development that includes two or more
principal uses, such as commercial, office, civic, hotel, and residential uses;
and fosters integration, density, and compatibility of uses within a multi-
story single building. Parking in excess of the required parking standards of a
vertically mixed-use development shall not be considered a principal use that
would qualify a project as a vertical mixed-use development.
(Ord. No. 24-052, § 1, passed 9-12-2024)
Vested right. A right to undertake and complete the development and use of
property under the terms and conditions of an approval secured as specified in
G.S. 160D-108 or under common law.
Vesting plan, site specific. A plan that has been submitted to the city in
which the applicant requests vesting pursuant to G.S. 160D-108.1 which plan
describes with reasonable certainty the type and intensity of use for a
specific parcel or parcels of property, and which establishes vested rights for
a specific period of time, in accordance with applicable North Carolina General
Statutes. Such plan may be in the form of, but not limited to, any of the
following plans or approvals: a subdivision plat a preliminary or general
development plan, a special use permit, or any other land-use approval
designation as may be utilized by the city.
Violation. An occurrence on the premises for which a special use permit is held
that leads to the issuance including but not limited to any of the following:
notice of violation, citation, arrest, other complaint and order or legal
process.
Water dependent structure. Any structure for which the use requires access to
or proximity to or siting within surface waters to fulfill its basic purpose,
such as boat ramps, boat houses, docks and bulkheads. Ancillary facilities such
as restaurants, outlets for boat supplies, parking lots and commercial boat
storage areas are not “water dependent structures.”
Watershed. The entire land area contributing surface drainage to a specific
point (e.g., the water supply intake).
Water supply watershed; critical and protected areas. See Article L.
Wayside market. A temporary shelter, stand or location maintained and operated
for the purpose of point of production retail sales of raw vegetables.
Vegetables produced at a remote location shall not be offered for sale at any
wayside market. The use may be operated on a continuous or intermittent basis
during the growing and harvest season of the vegetables being offered for sale.
Wellness center. A facility designed to promote health awareness and
maintenance through a variety of programs and services tailored to a range of
individual needs, including but not limited to physical fitness and nutrition
education. The programs shall be coordinated by a physician consultant, who
shall oversee the content and conduct of each program.
Wholesale trade. Establishments or places of business primarily engaged in
selling merchandise to retailers; to industrial, commercial, institutional,
farm or professional business users; or to other wholesalers; or acting as
agents or brokers in buying merchandise for or selling merchandise to the
persons or companies. In addition to selling, wholesale establishments may
maintain inventories of goods (warehouse), physically assemble, sort and grade
goods, deliver goods and refrigerate goods.
Wine and beer store. An establishment conducted pursuant to G.S. Chapter 18B as
amended, and operated as a principal or accessory use, which is authorized to
sell wine and/or malt beverages in the manufacturer's original container for
consumption off the premises, and the retail sale of malt beverages or
unfortified wine dispensed from a tap connected to a pressurized container
utilizing carbon dioxide or similar gas in a cleaned and sanitized container
that is filled or refilled and sealed for consumption off the premises and that
identifies the permittee and the date the container was filled or refilled,
provided however, the permittee may conduct and supervise, in compliance with
G.S. Chapter 18B, accessory and incidental wine and/or malt beverages tastings
on the premises. Permittee may also sell wine and/or malt beverages for on-
premises consumption, as an accessory and incidental use to the "wine and beer
store", provided the establishment and operation is compliant with G.S. Chapter
18B and City Code Section
9-4-86(SS). Among the two limited types of alcoholic beverages that may be
sold, a "wine and beer store" may sell wine exclusively, malt beverages
exclusively, or both wine and malt beverages provided that the "wine and beer
store" has the requisite state permit(s) that allows retail sales of wine and/
or malt beverages for consumption on the premises.
Wireless telecommunications facilities. See G.S. 160D-931.
Yard. A required open space unoccupied and unobstructed by any structure or
portion of a structure, from ground to sky, except as may be specifically
provided in these regulations.
Yard, front. A yard extending across the full length of a lot from side lot
line to side lot line and lying between the abutting street right-of-way or
easement line and the building line.
Yard, rear. A yard extending across the full length of a lot from side lot line
to side lot line and lying between the rear property line and the building
line.
Yard sale. A one- or two-day activity occurring at a residential dwelling no
more than two times in any given 12-month period where items which the
residents have no further use for are being resold to the general public. “Yard
sales” do not include items which were originally obtained to be resold to the
general public. “Yard sales” shall be considered an accessory use.
Yard, side. A yard extending from the side of a structure to the side lot line
and lying between the front corner and the rear corner of the structure.
Zoning enforcement officer. The person, officer or official or his or her
authorized representative, whom the City Council has designated as its agent
for the enforcement of the regulations contained within
Title 9, Chapter 4 , Zoning, of the Greenville City Code.
Zoning map; official. The official zoning map for the City of Greenville, North
Carolina.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 2355, § 1, passed 8-9-1991;
Ord. No. 2357, § 1, passed 8-8-1991; Ord. No. 2368, § 1, passed 9-12-1991; Ord.
No. 2383, § 1, passed 11-7-1991; Ord. No. 2384, § 1, passed 11-7-1991; Ord. No.
2389, § 1, passed 12-12-1991; Ord. No. 2390, § 1, passed 12-12-1991; Ord. No.
2434, § 1, passed 3-12-1992; Ord. No. 2435, § 1, passed 3-12-1992; Ord. No.
2436, § 1, passed 3-12-1992; Ord. No. 2451, § 1, passed 4-9-1992; Ord. No.
2468, § 1, passed 6-8-1992; Ord. No. 2488, § 1, passed 7-9-1992; Ord. No. 2489,
§ 1, passed 7-9-1992; Ord. No. 2544, § 1, passed 11-12-1992; Ord. No. 2640, §
3, passed 6-10-1993; Ord. No. 2725, § 4, passed 10-14-1993; Ord. No. 94-41, §
4, passed 3-10-1994; Ord. No. 94-133, § 1, passed 10-13-1994; Ord. No. 94-135,
§ 1, passed 10-13-1994; Ord. No. 95-51, § 1, passed 5-11-1995; Ord. No. 95-79,
§§ 1–3, passed 8-10-1995; Ord. No. 95-118, § 1, passed 11-9-1995; Ord. No. 96-
45, § 1, passed 6-13-1996; Ord. No. 96-80, § 3, passed 8-8-1996; Ord. No. 97-
37, §§ 1–3, passed 4-10-1997; Ord. No. 97-38, § 1, passed 4-10-1997; Ord. No.
97-81, § 1, passed 8-14-1997; Ord. No. 97-86, §§ 1, 2, passed 8-14-1997; Ord.
No. 97-93, §§ 1, 2, passed 9-11-1997; Ord. No. 98-143, § 1, passed 11-12-1998;
Ord. No. 99-75, § 1, passed 6-10-1999; Ord. No. 04-95, § 1, passed 8-12-2004;
Ord. No. 04-96, § 1, passed 8-12-2004; Ord. No. 04-122, § 1, passed 10-14-04;
Ord. No. 05-65, §§ 1–2, passed 6-9-2005; Ord. No. 05-88, §§ 1–2, passed 8-11-
2005; Ord. No. 05-89, § 1, passed 8-11-2005; Ord. No. 06-25, § 1, passed 3-9-
2006; Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006; Ord. No. 06-113, § 3, passed 11-9-
2006; Ord. No. 07-11, § 1, passed 1-11-2007; Ord. No. 08-04, § 3, passed 1-10-
2008; Ord. No. 09-27, §§ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, passed 4-9-2009; Ord. No. 09-75, §
1, passed 9-10-2009; Ord. No. 09-99, § 6, passed 3-4-2010; Ord. No. 10-106, §
1, passed 12-9-2010; Ord. No. 11-055, § 2, passed 9-8-2011; Ord. No. 12-040, §
1, passed 9-13-2012; Ord. No. 12-069, § 1, passed 12-13-2012; Ord. No. 13-007,
§ 1, passed 2-14-2013; Ord. No. 13-014, § 1, passed 4-11-2013; Ord. No. 14-048,
1, passed 8-14-2014; Ord. No. 14-049, § 3, passed 8-14-2014; Ord. No. 15-019, §
1, passed 4-9-2015; Ord. No. 15-020, § 1, passed 4-9-2015; Ord. No. 15-051, §
1, passed 9-10-2015; Ord. No. 15-059, § 1, passed 10-8-2015; Ord. No. 16-003, §
1, passed 1-14-2016; Ord. No. 16-066, §§ 1, 2, passed 12-8-2016; Ord. No. 19-
045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019; Ord. 19-051, § 1, passed 10-10-2019; Ord. No. 19-
052, § 1, passed 10-10-2019; Ord. No. 19-057, § 1, passed 12-12-2019; Ord. No.
20-020, § 1, passed 5-18-2020; Ord. No. 20-052, § 1, passed 9-14-2020; Ord. No.
20-059, § 1, passed 10-19-2020; Ord. No. 20-064, § 1, passed 11-16-2020; Ord.
No. 21-010, § 1, passed 2-15-2021; Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021; Ord.
No. 22-013, § 1, passed 1-24-2022; Ord. No. 22-014, § 1, passed 1-24-2022; Ord.
No. 23-012, §§ 1, 2, passed 1-12-2023; Ord. No. 23-013, §§ 1, 2, 3, 6, 8 passed
1-12-2023; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023; Ord. No. 23-061, §§ 1, 2,
passed 8–10-23; Ord. No. 24-030, § 1, passed 5-9-2024; Ord. No. 24-052, § 1,
passed 9-12-2024; Ord. No. 24-060, § 1, passed 11-14-2024)
ARTICLE C. NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS
SEC. 9-4-28 CONTINUATION OF NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS AND COMPLETING
NONCONFORMING PROJECTS.
   (A)   Unless specifically provided in these regulations and subject to the
restrictions and qualifications set forth in these regulations, nonconforming
situations that were otherwise lawful on the effective date of these
regulations may be continued.
   (B)   Nonconforming projects may be completed only in accordance with the
provisions of section
9-4-34.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-29 EXTENSION OR ENLARGEMENT OF NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS.
   (A)   Except as specifically provided in this section, the extent of the
nonconformity of a nonconforming situation shall not be increased. In
particular, the following activities shall be prohibited:
      (1)   Nonconforming uses. An increase in the total amount of space
devoted to a nonconforming use; extensions throughout any portion of a building
by a nonconforming use; and an increase in volume, intensity or frequency by a
nonconforming use.
      (2)   Other nonconforming situations. Greater nonconformity with respect
to dimensional restrictions, density requirements or other regulations such as
parking requirements; and enclosing a previously unenclosed area that does not
meet all applicable development standards.
   (B)   Subject to section
9-4-34, a nonconforming use of undeveloped land may not be extended to cover
more land than was occupied by that use when it became nonconforming, except
that a use that involves the removal of natural materials from the lot (e.g., a
sand mining operation) may be expanded to the boundaries of the lot where the
use was established at the time it became nonconforming if 10% or more of the
earth products had already been removed on the effective date of these
regulations.
   (C)   Within any zoning district, any mobile home used for single-family
residential purposes and maintained as a nonconforming use may be enlarged or
replaced with a mobile home of the same or larger size, provided that:
      (1)   The total number of dwelling units is not increased;
      (2)   The enlargement or replacement does not create additional
nonconformities or increase the extent of existing nonconformities with respect
to dimensional standards and/or parking requirements;
      (3)   Subject to subsection (C)(2) above, when a single mobile home on an
individual lot of record is located in a residential district, single-family
requirements for the controlling district shall apply;
      (4)   Subject to subsection (C)(2) above, when a single mobile home on an
individual lot of record is located in a nonresidential district, R-6MH
District requirements shall apply;
      (5)   Subject to subsection (C)(2) above, when two or more mobile homes
are located on a parcel of land in any zoning district, the provisions of
Article H of this chapter shall apply;
      (6)   Accessory buildings and structures shall be subject to the
requirements of the applicable district or article in accordance with this
section;
      (7)   Parking requirements shall apply in accordance with Article O of
this chapter; and/or
      (8)   This section shall be subject to the limitations stated in section
9-4-32.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 98-155, § 1, passed 12-10-1998)
   (D)   Within any residential zoning district, any dwelling structure used
for residential purposes and maintained as a nonconforming use, and any
accessory building or structure to the dwelling, shall be exempt from the
provisions of subsection (A)(1) above, provided that:
      (1)   The total number of dwelling units is not increased;
      (2)   The enlargement or addition does not create additional
nonconformities or increase the extent of existing nonconformities with respect
to dimensional standards and/or parking requirements;
      (3)   Subject to subsection (D)(2) above, when located within a single-
family district, multi-family dwelling structure(s) shall comply with Article I
of this chapter or single-family requirements for the controlling district,
whichever is greater; and/or
      (4)   Subject to subsection (D)(2) above, when located within a single-
family district, two-family attached (duplex) dwelling structures shall comply
with R-6A District standards or single-family requirements for the controlling
district, whichever is greater.
   (E)   Within the CD downtown commercial zoning district, a nonconforming use
that may be continued in accordance with the provisions of section
9-4-28 will be allowed to expand directly above the roof of existing areas
devoted to the same type of nonconforming use and shall not be subject to the
provisions of subsection (A)(1) above relating to said expansion, provided
that:
      (1)   The open air deck is directly above the nonconforming use and does
not have an intervening story between the existing nonconforming use and the
open air deck;
      (2)   The addition does not create additional nonconformities or increase
the extent of existing nonconformities with respect to dimensional standards,
setback requirements, height limits, and/or parking requirements;
      (3)   Improvements to the existing building are made so that it is in
full compliance with all current North Carolina Building Code requirements as a
result of the additional functional square footage and, as such, building
permit applicants may be required, as determined necessary by the building
inspector, to provide construction drawings that demonstrate compliance with
increased structural loads through a structural analysis prepared and sealed by
a professional engineer, occupant loads, egress loads including exterior stairs
and/or ramps used as a means of egress, plumbing facility loads, interior and
roof deck finish material information, sprinkler loads, fire alarm system and
additional specific requirements pertinent to the building as a result of the
addition;
      (4)   New and reconfigured stairways and landings constructed to serve
new open air decks upon a roof shall be allowed to be constructed within the
property lines of the nonconforming use, regardless whether they are within or
outside of a building’s exterior walls;
      (5)   It is permissible to reconstruct existing roofs to support open air
decks, regardless whether existing roofs enclose conditioned buildings or are
located above nonconditioned areas that are open on the side(s);
      (6)   Enclosed areas on open air roof decks shall be limited to
mechanical rooms, HVAC equipment, bathrooms and janitor closets;
      (7)   A special use permit is approved by the Board of Adjustment for the
addition; and
      (8)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the nonconforming use, including the
addition, remains as a nonconforming use in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. No. 98-155, § 2, passed 12-10-1998; Ord. 16-054, § 1, passed 9-8-2016)
SEC. 9-4-30 REPAIRS, MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   If a structure is located on a lot where a nonconforming situation
exists, then minor repairs and routine maintenance is permitted subject to the
provisions of these regulations.
   (B)   If a structure is located on a lot where a nonconforming situation
exists, the structure may be restored and occupancy or use allowed if that
structure is destroyed by fire, wind, flood or other natural disaster, provided
that the restoration and occupancy or use complies with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 2356, § 1, passed 8-8-1991)
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (B) above, a mobile home
located within the area of special flood hazard which has been damaged due to a
flood by at least 50% of its fair market value and which is located within a
mobile home park that has been substantially damaged shall not be permitted to
be repaired or replaced unless the density of the mobile home park is less than
or equal to the maximum density as set forth in section
9-4-132. Prior to repairing or replacing such a mobile home when the density of
the mobile home park is greater than the maximum density, all pads, utility
services, driveways and appurtenances available for the placement of mobile
homes in excess of the maximum density for the mobile home park shall be
removed. For the purpose of this subsection, a mobile home park has been
substantially damaged if greater than 50% of the mobile homes located within
the mobile home park have been damaged by at least 50% of their fair market
value as a result of a flood which occurred on or after September 15, 1999.
(Ord. No. 00-19, § 11, passed 2-10-2000)
SEC. 9-4-31 CHANGE IN USE OF PROPERTY WHERE A NONCONFORMING SITUATION EXISTS.
   (A)   A change of use where a nonconforming situation exists shall be
permitted only if the intended change is to a use that is permissible in the
district where the property is located.
   (B)   When a dimensional nonconformity occurs as a result of a change of
use, and the dimensional standard cannot be met, then the change of use shall
be permitted in accordance with subsection (A) above, except in the following
situations:
      (1)   The intended use requires additional lot size or lot width above
the minimums for the district where the property is located except in the case
of single-family dwellings in CDF Zoning Districts;
      (2)   Specific conversion standards are established for the intended use;
or
      (3)   Specific spacing requirements between uses are established for the
intended use.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-32 ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF A NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   A nonconforming use may be continued for an indefinite period, except
as provided herein, provided that if the use is discontinued for a period of
180 consecutive days, the use shall not be reestablished or changed to any
other use except to one that is permissible in the district where the property
is located.
   (B)   For purposes of determining whether a right to continue a
nonconforming use is lost pursuant to this section, all of the buildings,
activities and operations maintained on a lot are generally to be considered as
a whole. For example, the failure to rent one apartment in a nonconforming
apartment building for 180 days shall not result in a loss of the right to rent
that apartment or space thereafter so long as the apartment building as a whole
is continuously maintained. But if a nonconforming use is maintained in
conjunction with a conforming use, discontinuance of a nonconforming use for
the required period shall terminate the right to maintain it thereafter.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-33 NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   Any single nonconforming lot of record existing as of the effective
date of this chapter that has 80% or more of the minimum required lot area, lot
width and/or frontage for the district where the property is located, may be
used as a building site, subject to the following exceptions:
      (1)   The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to uses requiring
additional lot size above the minimums for the district where the property is
located, except in the case of single-family dwellings in CDF Zoning Districts;
      (2)   A two-family attached dwelling (duplex) may be built on a
nonconforming lot of record established as of the effective date of this
chapter in R-6, R-6A, R-6MH, CDF and MR Zoning Districts that has at least 80%
of the minimum required lot width and/or lot frontage required for the use.
However, a two-family attached dwelling (duplex) shall not be permitted to
locate on a nonconforming lot that is substandard due to inadequate lot area in
the above-mentioned zones; and
      (3)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the conversion or
new construction of a bed and breakfast inn approved pursuant to section
9-4-86(U)(4).
   (B)   Where there are two or more undeveloped adjoining nonconforming lots
in one ownership at any time on or after May 8, 1969, and the lots individually
are less than the minimum area and/or width required (pursuant to subsection
(A) above) for the district in which they are located, then the group of lots
shall be considered as a single lot or several lots of minimum permitted area
and width for the district in which located. This section shall apply to the
current owner of the adjoining undeveloped nonconforming lots and to any
successor(s) in interest of the lot(s).
   (C)   Prior to development of any building site resulting from the
combination of substandard lots under this section, a final plat of the
combination shall be approved and recorded in accordance with
Title 9, Chapter 5, Subdivisions, of the Greenville City Code.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 94-157, § 1, passed 12-8-1994;
Ord. No. 95-29, § 7, passed 3-9-1995; Ord. No. 97-85, §§ 1, 2, passed 8-14-
1997; Ord. No. 98-104, § 1, passed 8-13-1998; Ord. No. 05-89, § 9, passed 8-11-
2005)
SEC. 9-4-34 VESTED RIGHTS.
   (A)   The vested right is a right which is established pursuant to G.S.160D-
108 or 160D-108.1 to undertake and complete the development and use of property
under the terms and conditions of an approved development plan. When a building
permit has been validly issued for construction of a nonconforming project the
expiration provisions of G.S. 160D-403(f) shall apply, the project shall be
permitted to develop in accordance with the terms of that permit provided the
building permit remains unrevoked and unexpired.
   (B)   Obtaining site development plan approval or preliminary plat
subdivision approval in accordance with Title 9, Chapter 5, Subdivisions, of
the Greenville City Code through the vested rights procedure gives the
applicant the right to start construction of the development as approved within
two years of approval. A vested right is obtained:
      (1)   Automatically when a special use permit is granted by virtue of
Board of Adjustment approval:
       (2)   Automatically when a subdivision plat is approved and the plat
recorded in accordance with the procedure set forth in Title 9, Chapter 5,
Subdivisions, of the Greenville City Code: and
      (3)   Automatically when the Board of Adjustment approves a site-specific
vesting plan submitted by a developer in conjunction with an application for a
zoning permit with vested rights as described in this section.
   (C)   A vested right shall be a deemed established to any property upon the
valid approval of a site plan by the authority having planning and zoning
jurisdiction over the property. The vested right shall confer upon the
landowner, the right to undertake and complete the development and use of the
property under the terms and conditions of the site plan. Nothing in this
section shall prohibit the city from revoking the original approval for failure
to comply with applicable terms and conditions of the approval.
   (D)   A site plan shall be deemed approved upon the effective date of the
action as noted upon the site plan or other method customarily utilized by the
applicable approval authority.
(E)   A right which has been vested as provided for in this section shall
remain vested for a period of two years. This vesting shall not be extended by
any amendments or modifications to any site plan. A right which has been vested
as provided in this section shall terminate at the end of the aforesaid vesting
period with respect to buildings and uses for which no valid building permit
applications have been filed.
   (F)   A vested right, once established as provided for in this section,
precludes any zoning action by the city which would change, alter, impair,
prevent, diminish or otherwise delay the development or use of the property as
set forth in an approved site plan, except as provided by state or federal law.
Applicable new regulations shall become effective with respect to property
which is subject to a site plan upon the expiration or termination of the
vesting rights period provided for in this section.
   (G)   Notwithstanding any provision of this section, the establishment of a
vested right shall not preclude, change or impair the authority of the city to
adopt and enforce Zoning Ordinance provisions governing nonconforming
situations, lots or uses.
   (H)   A vested right obtained under this section is not a personal right,
but shall attach to and run with the applicable property. After approval of a
site plan, all successors to the original landowner shall be entitled to
exercise such rights as provided herein.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to conflict with the rights
conferred upon a subdivider by the city subdivision regulations when
preliminary subdivision plat approval has been given to a nonconforming
project.
   (J)   Except as provided in this section, no building permit shall be
issued, nor shall any site plan approval be vested for a project that does not
conform with these regulations.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-4-35 DEVELOPMENT PLAN VESTED RIGHTS.
   (A)   Pre-Application Conference. The applicant for site development plan
approval with vested rights shall meet with the Director of Planning and
Development Services or designee to inquire about specific zoning requirements.
The applicant and the Director of Planning and Development Services shall
discuss the site development plan review process and applicable meetings,
scheduling, and deadlines. In addition, the Director of Planning and
Development Services shall advise the applicant of the specific requirements
the project needs to address and discuss other aspects of the vested rights
procedure.
   (B)   Filing of application. In order to apply for site development plan
review under the vested rights procedure, the applicant must indicate their
intent to obtain vested rights in the form of a letter to the Director of
Planning and Development Services. The letter shall include the property
address, Pitt County Tax Office parcel identification number, name of the
property owner, and any other pertinent information.
   (C)   Site Development Plan required. Site Development plans prepared in
accordance with the standards set forth by this ordinance shall be submitted
when applying for vested rights. The standards for the site development plan to
be submitted depend upon the specified development review process in this
ordinance.
   (D)   The Director of Planning and Development Services shall review the
application and accompanying site development plan(s) for compliance with the
requirements of this ordinance and other applicable regulations. After review
and approval through the appropriate administrative staff level review process,
the request for vested rights will be scheduled for an evidentiary hearing
before the Board of Adjustment. The evidentiary hearing will be scheduled as
provided by the Board of Adjustment's rules of procedure.
   (E)   Requests for vested rights for Site Development Plans shall be
scheduled for formal review at the next regular meeting of the Board of
Adjustment following review and approval by staff and/or the Planning and
Zoning Commission. At this time, the Board of Adjustment shall hold an
evidentiary hearing to review the Site Development Plan and evaluate its
conformance with the requirements of this ordinance and other applicable
requirements of the City of Greenville. In considering an application for Site
Development Plan approval with vested rights, the Board of Adjustment shall
give due regard to whether issuance of the permit would serve the purpose and
intent of this ordinance, secure public safety and welfare, and do substantial
justice. If the Board of Adjustment should find, after evidentiary hearing,
that the proposed permit should not be granted, the permit should be denied. If
the Board of Adjustment finds that the request meets the requirements stated
above, it then shall take one of the following actions.
      (1)   Approve the Site Development Plan with vested rights request. The
Director of Planning and Development Services is then directed to issue a
vested rights zoning permit.
      (2)   Approve the Site Development Plan with vested rights request
subject to conditions which are necessary to protect the public health, safety,
and welfare. The Director of Planning and Development Services is then directed
to issue the vested rights zoning permit subject to the changes in the Site
Development Plan to be made by the developer.
      (3)   Continue the Site Development Plan with vested rights request
pending the submittal of additional information.
   (F)   Findings. In granting a zoning permit with vested rights the Board of
Adjustment shall make the following affirmative findings.
      (1)   The use requested is among those permitted in the district in which
the property is located and complies with all the requirements of this and
other applicable ordinances;
      (2)   The requested permit is either essential or desirable for the
public convenience or welfare;
      (3)   The requested permit will not impair the integrity or character of
the surrounding or adjoining districts and will not be detrimental to the
health, safety, or welfare of the community; and
      (4)   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage, sanitation and/or other
necessary facilities have been or are being provided.
   (G)   Additional restrictions and requirements. In granting a zoning permit
with vested rights, the Board of Adjustment may impose such additional
restrictions and requirements upon the permit as it may deem necessary in order
that the purpose and intent of this ordinance are served, public welfare
secured, and substantial justice done. Approval of a site specific development
plan with the condition that a variance or modification be obtained shall not
confer a vested right unless and until the necessary variance or modification
is obtained. If all requirements and conditions are accepted by the applicant,
the Board of Adjustment shall authorize the issuance of the permit; otherwise
the permit shall be denied. Unless otherwise approved under authority of
G.S.160D-108(d)(2), any permit so authorized shall remain vested for two years
from the date of the action granting the permit. No change or amendment to any
zonine permit with vested rights shall be made except after an evidentiary
hearing and except as provided for in this Ordinance for the original issuance
of such permit. If. at the time of consideration of a proposed change or
amendment to an existing permit, the permit or proposed change or amendment
could not be lawfully made under ordinance conditions existing at that time,
the proposed change or amendment shall be denied. In addition, in no case shall
there be an extension of the two-year time period for which the development
right is vested. Nothing herein shall exempt plans related to the permit from
subsequent reviews and approvals to ensure compliance with the terms and
conditions of the original approval, provided that such reviews and approvals
are not inconsistent with the original approvals.
   (H)   Variances from the procedures and requirements for obtaining vested
rights as set forth in this section shall not be permitted. Requests for
variances from the development standards established by this ordinance shall be
heard by the Board of Adjustment.
   (I)   Violations of the terms and/or conditions of the vested rights
approval shall be considered a violation of this ordinance and shall be subject
to the enforcement and penalty provisions set forth in this ordinance. In
addition, the Board of Adjustment may, after legislative hearing, revoke any
such vested rights for failure to abide by any such term or condition.
   (J)   Any development constructed pursuant to a zoning permit with vested
rights for which the vested term has expired and which is not in conformance
with all the terms of the Ordinance because of changes made in the provisions
of this ordinance, including the official zoning map, after the issuance of the
permit shall be subject to the provisions of this ordinance relating to non-
conformities the same as any other nonconformity.
(Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-4-36 ANNEXATION DECLARATION OF VESTED RIGHTS.
   Any landowner who signs an annexation petition to the city pursuant to G.S.
160A-31 or G.S. 160A-58.1 shall, as part of that petition, file a signed
statement declaring whether or not vested rights with respect to the property
subject to the petition have been established under G.S. 160D-108.1. If the
statement declares that such rights have been established, the city may require
petitioners to provide proof of such rights. A statement which declares that no
vested rights have been established by law shall be binding on the landowner
and any such vested right shall be terminated.
(Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-4-37 REMOVAL OF CERTAIN NONCONFORMING USES REQUIRED.
   The following uses, if they are or become nonconforming by virtue of the
adoption of this chapter or of subsequent amendments thereto, shall be removed
within 39 months after the date of adoption hereof or of the amendment:
      Stockyards or livestock sale pavilions.
(Ord. No. 2074, passed 10-5-1989; Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord.
No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-4-38 REMOVAL OF CERTAIN NONCONFORMING RESIDENTIAL ACCESSORY USES AND/OR
STRUCTURES REQUIRED.
   The following accessory uses and/or structures, if they are or become
nonconforming by virtue of this chapter or of subsequent amendments thereto,
shall be removed within 12 months after the date of adoption hereof or of the
amendment:
      Sports ramps.
(Ord. No. 04-95, § 3, passed 8-12-2004; Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
ARTICLE D. ZONING DISTRICTS
PART 1. INTERPRETATION
SEC. 9-4-41 LOCATION AND BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICTS.
   The location and boundaries of the districts established by
Part 2 of this article shall be shown on the official zoning map.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-42 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF BOUNDARIES.
   Where the location of district boundaries on the official zoning map is
uncertain and where no specific ordinance description is found to exist, the
following rules shall apply:
   (A)   Streets, rights-of-way and easements. Boundaries indicated on the
zoning map as approximately following the centerline of a street, highway,
railroad right-of-way, utility easement, stream or river bed, or of the lines
extended, shall be construed to be those district boundaries.
   (B)   Lot lines. Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot
lines shall be construed as following the lot lines.
   (C)   Political boundaries.  Boundaries indicated as approximately following
political boundaries shall be construed as following the political boundaries.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-43 VACATION, ABANDONMENT OR WITHDRAWAL OF STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Where any public street or alley is hereafter officially closed or
abandoned, the regulations applicable to parcels of abutting property shall
apply to that portion of the street or alley added thereto by virtue of the
vacation or abandonment.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-44 FURTHER INTERPRETATION BY BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   In case any further uncertainty exists, the Board of Adjustment shall
interpret the intent of the map as to location of the boundaries.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
PART 2. PURPOSE
SEC. 9-4-45 ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   In order that the purposes of these regulations may be accomplished, the
following zoning districts are hereby established within the jurisdiction area
as described in section
9-4-4. The uses prescribed in each zoning district are intended to preserve and
enhance the physical character of the area as well as to conserve and stabilize
property values.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-46 RA-20 RESIDENTIAL-AGRICULTURAL.
   The RA-20 District is primarily designed to accommodate a compatible mixture
of single-family dwellings and agricultural uses at lower densities. These
areas are generally found in areas without sewer service that are not yet
appropriate for development at higher densities.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-47 R-15S RESIDENTIAL-SINGLE-FAMILY.
   The R-15S District is primarily designed to accommodate single-family uses
at lower densities.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-48 R-9S RESIDENTIAL-SINGLE-FAMILY.
   The R-9S District is primarily designed to accommodate single-family
dwellings at medium densities.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-49 R-9 RESIDENTIAL.
   The R-9 District is primarily designed to accommodate a compatible mixture
of single-family and two-family dwellings at medium densities.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 97-83, § 1, passed 8-14-1997)
SEC. 9-4-50 R-6S RESIDENTIAL-SINGLE-FAMILY.
   The R-6S District is primarily designed to accommodate single-family
dwellings at medium densities.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 97-83, § 2, passed 8-14-1997)
SEC. 9-4-51 R-6 RESIDENTIAL.
   The R-6 District is primarily designed to accommodate a compatible mixture
of single-family, two-family and multi-family dwellings at higher densities.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-51.1 R-6A RESIDENTIAL.
   The R-6A District is primarily designed to accommodate a compatible mixture
of single-family, two-family and multi- family dwellings at medium densities.
(Ord. No. 95-29, § 1, passed 3-9-1995)
SEC. 9-4-51.2 R-6A RESTRICTED RESIDENTIAL USE (RU) OVERLAY.
   The purpose of the R-6A Restricted Residential Use (RU) Overlay District is
to provide a residential development option designed to encourage single-family
and/or two-family attached (duplex) development and to prohibit multi-family
development within the underlying R-6A District included within the overlay.
(Ord. No. 04-123, § 1, passed 10-14-2004)
SEC. 9-4-52 R-6N RESIDENTIAL-NEIGHBORHOOD REVITALIZATION.
   The R-6N District is primarily designed to accommodate single-family
dwellings and a limited number of two-family and multi-family dwellings at
higher densities.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-53 R-6MH RESIDENTIAL-MOBILE HOME.
   The R-6MH District is primarily designed to accommodate a compatible mixture
of single-family (including mobile homes), two-family and multi-family
dwellings at higher densities.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-54 PUD PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   The PUD District is a special use residential zoning district that provides
an alternative to traditional development standards and as farther provided
under Article J.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-55 MI MEDICAL-INSTITUTIONAL.
   The MI District is primarily designed to provide areas where the
institutionalized care of physically and/or mentally ill people can be provided
and where governmental or private agencies, offices, or institutions can
provide services of a medical, para-medical, or social service nature. It shall
also be the purpose of this district to provide for a healthful environment
that is conducive to the care and convalescing of ill people.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 97-85, §§ 1, 2, passed 8-14-
1997)
SEC. 9-4-56 MS MEDICAL-SUPPORT.
   The MS District is primarily designed to create areas in which hospitals,
rehabilitation centers, medical offices and clinics may be compatibly mixed, in
order that these related uses can be near each other for doctor and patient
convenience. The district shall also allow a wider variety of medical support
services. In addition, through its permitted uses, the district shall encourage
a healthful environment in abutting residential areas, as well as within the
health care delivery community.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 97-85, §§ 1, 2, passed 8-14-
1997)
SEC. 9-4-57 MO MEDICAL-OFFICE.
   The MO District is primarily designed to provide for general business,
professional offices and institutional uses, as well as to provide additional
areas for medical offices and clinics to locate in a professional office
environment. In addition, the district shall prohibit commercial and industrial
land uses which can generate large traffic volumes, and shall encourage the
development of areas that will serve as a buffer for residential zoning
districts.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 97-85, §§ 1, 2, passed 8-14-
1997)
SEC. 9-4-58 MCG MEDICAL-GENERAL COMMERCIAL.
   The MCG District is primarily designed to provide for the sale of
convenience goods, for provision of personal services, and for other frequent
needs of the trade area within the medical district community in a planned
shopping center environment. In addition, it is the purpose of this section to
require that development sites of less than four acres be developed in
conjunction with larger development sites in such a way that sites of less than
four acres are served by internal traffic circulation in conjunction with the
larger development site.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 97-85, §§ 1, 2, passed 8-14-
1997)
SEC. 9-4-59 MR MEDICAL-RESIDENTIAL.
   The MR District is primarily designed to accommodate a compatible mixture of
single-family, two-family and multi-family dwellings at higher densities.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 97-85, §§ 1, 2, passed 8-14-
1997)
SEC. 9-4-60 MCH MEDICAL-HEAVY COMMERCIAL.
   The MCH District is primarily designed to accommodate commercial
developments that will best service the motoring public, as well as uses that
will generate large traffic volumes in a development atmosphere that shall
encourage compact, convenient shopping.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 97-85, §§ 1, 2, passed 8-14-
1997)
SEC. 9-4-61 MRS MEDICAL-RESIDENTIAL-SINGLE-FAMILY.
   The MRS District is primarily designed to accommodate a compatible mixture
of single-family dwellings and agricultural uses at lower densities.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 97-85, §§ 1, 2, passed 8-14-
1997)
SEC. 9-4-62 OR OFFICE-RESIDENTIAL.
   The OR District is primarily designed to accommodate a compatible mix of
two-family attached and multi-family dwellings and business and professional
uses in addition to providing a desirable buffer between commercial and high
density residential uses.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 97-85, §§ 1, 2, passed 8-14-
1997)
SEC. 9-4-63 O OFFICE.
   The O District is primarily designed to accommodate a compatible mix of
business, professional and institutional uses, in addition to providing a
desirable buffer between commercial and low density residential uses.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 97-85, §§ 1, 2, passed 8-14-
1997)
SEC. 9-4-64 CN NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL.
   The CN Neighborhood Commercial District is primarily designed to accommodate
convenient shopping facilities consisting primarily of necessary goods and
personal services required to serve a neighborhood.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-65 CD DOWNTOWN COMMERCIAL.
   The purpose of the CD District is to provide convenient shopping and service
facilities by promoting compact development of commercial, office and service
uses. High density residential development is encouraged to be compatibly mixed
with permitted nonresidential uses.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-66 CDF DOWNTOWN COMMERCIAL FRINGE.
   The purpose of the CDF District is to provide commercial and service
activities designed to enhance the downtown commercial area, stimulate
redevelopment and encourage a compatible mix of commercial and high density
residential development.
(1971 Code, § 9-4-67) (Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-67 CH HEAVY COMMERCIAL.
   The CH District is primarily designed to provide roadside uses which will
best accommodate the needs of the motoring public and of businesses demanding
high volume traffic.
(1971 Code, § 9-4-69) (Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 97-85, §§
1, 2, passed 8-14-1997)
SEC. 9-4-68 CG GENERAL COMMERCIAL.
   The purpose of the CG District is to accommodate a variety of commercial and
service activities on an individual lot-by- lot basis and in a planned center
setting.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 97-85, §§ 1, 2, passed 8-14-
1997)
SEC. 9-4-69 PI PLANNED INDUSTRY.
   The purpose of the PI Industry District shall be to accomplish those
purposes set forth under section
9-4-72 while providing an alternative to traditional industrial development
dimensional and subdivision standards designed to:
   (A)   Promote economical and efficient use of lands;
   (B)   Reduce initial development costs;
   (C)   Encourage innovative industrial development design and layout of
buildings;
   (D)   Provide large lot developments which enhance the physical appearance
of the area by preserving natural features, open space and existing vegetation;
and
   (E)   Allow ground absorption and filtration of street and site surface
drainage thereby reducing negative impacts on downstream water quality.
(1971 Code, § 9-4-73) (Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-70 IU UNOFFENSIVE INDUSTRY.
   The IU District is primarily designed to accommodate those industrial and
wholesale, and warehouse uses which, by their nature, do not create an
excessive amount of noise, odor, smoke, dust, airborne debris or other
objectionable impacts which might be detrimental to the health, safety or
welfare of surrounding areas.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-71 PIU PLANNED UNOFFENSIVE INDUSTRY.
   The purpose of the PIU District shall be to accomplish those purposes set
forth under section
9-4-70 while providing an alternative to traditional industrial development
dimensional and subdivision standards designed to:
   (A)   Promote economical and efficient use of lands;
   (B)   Reduce initial development costs;
   (C)   Encourage innovative industrial development design and layout of
buildings;
   (D)   Provide large lot developments which enhance the physical appearance
of the area by preserving natural features, open space and existing vegetation;
and
   (E)   Allow ground absorption and filtration of street and site surface
drainage thereby reducing negative impacts on downstream water quality.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-72 I INDUSTRY.
   The I Industry District is primarily designed to accommodate those
industrial, wholesale and warehouse uses which by their nature may create an
excessive amount of noise, odor, smoke, dust, airborne debris or other
objectionable impacts which might be detrimental to the health, safety or
welfare of surrounding areas.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-73 CA CONSERVATION OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   The purpose of the CA Conservation Area Overlay District shall be to provide
for permanent open space and desirable buffers between proposed uses and
incompatible adjacent land uses, environmentally sensitive areas or hazardous
areas in excess of minimum standards and to provide a method and means by which
the open space and increased buffer areas may be utilized to fulfill zoning
requirements applicable to individual lot development pursuant to Article L,
Special Districts.
(1971 Code, § 9-4-76)
SEC. 9-4-74 WS WATER SUPPLY WATERSHED OVERLAY.
   The purpose of the WS Water Supply Watershed Overlay District shall be to
protect and manage surface water supply watersheds pursuant to the Water Supply
Watershed Act of 1989 and N.C. G.S. 143-214.5 as amended. The WS Overlay
District shall include both a (WS-C) Critical Area and (WS-P) Protected Area
District as defined and regulated pursuant to Article L.
(Ord. No. 2640, § 4, passed 6-10-1993)
SEC. 9-4-75 HD HISTORIC OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   The purpose of the HD Historic District Overlay District shall be to
preserve, protect and manage locally designated historic landmarks pursuant to
Article L, Special Districts.
(Ord. No. 94-22, § 1, passed 2-10-1994)
SEC. 9-4-76 UC URBAN CORE OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   The purpose of the UC Urban Core Overlay District is to allow modification
of residential development standards of the underlying zoning district(s) which
are designed to facilitate development and redevelopment of in-fill sites.
(Ord. No. 10-19, § 1, passed 3-4-2010)
SEC. 9-4-77 UNIVERSITY NEIGHBORHOOD REVITALIZATION INITIATIVE (UNRI) OVERLAY
DISTRICT.
   The purpose of the University Neighborhood Revitalization Initiative (UNRI)
Overlay District is to allow modifications of the standards of the underlying
zoning district(s) which are designed to provide for compatibility among
university neighborhood properties in order to facilitate the sustainability,
preservation, restoration, and revitalization of the university neighborhood.
(Ord. No. 12-045, § 1, passed 10-11-2012; Ord. No. 14-020, passed 4-10-2014)
SEC. 9-4-77.3 MUI MIXED USE INSTITUTIONAL.
   The purpose of the Mixed Use Institutional (MUI) district is to encourage an
innovative mixture of uses on a site or campus that is under the control of a
single entity that has a controlling governmental interest, or that is
controlled by a hospital, college or university. While this district is
intended to be predominantly developed as an innovation park containing office/
institutional and research activities, it may also contain a balanced mixture
of supporting residential, commercial and light industrial uses.
(Ord. No. 20-020, § 2, passed 5-18-2020)
PART 3. PERMITTED AND SPECIAL USES
SEC. 9-4-78 TABLE OF USES.
   The Table of Uses is set forth in
Appendix A to this chapter.
   (A)   Permitted uses are indicated in the table by the letter P.
   (B)   Special uses are indicated in the table by the letter S.
   (C)   (1)   Each listed principal use activity is assigned a land use
classification number (LUC#) ranging from one to five, for purposes of
determining required bufferyards.
      (2)   In the case of planned centers containing multiple principal uses,
such as shopping centers, office/commercial unit ownership type developments
and the like, the initial bufferyard requirement shall be based on the
anticipated primary occupancy of the center and the requirement shall apply to
all subsequent uses absent any change in zoning for the planned center.
   (D)   Each listed accessory use activity and the master plan community use
is assigned an asterisk (*) in substitution for a land use classification
number. Such, and other accessory use(s) and various uses within an approved
master plan community shall be subject to the land use classification number of
the associated principal use.
   (E)   The index to the use table categories is set forth in
Appendix A to this chapter.
   (F)   The following uses may, in addition to other unlisted uses, be subject
to special licensing or regulatory approval of City Council.
      (1)   Vehicles for hire; taxi or limousine service;
      (2)   Parades;
      (3)   Junk dealers;
      (4)   Solicitations by charitable organizations;
      (5)   Auctions of gold, jewels and the like;
      (6)   Poolrooms;
      (7)   Bowling alleys;
      (8)   Pawnshops;
      (9)   Sexually oriented businesses; massage parlors;
      (10)   Transient merchants, itinerant merchants and vendors;
      (11)   Sunday observances; hours of operation; and
      (12)   Municipal buildings, parks or recreation areas to be used for
athletic events and/or night programs which are located in a residential area.
   (G)   It shall be the responsibility of each person who uses or proposes to
use any land(s) subject to this chapter, to have knowledge of all requirements
and restrictions applicable to the particular use whether set forth herein or
otherwise required by law.
(Ord. No. 2355, §§ 1, 2, passed 8-9-1991; Ord. No. 2365, § 1, passed 9-12-1991;
Ord. No. 2366, § 1, passed 9-12-1991; Ord. No. 2367, § 1, passed 9-12-1991;
Ord. No. 2368, § 2, passed 9-12-1991; Ord. No. 2381, § 1, passed 11-7-1991;
Ord. No. 2383, § 2, passed 11-7-1991; Ord. No. 2390, § 2, passed 12-12-1991;
Ord. No. 2408, § 1, passed 1-9-1992; Ord. No. 2409, § 2, passed 1-9-1992; Ord.
No. 2410, § 1, passed 1-9-1992; Ord. No. 2417, § 1, passed 2-10-1992; Ord. No.
2421, § 1, passed 2-13-1992; Ord. No. 2422, § 1, passed 2-13-1992; Ord. No.
2433, §§ 1, 2, passed 3-12-1992; Ord. No. 2436, § 2, passed 3-12-1992; Ord. No.
2449, § 1, passed 4-9-1992; Ord. No. 2450, § 1, passed 4-9-1992; Ord. No. 2468,
§ 2, passed 6-8-1992; Ord. No. 2488, § 2, passed 7-9-1992; Ord. No. 2489, § 2,
passed 7-9-1992; Ord. No. 2498, § 1, passed 8-13-1992; Ord. No. 2499, § 1,
passed 8-13-1992; Ord. No. 2500, § 1, passed 8-13-1992; Ord. No. 2542, § 1,
passed 11-12-1992; Ord. No. 2544, § 1, passed 11-12-1992; Ord. No. 2545, § 1,
passed 11-12-1992; Ord. No. 2564, § 1, passed 1-14-1993; Ord. No. 2565, § 1,
passed 1-14-1993; Ord. No. 2592, § 1, passed 2-11-1993; Ord. No. 2594, § 1,
passed 2-11-1993; Ord. No. 2623, § 1, passed 4-8-1993; Ord. No. 2632, § 1,
passed 5-13-1993; Ord. No. 2700, §§ 1, 3, 4, passed 8-12-1993; Ord. No. 2701, §
1, passed 10-14-1993; Ord. No. 2723, § 1, passed 10-14-1993; Ord. No. 2725, §§
1–3, passed 10-14-1993; Ord. No. 94-78, § 1, passed 6-9-1994; Ord. No. 94-123,
§ 1, passed 9-8-1994; Ord. No. 94-124, § 1, passed 9-8-1994; Ord. No. 94-132,
§§ 1–12, passed 10-13-1994; Ord. No. 94-133, § 2, passed 10-13-1994; Ord. No.
94-134, § 1, passed 10-13-1994; Ord. No. 94-135, § 2, passed 10-13-1994; Ord.
No. 94-156, § 2, passed 12-8-1994; Ord. No. 94-158, §§ 1, 2, passed 12-8-1994;
Ord. No. 95-10, § 1, passed 1-12-1995; Ord. No. 95-29, §§ 2, 3, passed 3-9-
1995; Ord. No. 95-30, § 1, passed 3-9-1995; Ord. No. 95-113, § 1, passed 11-9-
1995; Ord. No. 95-134, § 1, passed 12-14-1995; Ord. No. 95-135, § 1, passed 12-
14-1995; Ord. No. 95-136, § 1, passed 12-14-1995; Ord. No. 96-43, §§ 1, 2,
passed 6-13-1996; Ord. No. 96-46, §§ 1, 2, passed 6-13-1996; Ord. No. 96-76, §
1, passed 8-8-1996; Ord. No. 96-77, §§ 1–8, passed 8-8-1996; Ord. No. 96-80, §§
1, 2, passed 8-8-1996; Ord. No. 96-89, §§ 1–3, passed 9-12-1996; Ord. No. 97-5,
§§ 6–8, passed 1-9-1997; Ord. No. 97-16, § 1, passed 2-13-1997; Ord. No. 97-21,
§ 1, passed 2-24-1997; Ord. No. 97-36, § 1, passed 4-10-1997; Ord. No. 97-38,
§§ 2, 3, passed 4-10-1997; Ord. No. 97-84, §§ 1–3, passed 8-14-1997; Ord. No.
97-85, §§ 1, 2, passed 8-14-1997; Ord. No. 97-86, §§ 3, 4, passed 8-14-1997;
Ord. No. 97-87, § 1, passed 8-14-1997; Ord. No. 97-88, § 1, passed 8-14-1997;
Ord. No. 98-143, §§ 2, 3, passed 11-12-1998; Ord. No. 99-153, § 1, passed 12-9-
1999; Ord. No. 00-19, § 7, passed 2-10-2000; Ord. No. 00-152, § 1, passed 11-
09-2000; Ord. No. 01-13, § 1, passed 2-08-2001; Ord. No. 02-16, § 1-2, passed
2-14-2002; Ord. No. 02-103, § 1, passed 10-10-2002; Ord. No. 03-14, § 1, passed
2-13-2003; Ord. No. 03-31, §§ 1, 2, 3, 4, passed 4-10-2003; Ord. No. 03-49, §§
3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, passed 6-12-2003; Ord. No. 04-43, § 1,
passed 5-13-2004; Ord. No. 04-94, § 1, passed 8-12-2004; Ord. No. 04-122, §§ 2,
3, passed 10-14-2004; Ord. No. 04-143, § 1, passed 11-8-2004; Ord. No. 05-64,
§§ 1–2, passed 6-9-2005; Ord. No. 05-89, §§ 2–6, passed 8-11-2005; Ord. No. 05-
122, § 1, passed 10-13-2005; Ord. No. 06-93, §§ 1,3, passed 9-14-2006; Ord. No.
06-113, §§ 1–2, passed 11-9-2006; Ord. No. 07–11, § 2-3, passed 1-11-2007; Ord.
No. § 1, passed 2-8-2007; Ord. No. 07-74, § 1, passed 6-14-2007; Ord. No. 07-
108, § 1, passed 9-13-2007; Ord. No. 07-151, §§ 1–2, passed 12-13-2007; Ord.
No. 08-04, §§ 1, 2, passed 1-10-2008; Ord. No. 08-26, § 1, passed 3-13-2008;
Ord. No. 08-68, § 1, passed 6-12-2008; Ord. No. 09-75, § 2, passed 9-10-2009;
Ord. No. 09-99, § 1, passed 12-10-2009; Ord. No. 14-048, 2, passed 8-14-2014;
Ord. No. 14-058, 1, passed 9-11-2014; Ord. No. 15-041, §§ 1 - 3, passed 8-13-
2015; Ord. No. 16-010, §§ 1, 2, passed 2-11-2016; Ord. No. 16-066, § 3, passed
12-8-2016; Ord. No. 18-035, § 1, passed 6-14-2018; Ord. No. 18-036, § 1, passed
6-14-2018; Ord. No. 20-020, §§ 4, 5, passed 5-18-2020; Ord. No. 20-034, § 1,
passed 6-15-2020; Ord. No. 20-052, § 3. passed 9-14-2020; Ord. No. 20-064, § 2,
passed 11-16-2020; Ord. No. 21-003, § 3, passed  1-19-2021; Ord. No. 22-054, §
1, passed 6-9-2022)
PART 4. OVERLAY DISTRICTS
SEC. 9-4-79 STANDARDS FOR OVERLAY DISTRICTS.
   Where any lands are located within any overlay district(s) the applicable
standards, uses, conditions and restrictions specified under Article L shall be
in addition to the standards, uses, conditions and restrictions of the
underlaying zoning district(s). Unless otherwise specified, where any conflict
exists between any one or more overlay or underlaying district standards, uses,
conditions and restrictions, the more restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. No. 2640, § 6, passed 6-10-1993)
ARTICLE E. STANDARDS AND CRITERIA FOR SPECIAL USES
SEC. 9-4-81 GENERAL CRITERIA.
   The Board of Adjustment may grant permission for the establishment of a
listed special use if the Board finds from the evidence produced after a study
of the complete record, as follows, that:
   (A)   Conditions and specifications. The proposed use meets all required
conditions and specifications of the Zoning Ordinance and policies of the city
for submission of a special use permit. Such conditions and specifications
include but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Compliance with lot area and dimensional standards;
      (2)   Compliance with setback and other locational standards;
      (3)   Compliance with off-street parking requirements;
      (4)   Compliance with all additional specific criteria set forth for the
particular use, section
9-4-84 of this article; and
      (5)   Compliance with all application submission requirements.
   (B)   Comprehensive Plan. The proposed use is in general conformity with the
Comprehensive Land Use Plan of the city and its extraterritorial jurisdiction;
   (C)   Health and safety. The proposed use will not adversely affect the
health and safety of persons residing or working in the neighborhood of the
proposed use. Such health and safety considerations include but are not limited
to the following:
      (1)   The safe and convenient location of all on-site parking and drives;
      (2)   The existing vehicular traffic on area streets;
      (3)   The condition and capacity of area street(s) which will provide
access to the proposed development;
      (4)   The visibility afforded to both pedestrians and operators of motor
vehicles both on-site and off-site;
      (5)   The reasonably anticipated increase in vehicular traffic generated
by the proposed use; and
      (6)   The anticipated, existing and designed vehicular and pedestrian
movements both on-site and off-site.
   (D)   Detriment to public welfare.  The proposed use will not be detrimental
to the public welfare or to the use or development of adjacent properties or
other neighborhood uses;
   (E)   Existing uses detrimental. The proposed use would not be adversely
affected by the existing uses in the area in which it is proposed;
   (F)   Injury to properties or improvements.  The proposed use will not
injure, by value or otherwise, adjoining or abutting property or public
improvements in the neighborhood; and
   (G)   Nuisance or hazard. The proposed use will not constitute a nuisance or
hazard. Such nuisance or hazard considerations include but are not limited to
the following:
      (1)   The number of persons who can reasonably be expected to frequent or
attend the establishment at any one time;
      (2)   The intensity of the proposed use in relation to the intensity of
adjoining and area uses;
      (3)   The visual impact of the proposed use;
      (4)   The method of operation or other physical activities of the
proposed use;
       (5)   The noise; odor; smoke; dust; emissions of gas, particles, solids
or other objectionable or toxic characteristics which are proposed or that can
reasonably be expected to be a result of the operation of the proposed use; and
      (6)   The danger of fire or explosion.
(Ord. No. 99-19, § 1, passed 2-11-1999)
SEC. 9-4-82 ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS.
   The Board of Adjustment may impose or require additional conditions,
restrictions and standards as may be necessary to protect the health and safety
of workers and residents of the community, and to protect the value and use of
property in the general neighborhood.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-83 REVOCATION OF PERMITS AFTER NOTICE AND OPPORTUNITY TO BE HEARD.
   Whenever the Board of Adjustment shall find, in the case of any permit
granted pursuant to the provisions of these regulations, that any of the terms,
conditions or restrictions upon which the permit was granted are not being
complied with, the Board shall rescind and revoke the permit after giving
notice to all parties concerned and granting full opportunities for a hearing.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-84 SPECIFIC CRITERIA.
   The Board of Adjustment may grant permission for the establishment of the
uses listed under section
9-4-85 subject to the specific criteria set forth under section
9-4-86, the general criteria of section
9-4-81, as well as any specialconditions which the Board may deem necessary to
satisfy the general criteria set forth in section
9-4-81.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-4-85 INDEX TO LISTED USES REQUIRING A SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Adult uses;
   (B)   Major or minor repair facilities;
   (C)   Banks and savings and loan facilities;
   (D)   Cemetery;
   (E)   Child day care facilities;
   (F)   Bar;
   (F)   1.   Dining and entertainment establishments;
   (G)   Fraternity or sorority;
   (H)   Greenhouse or plant nursery;
   (I)   Group care facility;
   (J)   Junkyard or automobile graveyard;
   (K)   Manufacture of nonhazardous medical supplies or medical products,
including distribution;
   (L)   Office; professional and business;
   (M)   Public utility building or use;
   (N)   Radio and television studios, transmission and/or receiving
facilities;
   (O)   Residential quarters for resident managers or caretakers.
   (P)   Restaurants; conventional or fast food;
   (Q)   Medical supply sales and rental of medically related products;
   (R)   Mining, quarrying, and temporary sand mining;
   (S)   Sanitary landfill or incinerator;
   (T)   Public or private noncommercial park or recreational facility;
   (U)   Home occupation;
   (V)   Retirement center, home or related uses;
   (W)   School;
   (X)   Stable;
   (Y)   Boarding or rooming house;
   (Z)   Nursing, convalescent or maternity home;
   (AA)   Shelter for homeless or abused persons;
   (BB)   Multi-purpose center;
   (CC)   Guest house for a college or institution of higher learning;
   (DD)   Church or place of worship;
   (EE)   Billiard parlor or pool hall;
   (FF)   Convention center; private;
   (GG)   Athletic club; outdoor facilities;
   (HH)   Adult day care facilities;
   (II)   Office and school supply, equipment sales;
   (JJ)   Hobby or craft shop;
   (KK)   Dry cleaning; household users, drop-off/pick-up station only;
   (LL)   Building supply; lumber and material sales, plumbing and/or
electrical supply including outside storage;
   (MM)   Dormitory development within the CD District;
   (NN)   Mental health, emotional or physical rehabilitation center;
   (OO)   Beekeeping; major use; and
   (PP)   Solar energy facility.
   (QQ)   Bar 2022.
(Ord. No. 2383, § 3, passed 11-7-1991; Ord. No. 2390, § 3, passed 12-12-1991;
Ord. No. 2417, § 2, passed 2-10-1992; Ord. No. 2544, § 2, passed 11-12-1992;
Ord. No. 2545, § 2, passed 11-12-1992; Ord. No. 2701, § 2, passed 8-12-1993;
Ord. No. 97-38, § 4, passed 4-10-1997; Ord. No. 97-88, § 2, passed 8-14-1997);
Ord. No. 03-49, § 1, passed 6-12-2003; Ord. No. 07-25, § 2, passed 2-8-2007;
Ord. No. 07-74, § 2, passed 6-14-2007; Ord. No. 07-121, § 1, passed 9-13-2007;
Ord. No. 08-04, § 4, passed 1-10-2008; Ord. No. 09-27, § 7, passed 4-9-2009;
Ord. No. 09-75, § 3, passed 9-10-2009; Ord. No. 10-106, § 4, passed 12-9-2010;
Ord. No. 13-014, § 3, passed 4-11-2013; Ord. 15-059, § 3, passed 10-8-2015;
Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021; Ord. No. 23-012, § 3, passed 1-12-2023)
SEC. 9-4-86 LISTED USES; SPECIFIC CRITERIA.
   (A)   Adult uses.
      (1)   All windows, doors, openings, entries and the like, for all adult
uses shall be so located, covered, screened or otherwise treated so the views
into the interior of the establishment are not possible from any public or
semipublic area, street or way.
      (2)   No adult use shall be established within 500 feet of any
residentially zoned land or permitted residential use, nor within 500 feet of
any church, school, park, playground, synagogue, convent, library, or other
area where large numbers of minors regularly travel or congregate.
      (3)   The lot containing an adult use shall not be located within a 500-
foot radius of another lot containing an adult use.
   (B)   Major or minor repair facilities.
      (1)   All wrecked or damaged motor vehicles and parts shall be screened
so as not to be visible from adjoining property lines and street right-of-way.
      (2)   All vehicles on the premises for repair shall be stored at the rear
of the principal structure.
      (3)   No vehicle shall be stored on the premises for more than 15 days.
      (4)   There shall be no exterior storage of items other than vehicles and
tires. Tires stored outside shall be in accordance with subsection (9) below.
      (5)   Sale of vehicles shall be in accordance with section
9-4-22, definition of automobile, truck, recreational vehicle, motorcycle and
boat sales, contained therein.
      (6)   Rental or utility trailers, cars and trucks shall be permitted as
accessory uses, provided that all units in excess of four shall be screened
from adjoining street right-of-way and property lines in accordance with
Bufferyard C or with a bufferyard of greater intensity as required by the
bufferyard regulations.
      (7)   Outdoor displays of products such as oil, wiper blades or other
similar products shall be permitted provided they are within ten feet of the
principal structure and outside required bufferyards. Signage displayed in
conjunction with such display shall be in accordance with the sign regulations.
A maximum of 24 tires may be displayed outside. All tires displayed outside of
buildings shall not be closer than ten feet from the principal structure and
shall not be more than twenty feet from the principal structure and must be
located outside of required bufferyards. All tires displayed outside of
buildings shall comply with compliance requirements set forth in subsection (9)
(h).
      (8)   All services except fuel sales shall be performed within a
completely enclosed building.
      (9)   Tires stored outside must comply with the following standards to
minimize their visual impact and reduce their potential as a public nuisance
and fire hazard:
         (a)   The maximum area devoted to tire storage shall be limited to 10%
of the property area or 25% of the building from which the business operates,
whichever is less;
         (b)   The maximum number of tires stored outside shall not exceed 300;
         (c)   Tires must be stored behind required bufferyards and located
where they are not visible from a street right-of-way or adjacent property
through the installation of opaque fencing and/or landscaping or placement of
tires behind buildings;
         (d)   All tires must be placed on racks in the upright position;
         (e)   There shall be a minimum separation of 20 feet between tire
racks and property lines, street right-of-way, and buildings;
         (f)   Rows of tire racks shall be separated from one another by a
minimum of five feet;
         (g)   The placement of tires stored outside shall be placed and
maintained in accordance with this subsection (9) and the North Carolina Fire
Code, as amended. The more restrictive provisions shall prevail between the NC
Fire Code and tire storage standards of this section; and
         (h)   Notwithstanding the provisions related to nonconforming uses and
situations contained in Article C of this chapter, the requirements contained
in this subsection (9) shall be applicable to all existing and future major and
minor repair facilities.
   (C)   Banks and savings and loan facilities.
      (1)   All automatic teller facilities shall be attached to the principal
structure.
      (2)   All drive-through teller services shall be located at the rear of
the principal structure.
   (D)   Cemetery. No gravesite shall be within ten feet of any property line
or within 25 feet of any street right-of-way.
   (E)   Child day care facilities.
      (1)   All accessory structures, including but not limited to playground
equipment and pools must be located in the rear yard.
      (2)   The minimum lot size shall be increased by a ratio of 100 square
feet per child in excess of five.
      (3)   Outdoor play area shall be provided at a ratio of 100 square feet
per child and shall be enclosed by a fence at least four feet in height.
Further, all playground equipment shall be located in accordance with the
bufferyard regulations.
      (4)   If located in a residential district, a residential appearance of
the site shall be maintained to the greatest possible extent.
      (5)   Employee parking shall be at the rear of the structure when a child
day care facility is located in a residential district.
   (F)   Bar.
      (1)   (a)   Annual review. A special use permit for a bar is subject to
annual review in accordance with the provisions of this subsection (F)(l).
Nothing herein shall prohibit or restrict the authority of the Board of
Adjustment to modify, rescind or revoke a special use permit for a bar in
accordance with the provisions of section
9-4-83.
         (b)   Reporting. At the regular January meeting of the Board of
Adjustment, the Director of Planning and Development Services or their
authorized representative shall present to the Board of Adjustment a written
staff report of any violation that has been issued for which the annual review
shall include a finding of one or more instances of noncompliance with
applicable laws, codes and ordinances, including but not limited to noise
regulations, litter control regulations, fire codes, building codes, nuisance
and public safety regulations, and special use permit conditions of approval.
If the Board of Adjustment votes to hold a hearing for modification or
revocation of the special use permit, the property owner, as specified under
subsection (F)(4) below, shall be provided notice of the meeting and a copy of
the staff report.
         (c)   Noncompliance; and modification or revocation. Staff may request
for the Board of Adjustment to hold a hearing for a modification or revocation
of a special use permit for any establishment that has enforcement actions for
numerous violations of one or more instances of noncompliance with applicable
laws, codes and ordinances including notices of violation and/or numerous calls
for service from city departments such as Police, Fire, Public Works, or
Planning & Development Services, not limited to noise regulations, litter
control regulations, fire codes, building codes, nuisance and public safety
regulations, notices of violations and special use permit conditions at any
time. The special use permit holder, and property owner, if not the same
individual, as specified under subsection (F)(4) below, shall be provided
notice of the meeting and a copy of the staff report.
         (d)   Quasi-judicial hearing. Any hearing for a modification or
revocation of a special use permit shall be in the nature of and in accordance
with the requirements for a hearing upon a special use permit application.
After the hearing and in accordance with the provisions of section
9-4-81, the Board of Adjustment may modify the conditions or revoke a special
use permit pursuant to this section (F) and section
9-4-82. The modification or revocation of the special use permit by the Board
of Adjustment after the hearing shall constitute a revocation of the previously
granted special use permit for a bar.
         (e)   Other remedies. The requirements and standards set forth in this
subsection (F)(1) are in addition to other available remedies and nothing
herein shall prohibit the enforcement of applicable codes, ordinances and
regulations as provided by law.
      (2)   Litter/debris. The owner(s) and operator(s) of a bar shall collect
and properly dispose of all litter and debris generated by their establishment
or patrons immediately following the closure of business or not later than 7:00
a.m. each morning following any period of operation. All litter or debris shall
be collected from within the boundaries of the establishment, associated
parking areas, adjacent sidewalks and public rights-of-way or other adjacent
public property open to the public. In addition, the owner(s) and operator(s)
of a bar shall comply with the provisions of
Title 11, Chapter 9 of the City Code.
      (3)   In addition to subsection (F)(2) above, the Board of Adjustment may
establish specific and reasonable litter and trash mitigation standards or
requirements.
      (4)   Ownership. The special use permit shall be issued to the property
owner as listed on the tax records of the county. When the ownership of any
property, which has a special use permit for a bar, is transferred to a new
owner by sale or other means, the new owner shall sign and file with the office
of the Director of Planning and Development Services an acknowledgment of the
rights, conditions and responsibilities of the special use permit prior to
operation of the use under the permit. The acknowledgment shall be made on
forms provided by the planning office.
      (5)   Any bar that has been issued a special use permit by the Board of
Adjustment shall continue under the terms and conditions of the issued special
use permit unless there is a modification or a revocation.
      (6)   No bar located in any district shall be located within a 500-foot
radius of an existing or approved bar as measured from the nearest lot line in
accordance with the following. When a bar is located or to be located on a lot
exclusive to itself, the measurement shall be from the perimeter lot line of
the exclusive lot. When a bar is located or to be located in a separate
structure exclusive to itself on a lot containing multiple uses, the
measurement shall be from the perimeter lot line of the lot containing multiple
uses. When a bar is located or to be located in a common structure with other
uses such as a shopping center on a common lot, the measurement shall be from
the perimeter lot line of the common lot.
      (7)   At the time of special use permit approval, a bar shall not be
located within a 500 foot radius, including street right-of-ways, of (i) a
conforming use single-family dwelling located in any district, or (ii) any
single-family residential zoning district. The required measurement shall be
from the building or structure containing the bar to the nearest single-family
dwelling lot line or single-family residential zoning district boundary line.
For purpose of this section, the term "single-family residential zoning
district" shall include any RA20, R15S, R9S, R6S, and MRS district.
   (G)   Fraternity or sorority.
      (1)   The minimum lot size shall be 20,000 square feet.
      (2)   The gross floor area of the structure or structures shall be no
less than 250 square feet per resident.
      (3)   The total amount of land devoted to structures and parking shall
not exceed 70% of the total lot area.
      (4)   No part of any principal structure or accessory shall be located
within 15 feet of any property line or street right-of-way for new construction
and conversions.
   (H)   Greenhouse or plant nursery.
      (1)   The growing of greenhouse or plant nursery products shall be the
principal use. Retail sales shall be considered an accessory use, provided no
more than 25% of the retail stock of a nursery shall be of products not grown
on the premises.
      (2)   No power equipment, such as gas or electric lawn mowers and farm
implements, may be sold wholesale or retail.
   (I)   Group care facility.
      (1)   The minimum lot size shall be two acres.
      (2)   The principal and accessory use side and rear setbacks shall be 20
feet for new construction in the case of single building development.
      (3)   Multi-family development standards shall apply except as provided
under subsection (I)(2) above.
      (4)   Maximum occupancy shall be in accordance with the North Carolina
State Building Code not to exceed 25 and as provided by definition.
   (J)   Junkyard or automobile graveyard.
      (1)   The use shall be set back at least two times the distance from the
street right-of-way line as required for the district in which it is located.
      (2)   The yard shall be fenced with a visual screen eight feet in height
in order that no junk or automobiles can be seen from the street or surrounding
properties. In no case shall the eight-foot-high fence required by this
subsection be substituted for the fence or vegetation required by the
bufferyard regulations.
   (K)   Manufacture of nonhazardous medical supplies or medical products,
including distribution.
      (1)   The minimum lot size shall be two acres.
      (2)   Exterior storage of materials shall be prohibited.
      (3)   All structures shall be a minimum of 75 feet from all exterior
property lines.
   (L)   Office; professional and business.
      (1)   No more than 50% of the total number of operations located within
the buildings or project may be devoted for business or professional purposes.
All remaining operations shall be those that are permitted uses within the
zoning district.
      (2)   Retail sales, pickup or deliveries of merchandise shall not be made
from the premises and merchandise shall be displayed only within the building.
   (M)   Public utility, building or use.
      (1)   Any proposed use shall maintain a residential appearance to the
greatest possible extent and shall be consistent in scale and environment with
surrounding properties.
      (2)   Any parking area designed to serve more than four vehicles shall be
located in the rear of the principal structure.
   (N)   Radio and television studios, transmission and/or receiving
facilities.
      (1)   The tower base shall be set back from adjoining property lines a
minimum of 20% of the tower height or 30 feet, whichever is greater.
      (2)   Guy wire anchors shall be set back from adjoining property lines in
accordance with the minimum district setbacks.
   (O)   Residential quarters for resident manager or caretaker.
      (1)   The quarters shall be incidental and subordinate to the permitted
or special use.
      (2)   Only the caretaker and his or her immediate family shall
permanently reside in the quarters.
      (3)   The quarters shall be a self-contained dwelling unit.
      (4)   The quarters shall be located within the principal structure except
in the case of a mobile home sales lot, where the residential quarters may be
located in a separate mobile home.
   (P)   Restaurant; conventional or fast food.
      (1)   Except as further provided, whenever a proposed restaurant is to be
located adjacent to a permitted residential use, or a residential zoning
district, the following minimum standards shall be required:
         (a)   The restaurant principal structure shall maintain a public
street (front yard) setback not less than the adjoining residential zoning
district;
         (b)   The restaurant principal structure shall maintain a side and
rear yard setback not less than 25 feet from any property line which abuts a
residential zoning district or a permitted residential use;
         (c)   The maximum height of the restaurant principal and/or accessory
structure(s) shall not exceed 35 feet; and
         (d)   Any exterior menu reader board or order station which contains
an audio speaker(s) shall be set back not less than 50 feet from any side or
rear property line which abuts a permitted residential use or residential
zoning district, and the speaker shall be oriented and directed away from any
adjacent permitted residential use or residential zoning district in a manner
approved by the Director of Planning and Development Services or the Director’s
authorized representative, and the requirements shall be indicated upon an
approved site plan. Separation of the speaker from an adjacent permitted
residential use or residential zoning district by an intervening nonresidential
building or structure of sufficient dimension to negate or block the
transmission of sound may, upon approval of the Director of Planning and
Development Services or representative, substitute for the speaker setback,
orientation and direction standards of this section. No exterior menu reader
board or order station shall be utilized or operated in a manner which
constitutes a nuisance or hazard to the general public.
      (2)   No new restaurant within any MS Zoning District shall be located
within 500 feet of any existing or vested restaurant in any zoning district or
within 1,000 feet of any existing or vested restaurant in any MS District, as
measured between the nearest enclosed structural part of the establishments.
      (3)   Within any MO Zoning District no fast food restaurant shall be
located in a freestanding detached structure exclusive to such use. All fast
food restaurants in any MO Zoning District shall be located within and be part
of an attached multi-unit structure which contains not less than two individual
units occupied by, or are available for sale or lease, to separate
establishments.
(Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006; Ord. No. 21-051, § 3, passed 9-9-2021)
   (Q)   Medical supply sales and rental of medically related products. No
products shall be visible from a public street right-of-way.
   (R)   Mining and quarrying.
      (1)   No mining, quarrying or excavation activity shall occur closer than
100 feet to an adjacent residential dwelling.
      (2)   Access to sites shall be located so as to avoid the routing of
vehicles to and from the operation over streets that primarily serve abutting
residential development. Maintenance of this access shall be the responsibility
of the operator of the site. Measures to control dust along access roads shall
be used as needed to maintain a relatively dust-free operation.
      (3)   Hours of operation may be from 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Monday
through Saturday except as further provided. Hours of operation, at sites where
access is limited to ingress and egress over publicly maintained streets
through areas which are residential in nature, shall be 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
Monday through Friday.
      (4)   A six-foot-high chain link fence shall be located not less than ten
feet from the top edge of any exterior cut slope. Gates, the same height as the
fence, shall be installed at all points of vehicular or pedestrian ingress and
egress and shall be kept locked when not in regular use.
      (5)   Upon completion of mining or quarrying excavation activity, the
land shall be restored to a condition that is suitable and amenable to existing
or prospective uses of surrounding land.
    (S)   Sanitary landfill or incinerator. No refuse shall be deposited and no
building or structure shall be located closer than 100 feet to a property line
or street right-of-way line.
   (T)   Noncommercial park or recreation facility; public or private. No part
of any structure or improvement shall be closer than 50 feet to any part of the
principal structure of an adjacent residential use.
   (U)   Home occupations.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided, all home occupations shall comply
with all of the following standards:
         (a)   Shall only be permitted within single-family dwelling units;
         (b)   Shall not be permitted within any detached accessory structure
or building;
         (c)   Shall constitute an accessory use to the principal use;
         (d)   Shall not occupy more than 20% of the mechanically conditioned
enclosed floor space of the dwelling unit;
         (e)   Shall not employ more than one person other than those persons
legally residing within the principal use dwelling;
         (f)   Shall not be visible from any public right-of-way or adjacent
property line;
         (g)   Shall not involve the on-site sales of products;
         (h)   Shall not involve any outside storage of related materials,
parts or supplies;
         (i)   Shall have signage in accordance with Article N; and
         (j)   Shall not create any hazard or nuisance to the occupants
residing or working within the principal use dwelling or to area residents or
properties.
      (2)   The following permitted limited in-home services and/or business
activities shall not constitute a home occupation and shall be construed as an
incidental accessory residential use within any dwelling, for purposes of
regulation under this chapter, provided that: not more than one person is
engaged in the conduct of the listed activity; the person that is engaged in
the conduct of the activity shall be a permanent resident within the subject
dwelling; not more than two customer/clients shall be allowed on the premises
at any one time; no on-site signage shall be displayed in connection with the
limited in-home service and/or business activity; and the activity is compliant
with characteristics of subsection (U)(1)(b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h) and (j)
above:
         (a)   Music or dance instructor, provided all associated amplified
and/or non-amplified sound is not plainly audible, within any adjacent area
dwelling unit or beyond the adjacent property line;
         (b)   Educational tutoring;
         (c)   Accountant, tax and/or financial advisor, stockbroker;
         (d)   Attorney at law;
         (e)   Counseling, including psychologist, marriage and similar
professional counselor;
         (f)   Doctor, physical therapist or other similar health care
professional;
         (g)   Consultant, including public relations, advertising, computer
science, engineering, architect and other similar professional consultant;
         (h)   Clothes alteration seamstress; excluding garment manufacturing,
shoe repair and sales of clothing items;
         (i)   Catalogue ordering sales consultant business wherein retail
products are ordered by the end customer from a catalogue and/or by reference
to limited samples displayed at off-site locations remote to the business
address;
         (j)   Artist, photographer/videographer, graphic designer, writer;
         (k)   Real estate broker/realtor;
         (l)   Real estate/personal property appraiser;
         (m)   General contractor including building, painting, electrical,
plumbing, mechanical, landscape, and cleaning/janitorial service, excluding any
on-site: physical display and/or storage of products, and materials;
manufacture or assembly; storage of construction or service delivery equipment
including trucks, trailers, excavators, tractors, and mowers of a type and
number uncommon to typical domestic residential use; provided, however, a
personal transportation vehicle customarily associated with residential use
shall be permitted; and
         (n)   The incidental use of any dwelling by the occupant(s) for the
purpose of receiving or transmitting messages or mail, record or bookkeeping
filing, address listing for applicable privilege license or tax identification
and other similar activities, which do not involve the on-site sale, delivery,
distribution, reception, storage or manufacture of goods, products or services.
      (3)   Barber and beauty shop; manicure, pedicure or facial salon; and
other similar personal service activities not otherwise listed: shall be
limited to not more than one operator or service provider at all times.
Concurrent and/or shift employment shall not be permitted.
      (4)   Bed and breakfast inn.
         (a)   Shall be restricted to property that is located both within a R-
6S Zoning District, and within a locally designated Historic District (HD)
Overlay Zoning District.
         (b)   The principal use single-family dwelling structure shall have a
minimum of 3,000 square feet of mechanically conditioned enclosed floor area.
         (c)   Not more than 60% of the total mechanically conditioned enclosed
floor area of the principal use single- family dwelling structure shall be
utilized as part of the bed and breakfast establishment, including guest rooms
and associated baths and closets, guest sitting or lounging areas and other
interior spaces which exclusively serve such areas and rooms. Common areas
utilized by both guests and the resident owner family, including but not
limited to kitchens, dining rooms, foyers, halls, porches and stairs, shall not
count towards the allowable percentage. A dimensional floor plan of the
principal use dwelling shall be included at the time of initial application,
which illustrates compliance with this section.
         (d)   The use shall be conducted completely within the single-family
dwelling and no part of any detached accessory structure or building shall be
devoted to the use; provided, however, a detached garage may be utilized to
fulfill parking requirements.
         (e)   Not more than five rooms devoted to such overnight
accommodations shall be permitted in addition to bathrooms or other common use
areas.
         (f)   All entry and primary exits to the individual tenant occupancy
rooms or common use areas shall be through the principal use dwelling area of
the owner occupant. Other exits as shall be available or required shall only be
utilized by the tenant occupants in the event of an emergency.
         (g)   In addition to the parking requirement of the principal use
dwelling, one off-street parking space shall be required for each allowed
tenant occupancy. No outdoor, unenclosed parking area associated with the
accessory use shall be located in any front yard or any street right-of-way
setback area. Such separate or joint parking facility shall comply with
applicable design and construction standards.
         (h)   The parking area bufferyard, screening and landscaping
requirements for each separate facility shall be established in the individual
case; however, no side or rear bufferyard shall be less than Bufferyard B of
the bufferyard regulations set forth in Article G.
         (i)   The maximum number of days allowed per individual tenancy shall
be limited to applicable State and County Health Department standards, however,
not to exceed 30 continuous days.
         (j)   Commercial cooking facilities shall not be allowed, and
breakfast may only be served between the hours of 5:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m. and
shall be the only meal offered to overnight guests. No persons other than
overnight guests shall be served food and/or beverages for compensation. No
alcoholic permits shall be issued to any such facility.
         (k)   One nonresident person in addition to the resident owner family
may be employed in connection with the operation of the establishment. For
purposes of this section, the term “person” may be construed to include two or
more shift employees, provided the employees are not on simultaneous duty.
         (l)   The principal structure or additions thereto which contain the
accessory use shall maintain a single- family residential character of like
scale and design to adjoining and area properties. A certificate of
appropriateness shall be required prior to alteration of a locally designated
historic property.
         (m)   The single-family dwelling and lot that is converted into a bed
and breakfast inn shall meet the following minimum district requirements for
construction of a new dwelling: lot area, lot width, street frontage, side yard
setback and rear yard setback; provided, however, where the proposed bed and
breakfast inn is located adjacent to a property containing a nonconforming land
use the setback requirements of this subsection shall not apply to that
adjacent common boundary, at the time of initial application and approval. When
a nonconforming adjacent use is converted to a conforming use, at any time
after the initial approval of the bed and breakfast inn, the conversion shall
not affect the continued use and/or renewal of the bed and breakfast inn with
respect to the requirements of this subsection. The minimum lot area, lot width
and lot frontage requirement shall not be reduced in accordance with section
9-4-33, and the minimum requirements set forth in section 9-4-94(E) shall apply
for both new construction or conversion.
         (n)   Room renting, as defined under section
9-4-22, shall not be permitted within any dwelling that contains a bed and
breakfast inn.
         (o)   The owner shall request that the Building Inspector and Zoning
Enforcement Officer conduct an inspection of the premises each year during the
month of original approval for compliance with applicable codes and conditions
of special use permit approval. The owner shall pay any fee associated with the
inspection as may be established by City Council.
         (p)   The special use permit may be approved for a three-year period
and continued use shall be subject to renewal in accordance with original
submission requirements.
   (V)   Retirement center.
      (1)   The minimum lot size shall be two acres.
      (2)   The density requirements of the prevailing zoning district shall
apply.
      (3)   Multi-family development standards shall apply.
   (W)   School. All structures shall maintain side and rear setbacks of 50
feet and a front yard setback at least 25 feet greater than that required for
single-family residences within the district, except as provided in subsection
(1)(g) through (j) herein. Schools may be allowed as a special use in the IU
(Unoffensive Industry) zoning district provided the school complies with the
following additional criteria:
      (1)   The property shall have a minimum of eight acres.
      (2)   The maximum allowed building coverage shall be 40% of the property.
      (3)   The property shall have a minimum public road frontage of 450 feet.
      (4)   All loading and unloading of students shall be off-street.
      (5)   All parking areas shall be off-street in accordance with Article O,
Parking.
      (6)   The school must be authorized by the State of North Carolina.
      (7)   All new structures shall maintain setbacks of 50 feet from property
and public street right-of-way lines.
      (8)   Schools that occupy structures that existed upon the effective date
of this section (August 13, 2015) shall maintain setbacks of 50 feet from
public street right-of-way lines, but are exempt from setbacks from property
lines.
      (9)   The setback exemption in section (h) is not applicable to parcels
created after the effective date of this section (August 13, 2015).
      (10)   Buildings that existed upon the effective date of this section
(August 13, 2015) shall not be expanded within a 50-foot setback from property
and public street right-of-way lines.
   (X)   Stable.
      (1)   No stable shall be erected closer than 100 feet to an existing
dwelling or residential district.
      (2)   Stables shall meet the minimum dimensional setbacks required within
the applicable district except as provided under subsection (X)(1) above.
   (Y)   Boarding house or rooming house.
      (1)   The total number of unrelated occupants in addition to the resident
family shall not exceed four persons.
      (2)   The minimum lot size shall be 9,000 square feet.
      (3)   No boarding house or rooming house shall be located within a 400-
foot radius of another boarding house or rooming house.
      (4)   No more than two required parking spaces may be located in the
front yard.
      (5)   The total amount of land devoted to structures and parking shall
not exceed 70% of the lot area.
      (6)   The use shall be conducted as an accessory use within an owner
occupied single-family dwelling.
   (Z)   Nursing, convalescent or maternity home.
      (1)   Major care facility.
         (a)   The minimum lot size shall be two acres.
         (b)   The side and rear setbacks shall be 20 feet for single building
development for conversion or new construction.
         (c)   The public street setback shall be in accordance with the
prevailing zoning district for conversion or new construction.
         (d)   Multi-family development standards shall apply except as
provided under subsection (Z)(1)(b) and (c) above.
         (e)   Maximum occupancy shall be in accordance with the North Carolina
State Building Code and/or applicable licensing requirements.
      (2)   Minor care facility.
         (a)   The minimum lot size and dimension shall be in accordance with
two-family attached dwelling (duplex) standards for the prevailing zoning
district for conversion or new construction.
         (b)   The minimum setback of any principal structure shall be in
accordance with two-family attached dwelling (duplex) standards for the
prevailing zoning district for conversion or new construction.
         (c)   One parking space shall be required for each resident manager or
other on-site employee in addition to two visitor spaces per facility.
         (d)   Maximum occupancy shall not exceed a total of eight persons,
including up to six resident individuals receiving care and any resident
manager(s).
   (AA)   Shelter for homeless or abused persons.
      (1)   The minimum lot size shall be 15,000 square feet.
      (2)   Maximum occupancy shall be in accordance with the North Carolina
State Building Code.
      (3)   On-site supervision shall be maintained during all hours of
operation.
      (4)   Single-building development shall be in accordance with single-
family standards.
      (5)   Multiple-building development shall be in accordance with multi-
family development standards.
      (6)   Parking shall be required at a ratio of one space per every two
supervisors and one space per each 500 square feet of habitable floor area.
   (BB)   Multi-purpose center.
      (1)   Minimum lot area, width and dimension shall be not less than the
district minimum.
      (2)   Each activity, including the method and extent of operation,
proposed for inclusion at each separate location shall be specifically
considered by the Board of Adjustment. Activities not specifically approved
shall be prohibited.
      (3)   Specifically prohibited uses are set forth by definition.
      (4)   Where specific activities are approved for concurrent operation the
minimum parking requirement shall be the sum total of all spaces required for
all concurrent uses in accordance with Article O.
      (5)   Where specific activities are not approved for concurrent operation
the minimum parking requirement shall be based on the activity which requires
the greatest number of spaces in accordance with Article O.
      (6)   Bufferyards and required vegetation for a Classification III use
shall apply in accordance with Article G.   
   (CC)   Guest house for a college or other institution of higher learning.
      (1)   No “guest house; college and other institutions of higher learning”
shall be located within one-quarter mile of any other “guest house; college and
other institutions of higher learning” as measured to the nearest lot line.
      (2)   The minimum lot area, width and dimension shall be not less than
the district minimums.
      (3)   Not more than three rooms devoted to overnight accommodations shall
be permitted in addition to bathrooms or other common use areas.
      (4)   One bathroom shall be required for the private use of each allowed
tenant occupancy.
      (5)   All entry and primary exits to the individual tenant occupancy
rooms shall be through commons areas. Other exits as shall be available or
required shall only be utilized by the tenant occupants in the event of an
emergency.
      (6)   One off-street parking space shall be required for each allowed
tenant occupancy. Parking areas shall be located and improved in accordance
with Article O.
      (7)   The parking facility bufferyard and landscaping requirements for
each separate facility shall be established in the individual case; however, no
bufferyard shall be less than Bufferyard B of the bufferyard regulations set
forth in Article G.
      (8)   The maximum number of days allowed per individual tenancy shall not
exceed 14 continuous days.
      (9)   Freestanding and wall signage for the use shall not exceed a
combined total of three square feet. Illuminated signs shall not be allowed.
      (10)   The building(s) or additions thereto which contain the use shall
maintain a single-family residential character of like scale and design to
adjoining and area properties.
      (11)   A common kitchen and dining area is permitted; however, no meals
shall be served for compensation.
      (12)   A common social/recreational sitting room accessible to the tenant
occupants and other guests and/or representatives of the associated institution
may be allowed.
      (13)   The special use permit shall terminate upon a change of use and/or
transfer of title.
      (14)   The owner shall request that the Building Inspector conduct an
inspection of the premises each year during the month of original approval for
compliance with applicable codes and conditions of special use permit approval.
The owner shall pay any fee associated with such inspection as may be
established by City Council.
   (DD)   Church or place of worship. The special use permit shall be valid for
36 months from the date of the order granting the permit. From and after 36
months, the permit shall be considered void and of no effect and any reuse or
continuance of use under this section shall be subject to reapplication and
special use permit approval in accordance with current requirements.
   (EE)   Billiard parlor or pool hall.
      (1)   A special use permit granted under this section shall be for a
period of one year and must be renewed annually.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner/operator to make timely
application for permit renewal.
   (FF)   Convention center; private. Convention centers (private) shall, in
addition to other applicable requirements for the district and use, meet the
following minimum standard(s) when located within any O and/or OR District.
Minimum lot area: ten acres.
   (GG)   Athletic club; outdoor facilities. With the exception of pedestrian
walkways and fitness trails, no portion of any outdoor activity or recreation
area shall be located within 100 feet of any residential zoning district
boundary. Street rights-of-way shall count toward this requirement.
   (HH)   Adult day care facilities.
      (1)   The minimum lot size shall be increased by a ratio of 100 square
feet per adult in excess of five.
      (2)   All accessory structures, including but not limited to exercise or
recreation equipment and pools, must be located in the rear yard.
      (3)   If located in a residential district, a residential appearance of
the site shall be maintained to the greatest possible extent.
      (4)   Employee parking shall be at the rear of the structure when a day
care facility is located in a residential district.
   (II)   Office and school supply, equipment sales. Shall not exceed 5,000
square feet of gross enclosed floor area per each individual establishment,
including all associated principal and accessory structures.
   (JJ)   Hobby or craft shop. Shall not exceed 5,000 square feet of gross
enclosed floor area per each individual establishment including all associated
principal and accessory structures.
   (KK)   Dry cleaning; household users, drop-off/pick-up station only.
      (1)   Shall not include any on-site laundry or dry cleaning process,
activity or facility including but not limited to washing, cleaning, drying,
pressing, mending, alteration, sale of apparel or laundry supplies.
      (2)   Shall not exceed 2,000 square feet of gross enclosed floor area per
each individual establishment including all associated principal and accessory
structures.
   (LL)   Building supply; lumber and material sales, plumbing and/or
electrical supply including outside storage.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment may attach additional reasonable screening
conditions to any perimeter property boundary when the Board determines that
the proposed outside storage area and use would otherwise be incompatible with,
and detrimental to, adjacent and area land uses absent such additional
screening.
      (2)   Required screening may be accomplished by a solid wood fence,
masonry wall, earth berm, evergreen vegetation, enclosed structure or
combination thereof. Vegetation utilized for this purpose shall comply with
Article P.
      (3)   The requirements of this section shall be in addition to the
applicable bufferyard and planting requirements set out under Article G and
Article P; provided, however, that qualified existing and planted vegetation
shall be credited and count toward applicable requirements.
   (MM)   Dormitory development within the CD District.
      (1)   Minimum habitable (mechanically conditioned) floor area per each
bedroom: 200 square feet. For purposes of this requirement, the term “floor
area” shall include private living spaces and any connected common living
spaces associated with the subject bedroom, provided however the common living
space allocation devoted to a bedroom shall not qualify for or count toward the
minimum floor area requirement of any other bedroom.
      (2)   Minimum lot area: None.
      (3)   Minimum lot width: None.
      (4)   Minimum street, side and rear yard setbacks: None.
      (5)   Minimum parking requirement: One-half space per bedroom.
      (6)   Parking location requirements:
         (a)   Each required parking space shall be located:
            1.   On the lot containing the associated residential use;
            2.   Within a remote parking facility located within 800 feet of
the use it is intended to serve, as measured with and along an improved
pedestrian path from the most distant parking space to the building entrance;
or
            3.   Within a remote parking facility located in a Downtown
Commercial (CD) District.
         (b)   Such remote parking facility shall be in accordance with the
applicable provisions of Article O.
      (7)   Off-street parking: All off-street parking areas designed for three
or more spaces shall be in accordance with Article O.
      (8)   Preservation design: In order to protect the architectural
integrity of existing buildings within the CD Zoning District, and in so doing
to preserve the continuity of scale and design within those areas, the
following requirements shall be met:
         (a)   All slip covers previously applied to the facade of existing
buildings shall be removed.
         (b)   All canopies, except for those made of canvas, shall be removed
from the facade.
         (c)   Where evidence exists of original windows and door openings
subsequently enclosed, the windows and doors shall be reopened in an operable
manner and in a style in keeping with the building. Where other unique
architectural features remain, including cornices, mid-cornices and window
surrounds, they shall be repaired and/or replaced with elements of like design.
         (d)   Nothing in this subsection shall supersede applicable North
Carolina State Building Code requirements.
      (9)   Maximum residential occupancy limits:
         (a)   Residential occupancy within dormitory units shall be limited to
one bed per each bedroom and one person per each bedroom.
         (b)   Residential occupancy within dwelling units shall be limited to
one family per each dwelling unit.
      (10)   Signage: All signs shall be erected in accordance with Article N
of this chapter, but in no event shall a sign be mounted over existing windows,
doors or other architectural features described in subsection (MM)(8)(c) above.
      (11)   Residential and nonresidential uses allowed: Subject to district
standards, and requirements, development allowed under this section may include
both residential and nonresidential use.
   (MM-1)   Dormitory development within the CDF-UC District.
      (1)   Maximum single and double occupancy limits shall comply with the
following minimum habitable (mechanically conditioned) floor area per each
bedroom. For purposes of these requirements, the term “floor area” shall
include private living spaces and any connected common living spaces associated
with subject bedroom, provided however the common living space allocation
devoted to a bedroom shall not qualify for or count toward the minimum floor
area requirement of any other bedrooms:
         (a)   Single residential occupancy within dormitory units shall be
limited to one bed per each bedroom and one person per each bedroom having a
minimum floor area of 200 square feet.
         (b)   Double residential occupancy within dormitory units shall be
limited to two beds per each bedroom and two persons each bedroom having a
minimum floor area of 400 square feet.
      (2)   Dormitory development within the CDF-UC District shall provide
retail sales and/or other non-residential uses with a minimum floor area of
10,000 square feet. For purposes of this requirement, the term “floor area”
shall mean non-storage floor area which is used as retail sales, or other non-
residential uses. Where architectural layouts are not available for
consideration, the “floor area” will be calculated by multiplying 80% times the
gross area designated as non-residential use until such time architectural
layouts are available for consideration or occupancy has commenced, whichever
is earlier.
      (3)   Minimum lot area: 2.0 acres.
      (4)   Minimum lot width: 100 feet.
      (5)   Minimum street setback: five feet.
      (6)   Minimum side and rear setbacks:
         (a)   When adjacent to single-family use: ten feet.
         (b)   When adjacent to any use other than single-family; per Article
G, Bufferyard setback.
      (7)   Maximum height (above grade): none.
      (8)   Maximum lot coverage (excluding drives and parking): none.
      (9)   Minimum parking requirements.
         (a)   Single residential occupancy: Seventy-five hundredths space per
bed.
         (b)   Double residential occupancy: One and one-half space per
bedroom.
         (c)   Non-residential uses: The required number of parking spaces for
non-residential uses shall be provided in accordance with Article O, except as
modified herein. The parking requirements set forth in Article O for non-
residential uses may be reduced to 25% where combined parking is available for
the non- residential user. For purposes of this section, the term “combined
parking” shall be that parking with is part of the required residential parking
that is available and accessible to the non-residential user.
      (10)   Parking location requirements: Each required parking space shall
be located on the lot containing the associated use.
      (11)   Parking spaces adjacent to principal or other structures including
accessory structures per section
9-4-251(B)(9): The minimum separation requirement may be reduced at the option
of the owner to not less than five feet.
      (12)   Off-street parking: All off-street parking areas designed for
three or more spaces shall be in accordance with Article O except as modified
in section
9-4-200.1(B)(6).
      (13)   Site vegetation location requirements per section
9-4-268(J)(1) may be modified for dormitory developments whereby, with the
exception of street yard trees, site vegetation shall not be located within two
feet of a principal and/or accessory structure in order to meet vegetation
requirements.
      (14)   Signage: All signs shall be erected in accordance with Article N
of this chapter.
      (15)   Residential and nonresidential uses allowed: Subject to district
standards, and requirements, development allowed under this section may include
both residential and nonresidential use.
      (16)   Nothing in this subsection shall supersede applicable North
Carolina State Building and Code requirements.
   (NN)   Mental health, emotional or physical rehabilitation center.
      (1)   Multi-family development standards shall apply when located in the
OR zoning district.
      (2)   Each three client occupants or major fraction thereof, in addition
to any resident manager and blood relatives to the resident manager, shall
constitute one dwelling unit for determining allowable density under this
section.
   (OO)   Beekeeping; major use.
      (1)   The standards, requirements, conditions and restrictions of section
12-2-27(c) shall apply for locations and uses both within the city limits and
within the extraterritorial jurisdiction.
      (2)   In addition to section (1) above the Board of Adjustment may
require reasonable additional conditions as determined appropriate by the Board
in the particular case.
   (PP)   Solar energy facility.
      (1)   Setbacks. Solar energy facilities and their appurtenant components
and structures shall be a minimum of 50 feet from all property lines, and one-
hundred feet from any residence. Inverters shall be a minimum of 150 feet from
any residence.
      (2)   Height requirements. Individual modules/panels shall be a maximum
of 25 feet in height as measured from the grade at the base of the structure to
the apex of the structure.
      (3)   Site plan. A site plan, drawn and stamped by a North Carolina
licensed surveyor or engineer, shall be submitted showing the following:
         (a)   A narrative describing the proposed solar energy facility
including an overview of the project;
         (b)   The proposed location and dimensions of all solar panels,
inverters, existing and proposed structures, screening, fencing, property
lines, turnout locations, ancillary equipment, transmission lines, vegetation
and the location of any residence within 100 feet of the perimeter of the
facility;
         (c)   Any preexisting structures on the same lot and principal
structures on other properties that would affect the placement of solar panels;
         (d)   Parking and access areas;
         (e)   Location of any proposed solar access easements;
         (f)   Location where wiring is brought together for inter-connection
to system components and/or the local utility power grid, and location of
disconnect switch;
         (g)   Standard drawings of the solar collection system components;
         (h)   Security fencing, a minimum of six feet in height, shall be
provided along the entire perimeter of the facility;
         (i)   The entire perimeter of the facility shall be screened from
adjoining properties by a ten foot buffer yard. The buffer yard shall consist
of nine evergreen trees or shrubs per 100 linear feet or fraction thereof. The
vegetation shall comply with §
9-4-267;
         (j)   Copies of any lease agreement and solar access easement(s);
         (k)   Evidence that the electrical utility provider has been informed
of the customer’s intent to install an interconnected, customer-owned generator
(off-grid systems shall be exempt from this requirement);
         (l)   Decommissioning plans that describe the anticipated life of the
facility, the estimated decommissioning costs in current dollars, and the
anticipated manner in which the facility will be decommissioned and the site
restored;
         (m)   Signature of the property owner(s) and the owner/operator of the
facility (if different than the property owner); and
         (n)   Other relevant studies, reports, certifications, and approvals
as may be reasonably requested by the City of Greenville to ensure compliance
with this article.
      (4)   Location. Solar energy facilities will be permitted only in the RA-
20 (Residential -Agricultural) zoning district on a parcel (or parcels)
containing a minimum of 30 acres as a special use as permitted by the City of
Greenville Board of Adjustment.
      (5)   Other requirements.
         (a)   Development of a solar energy facility will be subject to other
overlay district regulations including watershed impervious surface limits.
         (b)   Solar energy facilities shall be fully screened from adjoining
properties and adjacent roads by an evergreen buffer capable of reaching a
height of six feet within three years of planting, with at least 75% opacity at
the time of planting.
         (c)   All outdoor lighting shall be shielded to direct light and glare
onto the system’s premises and may be of sufficient intensity to ensure
security.
         (d)   Any electrical wiring used in the system shall be underground
(trenched) except where wiring is brought together for inter-connection to
system components and/or the local utility power grid.
         (e)   Solar panels shall be mounted onto a pole, rack or suitable
foundation, in accordance with manufacturer specifications, in order to ensure
the safe operation and stability of the system. The mounting structure (fixed
or tracking capable) shall be comprised of materials approved by the
manufacturer, which are able to fully support the system components and
withstand adverse weather conditions.
         (f)   Multiple mounting structures shall be spaced apart at the
distance recommended by the manufacturer to ensure safety and maximum
efficiency.
         (g)   No ground-mounted large solar energy systems shall be affixed to
a block wall or fence.
         (h)   No signage shall be permitted on the perimeter fence, with the
exception of one sign not to exceed 32 square feet that displays the name,
address and emergency contact information of the facility as well as
appropriate warning signs.
         (i)   All obsolete or unused systems shall be removed. Any structure
or equipment associated with the solar farm that is not operated for a
continuous period of 365 days shall be considered obsolete or unused system.
         (j)   Any lease agreement, solar access easement, and plan for removal
of system/equipment shall be provided to the Planning and Development Services
Director or designee. If the system is to be interconnected to the local
utility power grid, a copy of the conditional approval from the local utility
must also be provided before a special use permit will be granted.
         (k)   The solar energy facility and components shall meet all
requirements of the North Carolina State Building Code.
         (l)   The solar energy facility and components shall comply with the
current edition of the National Electrical Code; UL listed, and be designed
with an anti-reflective coating.
         (m)   The electrical disconnect switch shall be clearly identified and
unobstructed, and shall be noted clearly on the site plan.
         (n)   The owner or future owner of a property onto which a solar farm
is installed assumes all risk associated with diminished performance of said
system caused by any present or future adjacent structure or landscaping that
may interfere with the system’s ability to produce power at its rated capacity,
regardless of when that adjacent structure or landscaping is constructed or
installed.
         (o)   Inverter noise shall not exceed 40 dBA, measured at the property
line.
         (p)   Other conditions, including, but not limited to, buffering and
noise controls that provide adequate protection for adjacent residential
properties as may be deemed reasonable and appropriate for the type of system,
may be added by the City of Greenville Board of Adjustment.
   (QQ)   Microbrewery (see also section 
9-4-22).
      (1)   The principal use is the production of malt beverages for retail
sales for on-premises and off-premises consumption in accordance with ABC
permit requirements set forth in G.S. 18B1001 as amended and issuance of on-
premises malt beverage permit for breweries as authorized by G.S. 18B-1104 as
amended and all other laws pursuant to G.S. 18B, as amended.
      (2)   Accessory uses may include and be limited only to: retail sales;
food and beverage consumption; entertainment; games; a tasting room; event
room; and loading area.
      (3)   The portion of the building devoted to operating brewing equipment
shall not exceed 5,000 square feet.
      (4)   A minimum of 30% of the microbrewery's floor area shall have
operating brewing equipment that produces beer for retail sales. This
percentage shall be satisfied at the time a Certificate of Occupancy inspection
is conducted and shall be maintained thereafter.
      (5)   In addition to compliance with the noise control standards in Title
5, Chapter 5 of the City Code, exterior guest areas shall not have amplified
sound equipment within 150 feet from any residential use as measured from the
property line of the residential use to the exterior area where the speaker
equipment is located.
      (6)   (a)   Annual review. A special use permit for a microbrewery is
subject to annual review in accordance with the provisions of this subsection
(QQ)(6). Nothing herein shall prohibit or restrict the authority of the Board
of Adjustment to modify, rescind or revoke a special use permit for a
microbrewery in accordance with the provisions of section
9-4-83.
         (b)   Reporting. At the regular January meeting of the Board of
Adjustment, the Director of Planning and Development Services or their
authorized representative shall present to the Board of Adjustment a written
staff report of any violation that has been issued for which the annual review
shall include a finding of one or more instances of noncompliance with
applicable laws, codes and ordinances, including but not limited to noise
regulations, litter control regulations, fire codes, building codes, nuisance
and public safety regulations, and special use permit conditions of approval.
If the Board of Adjustment votes to hold a modification or revocation of the
special use permit, the property owner and permit holder, if applicable, as
specified under subsection (QQ)(10) below, shall be provided notice of the
meeting and a copy of the staff report.
         (c)   Noncompliance; and modification or revocation. Staff may request
for the Board of Adjustment to hold a hearing for a modification or revocation
of a special use permit for any establishment that has enforcement actions for
numerous violations of one or more instances of noncompliance with applicable
laws, codes and ordinances including Notices of Violation and/or numerous calls
for service from City departments such as Police, Fire, Public Works, or
Planning & Development Services, not limited to noise regulations, litter
control regulations, fire codes, building codes, nuisance and public safety
regulations, notices of violations and special use permit conditions at any
time. The property owner and permit holder, if applicable, as specified under
subsection (QQ)(10) below, shall be provided notice of the meeting and a copy
of the staff report.
         (d)   Quasi-judicial hearing. Any hearing for a modification or
revocation of a special use permit shall be in the nature of and in accordance
with the requirements for a hearing upon a special use permit application.
After the hearing and in accordance with the provisions of section 9-4-81, the
Board of Adjustment may the special use permit pursuant to this subsection (QQ)
and section 94-82. The modification or revocation of the special use permit by
the Board of Adjustment after the hearing shall constitute a revocation of the
previously granted special use permit for a microbrewery.
         (e)   Other remedies. The requirements and standards set forth in this
subsection (QQ) are in addition to other available remedies and nothing herein
shall prohibit the enforcement of applicable codes, ordinances and regulations
as provided by law.
      (7)   Malt beverages produced for retail sales for on-premises and off-
premises consumption shall comply with ABC permit requirements set forth in
G.S. 18B-1001 as amended and issuance of on-premises malt beverage permit for
breweries as authorized by G.S. 18B-1104 as amended and all other laws pursuant
to G.S. 18B as amended.
      (8)   Litter/debris. The owner(s) and operator(s) of a microbrewery shall
collect and properly dispose of all litter and debris generated by their
establishment or patrons immediately following the closure of business or not
later than 7:00 a.m. each morning following any period of operation. All litter
or debris shall be collected from within the boundaries of the establishment,
associated parking areas, adjacent sidewalks and public rights-of-way or other
adjacent public property open to the public. In addition, the owner(s) and
operator(s) of a microbrewery shall comply with the provisions of Title 11,
Chapter 9 of the City Code.
      (9)   In addition to subsection (QQ)(8) above, the Board of Adjustment
may establish specific and reasonable litter and trash mitigation standards or
requirements.
      (10)   Ownership and/or permit holder. The special use permit shall be
issued to the property owner as listed on the tax records of the county or to
the person/entity that has been authorized by the property owner via the
special use permit application, herein referred to as the permit holder. When
the ownership of any property, which has a special use permit for a
microbrewery is transferred to a new owner by sale or other means, the new
owner shall sign and file with the office of the Director of Planning and
Development Services an acknowledgment of the rights, conditions and
responsibilities of the special use permit prior to operation of the use under
the permit. The acknowledgment shall be made on forms provided by the planning
office.
      (11)   Any microbrewery that has been issued a special use permit by the
Board of Adjustment shall continue under the terms and conditions of the issued
special use permit unless there is a modification or a revocation.
      (12)   A bar may add, subject to an approved special use permit, a state
ABC permit and a local beer and wine license, if required, a microbrewery
operation as an accessory use provided it complies with the following:
         (a)   The area of the bar devoted to operating the brewing equipment
shall not exceed 49% of the area of the bar including the area devoted to the
operating the brewing equipment.
   (RR)   Live performance theater (see also section
9-4-22).
      (1)   Events and/or banquets must be ticketed or free of charge to
participants. No cover charges can be required for events.
      (2)   The following ticketed events shall be permitted: concerts, plays,
motion pictures operas, musicals, ballets, other forms of modern dance.
      (3)   As an accessory use the facility may host private banquets and
meetings.
      (4)   The following activities shall not be permitted at the theater:
televised events, disc jockey-based events, dance parties, raves, house music-
based events, outdoor events or outdoor amplified music.
      (5)   Recorded music events may be held by touring acts provided the same
act does not return to the venue more than three times per calendar year. The
maximum percentage of recorded music events shall not exceed 30% of total shows
held per calendar year.
      (6)   May have as an ancillary or accessory use a full service bar which
is only open to patrons of ticketed events, private banquets or meetings and is
limited to operate only during the hours the above listed permitted ticketed
events, private banquets or meetings are being held.
      (7)   The facility shall not operate as a bar as defined by Title Chapter
4, Article B, Section
9-4-22.
      (8)   Minimum square footage of live performance theaters shall be 7,500
square feet.
      (9)   The facility shall have a fixed permanent stage platform of 800
square feet minimum.
      (10)   Accessory retail sales shall be permitted for the sale of theater
or event related items.
      (11)   The portion of the building devoted to live performances may have
open or fixed seating.
      (12)   Closing time shall be no later than 1:00 A.M.
      (13)   (a)   A special use permit for a live performance theater is
subject to revocation in accordance with the provisions of this subsection
(10). Nothing herein shall prohibit or restrict the authority of the Board of
Adjustment to rescind or revoke a special use permit for a live performance
theater in accordance with the provisions of section
9-4-83.
         (b)   An annual review shall be conducted by the Director of Planning
and Development Services or his or her authorized representative of a live
performance theater which has received a special use permit for the purpose of
determining and ensuring compliance with applicable laws, codes and ordinances,
including but not limited to noise regulations, litter control regulations,
fire codes, building codes, nuisance and public safety regulations, and special
use permit conditions of approval. The findings of the Director of Planning and
Development Services or his or her authorized representative as a result of
this annual review shall be compiled in a written staff report.
         (c)   At a meeting of the Board of Adjustment, the Director of
Planning and Development Services or his or her authorized representative shall
present to the Board of Adjustment the staff report of a live performance
theater for which the annual review includes a finding of one or more instances
of noncompliance with applicable laws, codes and ordinances, including but not
limited to noise regulations, litter control regulations, fire codes, building
codes, nuisance and public safety regulations, and special use permit
conditions of approval. The special use permit holder shall be provided notice
of the meeting and a copy of the staff report.
         (d)   Based on the staff report, the Board of Adjustment, by a
majority vote, may either determine that a rehearing is not required for the
special use permit or order a rehearing on the special use permit.
            1.   An order for a rehearing shall be based upon a determination
by the Board of Adjustment that either:
               a.   The use of the property is inconsistent with the approved
application;
               b.   The use is not in full compliance with all specific
requirements set out in this chapter;
               c.   The use is not compliant with the specific criteria
established for the issuance of a special use permit including conditions and
specifications, health and safety, detriment to public welfare, existing uses
detrimental, injury to properties or improvements, and nuisance or hazard; or
               d.   The use is not compliant with any additional conditions of
approval established by the Board and set out in the order granting the permit.
            2.    The rehearing shall be in the nature of and in accordance
with the requirements for a hearing upon a special use permit application.
After the rehearing and in accordance with the provisions of section
9-4-81, the Board of Adjustment may grant a special use permit with conditions
imposed pursuant to this subsection (RR) and section 9-482 or deny the special
use permit. The grant or denial of the special use permit by the Board of
Adjustment after the rehearing shall constitute a revocation of the previously
granted special use permit for a live performance theater.
         (e)   The requirements and standards set forth in this subsection (RR)
(10) are in addition to other available remedies and nothing herein shall
prohibit the enforcement of applicable codes, ordinances and regulations as
provided by law.
   (SS)   Wine, beer and keg stores (see also section
9-4-22).
      (1)   A wine and beer store that also has the requisite state permit(s)
that allows retail sales of wine and malt beverages for on-premises
consumption, in accordance with G.S. Chapter 18B as amended, may sell wine and
malt beverages for consumption on the premises, provided that the on-premises
consumption of wine and malt beverages constitutes an accessory and incidental
use to the primary retail use of the wine and beer store.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, on-premises consumption of
unfortified wine is allowed provided the sale of wine for consumption on the
premises does not exceed 40% of the wine store's total sales including both on-
premises and off-premises consumption for any 30-day period. The term "sale(s)"
means any transfer, trade, exchange, or barter, in any manner or by any means,
for consideration.
      (3)   In addition to compliance with the noise control standards in Title
5, Chapter 5 of the City Code, exterior guest areas shall not have amplified
sound equipment within 150 feet from any residential use as measured from the
property line of the residential use to the exterior area where the speaker
equipment is located.
      (4)   (a)   Annual review. A special use permit for a wine and beer store
is subject to annual review in accordance with the provisions of this
subsection (SS)(4). Nothing herein shall prohibit or restrict the authority of
the Board of Adjustment to modify or revoke a special use permit for a wine and
beer store in accordance with the provisions of section
9-4-83.
         (b)   Reporting. At the regular January meeting of the Board of
Adjustment, the Director of Planning and Development Services or their
authorized representative shall present to the Board of Adjustment a written
staff report of any violation citations that has been issued for which the
annual review shall include a finding of one or more instances of noncompliance
with applicable laws, codes and ordinances, including but not limited to noise
regulations, litter control regulations, fire codes, building codes, nuisance
and public safety regulations, and special use permit conditions of approval.
If the Board of Adjustment votes to hold a modification or revocation of the
special use permit, the property owner and permit holder, if applicable, shall
be provided notice of the meeting and a copy of the staff report.
         (c)   Noncompliance; and modification or revocation. Staff may request
for the Board of Adjustment to hold a hearing for a modification or revocation
of a special use permit for any establishment that has enforcement actions for
numerous violations citations of one or more instances of noncompliance with
applicable laws, codes and ordinances including notices of violation and/or
numerous calls for service from City departments such as Police, Fire, Public
Works, or Planning & Development Services, not limited to noise regulations,
litter control regulations, fire codes, building codes, nuisance and public
safety regulations, notices of violations and special use permit conditions at
any time. The property owner and permit holder, if applicable, shall be
provided notice of the meeting and a copy of the staff report.
         (d)   Quasi-judicial hearing. Any hearing for a modification or
revocation of a special use permit shall be in the nature of and in accordance
with the requirements for a hearing upon a special use permit application.
After the hearing and in accordance with the provisions of section
9-4-81, the Board of Adjustment may grant or deny the special use permit
pursuant to this subsection (SS)(4)(d) and section
9-4-82. The modification or revocation of the special use permit by the Board
of Adjustment after the hearing shall constitute a revocation of the previously
granted special use permit for a wine and beer store.
         (e)   Other remedies. The requirements and standards set forth in this
Section (SS) are in addition to other available remedies and nothing herein
shall prohibit the enforcement of applicable codes, ordinances and regulations
as provided by law.
      (5)   Litter/Debris. The owner(s) and operator(s) of a wine and beer
store shall collect and properly dispose of all litter and debris generated by
their establishment or patrons immediately following the closure of business or
not later than 7:00 a.m. each morning following any period of operation. All
litter or debris shall be collected from within the boundaries of the
establishment, associated parking areas, adjacent sidewalks and public rights-
of-way or other adjacent public property open to the public. In addition, the
owner(s) and operator(s) of a wine and beer store shall comply with the
provisions of Title 11, Chapter 9 of the City Code.
      (6)   In addition to subsection (SS)(5) above, the Board of Adjustment
may establish specific and reasonable litter and trash mitigation standards or
requirements.
      (7)   Ownership and/or permit holder. The special use permit shall be
issued to the property owner as listed on the tax records of the county or to
the person/entity that has been authorized by the property owner via the
special use permit application, herein referred to as the permit holder. When
the ownership of any property, which has a special use permit for a wine and
beer store, is transferred to a new owner by sale or other means, the new owner
shall sign and file with the office of the Director of Planning and Development
Services an acknowledgment of the rights, conditions and responsibilities of
the special use permit prior to operation of the use under the permit. The
acknowledgment shall be made on forms provided by the planning office.
      (8)   Any wine and beer store that has been issued a special use permit
by the Board of Adjustment shall continue under the terms and conditions of the
issued special use permit unless there is a modification or a revocation.
      (9)   The provisions of this section shall apply to all wine and beer
stores whether operated as a principal or accessory use.
   (TT)   Temporary sand mining (see also section
9-4-22).
      (1)   No excavation shall occur closer than 100 feet to an adjacent
residential dwelling.
      (2)   A 50 foot buffer (minimum) shall be maintained between the mining
activity and adjacent property lines.
      (3)   The borrow site shall be directly related to a designated and
approved NC Department of Transportation (NCDOT) highway construction project.
      (4)   The duration of the borrow material excavation and use of the
borrow site for excavation shall be limited to the completion of the NCDOT
highway construction project.
      (5)   Upon completion of the NCDOT highway construction project, the
borrow site shall be reclaimed in accordance with NCDOT requirements, and shall
result in the creation of a recreational water body (lake or pond).
      (6)   The borrow site shall have direct access to a primary highway and
that highway shall be utilized for the transport of borrow materials from the
excavation area in order to minimize the use of secondary roads or residential
streets for this purpose.
      (7)   No blasting shall be permitted in conjunction with the borrow
material excavation or borrow site.
      (8)   Any dust or other airborne emissions shall be minimized from the
borrow material excavation and excavation area, whether at the borrow site or
during transport of borrow materials over the haul route from the site in
accordance with NCDOT regulations.
      (9)   All loads of borrow material shall be covered when leaving the
borrow site for transport over roadways.
      (10)   All trucks used for transport of borrow material from the
excavation site shall be registered, licensed and meet emissions standards for
the State of North Carolina.
      (11)   A gravel construction entrance shall be installed and maintained
at the borrow site to prevent the tracking of borrow materials onto the
roadways from the site, in accordance with NCDOT regulations.
      (12)    Hours of operation at the borrow site shall be limited to 6:30
a.m. to 7:30 p.m. Monday through Saturday.
      (13)   In order to protect the integrity and safety of roadways, trucks
leaving the borrow site shall comply with all weight and load requirements for
North Carolina roadways.
      (14)   A six-foot earthen berm shall be installed and maintained in the
excavation buffer area where no naturally wooded or vegetative screening exists
between the borrow site and adjacent residential uses. This berm may be removed
at the conclusion of the borrow site activity.
   (UU)   Microdistillery (see also section
9-4-22). 
      (1)   The principal use is the production of spirituous liquor for retail
sales for on-premises and off-premises consumption in accordance with ABC
permit requirements set forth in G.S. 18B1001 as amended and issuance of on-
premises spirituous liquor permit for distilleries as authorized by G.S. 18B-
1105 as amended and all other laws pursuant to G.S. l8B as amended.
      (2)   Accessory uses may include and be limited only to: retail sales;
food and beverage consumption; entertainment; games; a tasting room; event
room; and loading area.
      (3)   The portion of the building devoted to operating distilling
equipment shall not exceed 5,000 square feet.
      (4)   A minimum of 30% of the microdistillery's floor area shall have
operating distilling equipment that produces spirituous liquor for retail
sales. This percentage shall be satisfied at the time a Certificate of
Occupancy inspection is conducted and shall be maintained thereafter.
      (5)   In addition to compliance with the noise control standards in Title
5, Chapter 5 of the City Code, exterior guest areas shall not have amplified
sound equipment within 150 feet from any residential use as measured from the
property line of the residential use to the exterior area where the speaker
equipment is located.
      (6)   (a)    Annual review. A special use permit for a microdistillery is
subject to annual review in accordance with the provisions of this subsection
(UU)(6). Nothing herein shall prohibit or restrict the authority of the Board
of Adjustment to modify, rescind or revoke a special use permit for a
microbrewery in accordance with the provisions of section
9-4-83.
         (b)   Reporting. At the regular January meeting of the Board of
Adjustment, the Director of Planning and Development Services or their
authorized representative shall present to the Board of Adjustment a written
staff report of any violation that has been issued for which the annual review
shall include a finding of one or more instances of noncompliance with
applicable laws, codes and ordinances, including but not limited to noise
regulations, litter control regulations, fire codes, building codes, nuisance
and public safety regulations, and special use permit conditions of approval.
If the Board of Adjustment votes to hold a modification or revocation of the
special use permit, the property owner and permit holder, if applicable, as
specified under subsection (UU)(10) below, shall be provided notice of the
meeting and a copy of the staff report.
         (c)   Noncompliance; and modification or revocation. Staff may request
for the Board of Adjustment to hold a hearing for a modification or revocation
of a special use permit for any establishment that has enforcement actions for
numerous violations of one or more instances of noncompliance with applicable
laws, codes and ordinances including Notices of Violation and/or numerous calls
for service from City departments such as Police, Fire, Public Works, or
Planning & Development Services, not limited to noise regulations, litter
control regulations, fire codes, building codes, nuisance and public safety
regulations, notices of violations and special use permit conditions at any
time. The property owner, and permit holder, if applicable, as specified under
subsection (UU)(10) below, shall be provided notice of the meeting and a copy
of the staff report.
         (d)   Quasi-judicial hearing. Any hearing for a modification or
revocation of a special use permit shall be in the nature of and in accordance
with the requirements for a hearing upon a special use permit application.
After the hearing and in accordance with the provisions of section 9-4-81, the
Board of Adjustment may the special use permit pursuant to this subsection (UU)
and section
9-4-82. The modification or revocation of the special use permit by the Board
of Adjustment after the hearing shall constitute a revocation of the previously
granted special use permit for a microdistillery.
         (e)   Other remedies. The requirements and standards set forth in this
subsection (UU) are in addition to other available remedies and nothing herein
shall prohibit the enforcement of applicable codes, ordinances and regulations
as provided by law.
      (7)   Spirituous liquor produced for retail sales for on-premises and
off-premises consumption shall comply with ABC permit requirements set forth in
G.S. 18B-1001 as amended and issuance of on-premises spirituous liquor permit
for distilleries as authorized by G.S. 18B-1105 as amended and all other laws
pursuant to G.S.18B as amended.
      (8)   Litter/debris. The owner(s) and operator(s) of a microbrewery shall
collect and properly dispose of all litter and debris generated by their
establishment or patrons immediately following the closure of business or not
later than 7:00 a.m. each morning following any period of operation. All litter
or debris shall be collected from within the boundaries of the establishment,
associated parking areas, adjacent sidewalks and public rights-of-way or other
adjacent public property open to the public. In addition, the owner(s) and
operator(s) of a microbrewery shall comply with the provisions of Title 11,
Chapter 9 of the City Code.
      (9)   In addition to subsection (UU)(8) above, the Board of Adjustment
may establish specific and reasonable litter and trash mitigation standards or
requirements.
      (10)   Ownership and/or permit holder. The special use permit shall be
issued to the property owner as listed on the tax records of the county or to
the person/entity that has been authorized by the property owner via the
special use permit application, herein referred to as the permit holder. When
the ownership of any property, which has a special use permit for a
microdistillery is transferred to a new owner by sale or other means, the new
owner shall sign and file with the office of the Director of Planning and
Development Services an acknowledgment of the rights, conditions and
responsibilities of the special use permit prior to operation of the use under
the permit. The acknowledgment shall be made on forms provided by the planning
office.
      (11)   Any microdistillery that has been issued a special use permit by
the Board of Adjustment shall continue under the terms and conditions of the
issued special use permit unless there is a modification or a revocation.
      (12)   A bar may add, subject to an approved special use permit, a state
ABC permit, and a local beer and wine license, if required, a microdistillery
operation as an accessory use provided it complies with the following:
         (a)   The area of the bar devoted to operating the distilling
equipment shall not exceed 49% of the area of the bar including the area
devoted to the operating the distilling equipment.
   (VV)   Bar 2022.
      (1)   (a)   Annual review. A special use permit for a bar 2022 is subject
to annual review in accordance with the provisions of this section (VV).
Nothing herein shall prohibit or restrict the authority of the Board of
Adjustment to modify, rescind or revoke a special use permit for a bar 2022 in
accordance with the provisions of section
9-4-83.
         (b)   Control of premises. It shall be unlawful for any permit holder
to relinquish control of a bar 2022 to any person except an on-site manager.
The permit holder or an on-site manager must remain on and in control of the
premises during all events, including private parties.
         (c)   Reporting. At the regular January meeting of the Board of
Adjustment, the Director of Planning and Development Services or their
authorized representative shall present to the Board of Adjustment a written
staff report of any violation that has been issued for which the annual review
shall include a finding of one or more instances of noncompliance with
applicable laws, codes and ordinances, including but not limited to noise
regulations, litter control regulations, fire codes, building codes, nuisance
and public safety regulations, and special use permit conditions of approval.
If the Board of Adjustment votes to hold a modification or revocation of the
special use permit, the property owner, as specified under subsection (VV)(4)
below, shall be provided notice of the meeting and a copy of the staff report.
          (d)   Violations. The following tables show public safety and public
nuisance violations based on the applicable city department, and are not
exhaustive of all potential violations of this Chapter.
Public Safety Violations 
Table 1: Greenville Police Public Safety Violations Major Violations
Major Violations Minor Violations
Table 1: Greenville Police Public Safety Violations Major Violations
Major Violations                       Minor Violations
Aggravated Assault (to include
shootings, stabbings, violent assaults Sale of Alcohol to Minors by Outlet
resulting in significant injury,       Staff
employee assaulting patron with
significant injury)
                                       Minor Altercations (fights-little or no
Sexual Assaults                        injury, verbal disputes requiring police
                                       intervention)
Security Neglect                       ALE/ABC issues
Prostitution                           Security Violation (Minor)
                                       Negligent service of alcohol resulting
Negligent service of alcohol resulting in injury to persons or property; no
in severe injury or death              injury/treatment required by medical
                                       personnel/facility
Selling drugs on premises              Noise Violations
                                      Other Nuisance Violations
 
Table 2: Greenville Fire/Rescue/Building Code Public Safety Violations
Major Violations Minor Violations 
Table 2: Greenville Fire/Rescue/Building Code Public Safety Violations
Major Violations                      Minor Violations 
Blocked egress or exit that is         Exit sign not working properly
inoperable/ Inadequate means of egress
Fire protection system impairment      Emergency lighting not working properly
including sprinkler/fire alarm
Illegal/unapproved use of pyrotechnics Fire extinguishers expired or not
                                       working properly
Installation of unapproved wall        Misuse of extension cords
coverings that promote flame spread
Hazardous conditions prone to cause    Damaged electrical outlets
fire
                                       Unapproved construction or modification
Bad condition of walls                 to existing space (potentially major if
                                       significant change as determined Fire
                                       Marshal)
Overloaded floors                      Failure to complete required staff
                                       training
Defective construction                  
Decay                                   
Unsafe wiring or heating systems        
 
Table 3: Public Nuisance Violations
Violation Responsible Department
Table 3: Public Nuisance Violations
Violation                                                Responsible Department
Noise                                                    GPD
Trash and debris                                         PDS
Lack of required security personnel on-site              GPD, PDS
Other minor SUP violation                                GPD, FR, PDS
Non-life safety building/fire/zoning violations          FR, PDS
Lack of permit holder or on-site manager on the premises GPD, PDS
 
         (e)   Continuing violations. If a violation of this article is not
corrected within the time specified in the notice and citation or other lawful
order issued hereunder, the violator shall be guilty of a new and separate
violation, and each day's further continuing violation shall be a separate and
distinct violation, enforceable by all the remedies herein set forth, including
additional civil penalties.
         (f)   Compliance. Bar 2022s that have not received any violations of
one or more instances of noncompliance with applicable laws, codes and
ordinances, including but not limited to noise regulations, litter control
regulations, fire codes, building codes, nuisance and public safety
regulations, and special use permit conditions may be recommended for renewal
by the Director of Planning and Development Services or their representative to
the Board of Adjustment at the annual review.
         (g)   Noncompliance; modification or revocation. Staff may request the
Board of Adjustment hold a hearing for a modification or revocation of a
special use permit for any establishment that has enforcement actions for
numerous violations of one or more instances of noncompliance with applicable
laws, codes and ordinances including notices of violation and/or numerous calls
for service from city departments such as Police, Fire, Public Works, or
Planning & Development Services, not limited to noise regulations, litter
control regulations, fire codes, building codes, nuisance and public safety
regulations, notices of violations and special use permit conditions at any
time. The property owner, as specified under subsection (VV)(4), below shall be
provided notice of the meeting and a copy of the staff report.
         (h)   Quasi-judicial hearing. Any hearing for a modification or
revocation of a special use permit shall be in the nature of and in accordance
with the requirements for a hearing upon a special use permit application.
After the hearing and in accordance with the provisions of section
9-4-81, the Board of Adjustment may modify the conditions or revoke a special
use permit pursuant to this section (VV) and section
9-4-82. The modification or revocation of the special use permit by the Board
of Adjustment after the hearing shall constitute a revocation of the previously
granted special use permit for a bar 2022.
         (i)   Revocation. If a special use permit is revoked for any reason,
use of the property allowed by such special use permit shall be discontinued
immediately.
      (2)   Litter/debris. The owner(s) and/or operator(s) of a bar 2022 shall
collect and properly dispose of all litter and debris generated by their
establishment or patrons immediately following the closure of business or not
later than 7:00 a.m. each morning following any period of operation. All litter
or debris shall be collected from within the boundaries of the establishment,
associated parking areas, adjacent sidewalks and public rights-of-way or other
adjacent public property open to the public. In addition, the owner(s) and
operator(s) of a bar shall comply with the provisions of
Title 11, Chapter 9 of the City Code, whether or not the establishment is a
nightclub, bar or tavern.
      (3)   In addition to subsection (f) above, the Board of Adjustment may
establish specific and reasonable litter and trash mitigation standards or
requirements.
      (4)   Ownership. The special use permit shall be issued to the property
owner as listed on the tax records of the county. When the ownership of any
property, which has a special use permit for a bar 2022, is transferred to a
new owner by sale or other means, the new owner shall sign and file with the
Director of Planning and Development Services an acknowledgment of the rights,
conditions and responsibilities of the special use permit prior to operation of
the use under the permit. The acknowledgment shall be made on forms provided by
the planning office.
      (5)   Noise-amplified entertainment. In no event shall the noise
generated by amplified audio entertainment exceed the noise control provisions
as provided in Title 12, Chapter 5, of the Greenville City Code. For purposes
of this section, “amplified audio entertainment” shall mean any type of music
or other entertainment delivered through and by an electronic system; provided,
however, televisions operating with no amplification other than their internal
speakers or televisions connected to a master sound system operating at low
amplification and indoor background music system operating at a low
amplification and not intended as a principal form of entertainment shall not
be deemed amplified audio entertainment. This section shall apply regardless of
the number of patrons actually within the establishment at the time of
amplified audio entertainment. Security personnel shall remain on duty until
the close of business and later to such time that all patrons and other
persons, other than employees, have vacated the premises and associated parking
area.
      (6)   If amplified entertainment is provided after 11:00 p.m., the
establishment shall employ uniformed security guard(s) provided by a security
guard and control profession licensed in accordance with the provisions of G.S.
Chapter 74C in the following ratios:
 
Approved occupancy as determined by the Building Number of Security Personnel
Inspector
1-100                                            1
101-200                                          2
201-300                                          3
301-400                                          4
401-500                                          5
 
         If occupancy exceeds 500, the same ratios shall apply as in the above
table.
          Establishments that have an approved occupancy of no more than 100
and provide amplified entertainment after 11PM, shall employ no less than 2
security guards in order for one guard to be located within the establishment
and one guard to patrol the parking lot where applicable.
      (7)   Security plan. A security plan shall be submitted to the Greenville
Police Department for review and approval along with the special use permit
application. Additional security personnel maybe required at the discretion of
the Chief of Police based on location, proximity to similar uses, such as bars
and other bar 2022s, and building occupancy. The required security personnel
shall remain on duty and visible outside the establishment, and shall be
accessible to law enforcement officers at all time. This section shall apply
regardless of the number of patrons actually within the establishment at the
time of amplified audio entertainment.
      (8)   Lighting plan. A lighting plan shall be submitted to the Director
of Planning and Development Services or authorized agent for review and
approval, and lighting fixtures shall be installed and maintained pursuant to
the approved plan which illuminates all exterior portions of the building, lot
area and parking lot as determined appropriate by the Director of Planning and
Development Services, or authorized agent. Lighting shall be located and
shielded to prevent the light cone of all exterior fixtures from encroaching
beyond the property boundary line and into any adjacent public right-of-way,
property or dwelling. Required or additional optional lighting shall comply
with this subsection and section
9-4-104. A lighting plan will only be required when parking is located on
private property.
      (9)   Parking. Shall be exempt of parking requirements in Article O in
the Uptown District Area. Article O Parking standards apply in all areas except
the Uptown District Area.
      (10)   Shall use computer applications and software to detect fake
identification (IDs).
      (11)   Shall comply with all current building codes and safety standards.
      (12)   Within the geographic areas as described in the definition of a
Bar 2022(h), there is no separation between a bar 2022 and any other use or
zoning district.
      (13)   Shall only be granted one special use permit for the operation of
one Bar 2022 per parcel and/or building regardless of available units, suites,
or square footage within the building.
      (14)   Penalties. 
         (a)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter or a failure to
comply with any of its requirements shall subject the violator to a civil
penalty as follows:
 
                            Second Day/             Third Day/
Type of Violation First Day Second Violation within Second Violation within 12
                            12 Months               Months
Major Violation   $500      $1,000                  $2,000
Minor Violation   $250      $500                    $1,000
 
         (b)   Payment. Violators shall be issued a citation which must be paid
within 72 hours. If a person fails to pay the civil penalty within 72 hours,
the city may recover the penalty together with all costs by filing a civil
action in the general court of justice in the nature of a suit to collect a
debt.
         (c)   Other rmedies. In addition to the issuance of a notice of
violation, citation, or some other order, the modification or revocation of a
Bar 2022 special use permit, or imposition of civil penalties, any person who
violates this article may be subject to any and all civil and equitable
remedies set out in G.S. § 160A-175 and G.S. § 160D-404(c) in a court of
competent jurisdiction.
         (d)   Continuing violations. Each day that any violation continues
shall be considered a separate violation for purposes of the penalties and
remedies specified in this section. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Zoning
Enforcement Officer may invoke the escalating civil penalties authorized by
subsection (a) whenever the violation continues and there has been sufficient
time, no more than 72 hours, for the violation to be corrected after
notification that the violation exists or whenever the violation has occurred
previously during a 12-month period.
         (e)   Cumulative penalties and remedies. Any one, all, or any
combination of the foregoing penalties and remedies may be used to enforce this
chapter.
         (f)   Interested parties. The owner, tenant or occupant of any
building or land or part thereof and any architect, builder, contractor, agent,
or other person who participates in, assists, directs, creates, or maintains
any situation that is contrary to the requirements of this chapter may be held
responsible for the violation and suffer the penalties and be subject to the
remedies herein provided.
      (15)   Appeals.
         (a)   Appeals of Zoning Enforcement violations shall be made to the
Board of Adjustment in accordance with 9-4-351 and shall be submitted to the
City Clerk within 30 days of issuance of Notice of Violation.
         (b)   Appeals from Greenville Police Department, Fire/Rescue and
Public Nuisance violations shall be in accordance with standards and policies
of the appropriate department.
(Ord. No. 2383, § 4, passed 11-7-1991; Ord. No. 2390, § 4, passed 12-12-1991;
Ord. No. 2417, § 3, passed 2-10-1992; Ord. No. 2511, § 1, passed 8-24-1992;
Ord. No. 2541, § 1, passed 11-12-1992; Ord. No. 2544, § 3, passed 11-12-1992;
Ord. No. 2545, § 3, passed 11-12-1992; Ord. No. 2701, § 3, passed 8-12-1993;
Ord. No. 94-132, § 13, passed 10-13-1994; Ord. No. 97-38, § 5, passed 4-10-
1997; Ord. No. 97-85, § 1, passed 8-14-1997; Ord. No. 97-88, § 3, passed 8-14-
1997; Ord. No. 98-143, § 4, passed 11-12-1998; Ord. No. 00-66, § 1, passed 5-
11-2000; Ord. No. 03-49, § 2, passed 6-12-2003; Ord. No. 03-49, § 14, passed 6-
12-2003; Ord. No. 05-89, § 7, passed 8-11-2005; Ord. No. 05-90, § 1, passed 8-
11-2005; Ord. No. 07-25, § 3, passed 2-8-2007; Ord. No. 07-74, § 3, passed 6-
14-2007; Ord. No. 07-121, § 2, passed 9-13-2007; Ord. No. 08-04, § 5, passed 1-
10-2008; Ord. No. 09-27, § 8, passed 4-9-2009; Ord. No. 09-59, § 1, passed 8-
13-2009; Ord. No. 09-75, § 4, passed 9-10-2009; Ord. No. 10-106, § 5, passed
12-9-2010; Ord. No. 13-014, § 4, passed 4-11-2013; Ord. No. 14-010, passed 2-
13-2014; Ord. No. 14-048, 3, passed 8-14-2014; Ord. No. 15-020, § 3, passed 4-
9- 2015; Ord. No. 15-041, § 4, passed 8-13-2015; Ord. No. 15-051, § 3, passed
9-10-2015; Ord. No. 15-059, § 4, passed 10-8-2015; Ord. No. 15-067, § 1, passed
12-10-2015; Ord. No. 16-010, § 3, passed 2-11-2016; Ord. No. 19-045, § 1,
passed 9-12-2019 ; Ord. No. 20-064, § 3, passed 11-16-2020; Ord. No. 22-013, §
5, passed 1-24-2022; Ord. No. 23-012, § 4, passed 1-12-2023; Ord. No. 23-013,
§§ 4, 7, 9, 10, passed 1-12-2023; Ord. No. 23-013, §§ 4, 7, 9, 10, passed 1-12-
2023; Ord. No. 23-060, §§ 1, 2, passed 8-10-2023; Ord. No. 23-061, § 3, passed
8-10-2023)
ARTICLE F. DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS, MODIFICATIONS AND SPECIAL STANDARDS
SEC. 9-4-93 APPLICABILITY.
   Unless otherwise provided in these regulations, the minimum standards and
requirements established in this article shall apply to all uses. See also
Article E and Article L.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 2640, § 2, passed 6-10-1993)
SEC. 9-4-94 SCHEDULE OF DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS BY ZONING DISTRICT.
   (A)   RA-20 District.
      (1)   Lot area (net).
         (a)   Single-family, without public water: 20,000 square feet.
         (b)   Single-family, with public water: 10,000 square feet.
         (c)   Two-family attached, without public water: 25,000 square feet.
         (d)   Two-family attached, with public water: 15,000 square feet.
         (e)   Mobile home: in accordance with subsection (1)(a) or (b) above.
         (f)   All other uses: in accordance with subsection (1)(a) or (b)
above.
      (2)   Lot width (at the MBL).
         (a)   Single-family: 70 feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 90 feet.
         (c)   Mobile home: 70 feet.
         (d)   All other uses: 100 feet.
      (3)   Public street setback (MBL).
         (a)   Single-family: 30 feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 30 feet.
         (c)   Mobile home: 30 feet.
         (d)   All other uses: 30 feet and per Article G.
      (4)   Side setback.
         (a)   Single-family: Ten feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 12 feet.
         (c)   Mobile home: 12 feet.
         (d)   All other uses: 12 feet and per Article G.
      (5)   Rear setback.
         (a)   Single-family: 20 feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 20 feet.
         (c)   Mobile home: 20 feet.
         (d)   All other uses: 20 feet and per Article G.
      (6)   Height (above grade).
         (a)   Single-family: 35 feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 35 feet.
         (c)   Mobile home: 35 feet.
         (d)   All other uses: 65 feet.
      (7)   Lot coverage (excluding drives and parking). All uses: 40%.
   (B)   R-15S District.
      (1)   Lot area (net). All uses: 15,000 square feet.
      (2)   Lot width (at the MBL). All uses: 80 feet.
      (3)   Public street setback (MBL). All uses: 30 feet.
      (4)   Side setback. All uses: Ten feet.
      (5)   Rear setback. All uses: 15 feet.
      (6)   Height (above grade). All uses: 35 feet.
      (7)   Lot coverage (excluding drives and parking). All uses: 40%.
   (C)   R-9S District.
      (1)   Lot area (net). All uses: 9,000 square feet.
      (2)   Lot width (at the MBL). All uses: 70 feet.
      (3)   Public street setback (MBL). All uses: 25 feet.
      (4)   Side setback. All uses: Ten feet.
      (5)   Rear setback. All uses: 15 feet.
      (6)   Height (above grade). All uses: 35 feet.
      (7)   Lot coverage (excluding drives and parking). All uses: 40%.
   (D)   R-9 District.
      (1)   Lot area (net).
         (a)   Single-family: 9,000 square feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 13,500 square feet.
         (c)   All other uses: 9,000 square feet.
      (2)   Lot width (at the MBL).
         (a)   Single-family: 70 feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 90 feet.
         (c)   All other uses: 70 feet.
      (3)   Public street setback (MBL).
         (a)   Single-family: 25 feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 25 feet.
         (c)   All other uses: 25 feet and per Article G.
      (4)   Side setback.
         (a)   Single-family: Ten feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 14 feet.
         (c)   All other uses: Ten feet and per Article G.
      (5)   Rear setback.
         (a)   Single-family: 15 feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 15 feet.
         (c)   All other uses: 15 feet and per Article G.
      (6)   Height (above grade). All uses: 35 feet.
      (7)   Lot coverage (excluding drives and parking). All uses: 40%.
   (E)   R-6S District.
      (1)   Lot area (net). All uses: 6,000 square feet.
      (2)   Lot width (at the MBL). All uses: 60 feet.
      (3)   Public street setback (MBL). All uses: 25 feet.
      (4)   Side setback. All uses: Eight feet.
      (5)   Rear setback. All uses: 15 feet.
      (6)   Height (above grade). All uses: 35 feet.
      (7)   Lot coverage (excluding drives and parking). All uses: 40%.
   (F)   R-6 District.
      (1)   Lot area (net).
         (a)   Single-family: 6,000 square feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 6,000 square feet.
         (c)   Multi-family: Per Article I.
         (d)   All other uses: 6,000 square feet.
      (2)   Lot width (at the MBL).
         (a)   Single-family: 60 feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 60 feet.
         (c)   Multi-family: Per Article I.
         (d)   All other uses: 60 feet.
      (3)   Public street setback (MBL).
         (a)   Single-family: 25 feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 25 feet.
         (c)   Multi-family: Per Article I.
         (d)   All other uses: 25 feet and per Article G.
      (4)   Side setback.
         (a)   Single-family: Eight feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: Eight feet.
         (c)   Multi-family: per Article I.
         (d)   All other uses: Eight feet and per Article G.
      (5)   Rear setback.
         (a)   Single-family: 15 feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 15 feet.
         (c)   Multi-family: Per Article I.
         (d)   All other uses: 15 feet and per Article G.
      (6)   Height (above grade).
         (a)   Single-family: 35 feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 35 feet.
         (c)   Multi-family: per Article I.
         (d)   All other uses: 35 feet.
      (7)   Lot coverage (excluding drives and parking). All uses: 40%.
   (G)   R-6A District.
      (1)   Lot area (net).
         (a)   Single-family: 6,000 square feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 9,000 square feet.
         (c)   Multi-family: Per Article I.
         (d)   All other uses: 6,000 square feet.
      (2)   Lot width (at the MBL).
         (a)   Single-family: 60 feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 70 feet.
         (c)   Multi-family: Per Article I.
         (d)   All other uses: 60 feet.
      (3)   Public street (MBL).
         (a)   Single-family: 25 feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 25 feet.
         (c)   Multi-family: Per Article I.
         (d)   All other uses: 25 feet and per Article G.
      (4)   Side setback.
         (a)   Single-family: Eight feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 12 feet.
         (c)   Multi-family: Per Article I.
         (d)   All other uses: Eight feet and per Article G.
      (5)   Rear setback.
         (a)   Single-family: 15 feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 15 feet.
         (c)   Multi-family: Per Article I.
         (d)   All other uses: 15 feet and per Article G.
      (6)   Height (above grade).
         (a)   Single-family: 35 feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 35 feet.
         (c)   Multi-family: Per Article I.
         (d)   All other uses: 35 feet.
      (7)   Lot coverage (excluding drives and parking). All uses: 40%.
   (H)   R-6N District (per Article L).
      (1)   Lot area (net).
         (a)   Single-family: 6,000 square feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 9,000 square feet.
         (c)   Multi-family: Per Article I.
         (d)   All other uses: 6,000 square feet.
      (2)   Lot width (at the MBL).
         (a)   Single-family: 60 feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 70 feet.
         (c)   Multi-family: Per Article I.
         (d)   All other uses: 60 feet.
      (3)   Public street setback (MBL). All uses: 25 feet and per Article G
and Article L.
      (4)   Side setback.
         (a)   Single-family: Eight feet.
         (b)   Two-family: 12 feet and per Article L.
         (c)   Multi-family: Per Article I and Article L.
         (d)   All other uses: Eight feet and per Article G and Article L.
      (5)   Rear setback.
         (a)   Single-family: 15 feet.
         (b)   Two-family: 15 feet and per Article L.
         (c)   Multi-family: Per Article I and Article L.
         (d)   All other uses: 15 feet and per Article G and Article L.
      (6)   Height (above grade).
         (a)   Single-family: 35 feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 35 feet.
         (c)   Multi-family: Per Article I.
         (d)   All other uses: 35 feet.
      (7)   Lot coverage (excluding drives and parking). All uses: 40%.
   (I)   R-6MH District (per Article H).
      (1)   Lot area (net).
         (a)   Single-family: 6,000 square feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 6,000 square feet.
         (c)   Mobile home: 6,000 square feet.
         (d)   Mobile home park units: Per Article H.
         (e)   Multi-family: Per Article I.
      (2)   Lot width (at the MBL).
         (a)   Single-family: 60 feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 60 feet.
         (c)   Mobile home: 60 feet.
         (d)   Mobile home park units: Per Article H.
         (e)   Multi-family: Per Article I.
      (3)   Public street setback (MBL). All uses: 25 feet and per Article G
and Article H.
      (4)   Side setback.
         (a)   Single-family: Eight feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: Eight feet.
         (c)   Mobile home: Eight feet.
         (d)   Mobile home park units: Per Article H.
         (e)   Multi-family: Per Article I.
      (5)   Rear setback.
         (a)   Single-family: 15 feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 15 feet.
         (c)   Mobile home: 15 feet.
         (d)   Mobile home park units: Per Article H.
         (e)   Multi-family: Per Article I.
      (6)   Height (above grade).
         (a)   Single-family: 35 feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 35 feet.
         (c)   Mobile home: 35 feet.
         (d)   Mobile home park units: Per Article H.
         (e)   Multi-family: Per Article I.
      (7)   Lot coverage (excluding drives and parking). All uses: 40%.
   (J)   PUD District (per Article J).
      (1)   Lot area (net). All uses: Per Article J.
      (2)   Lot width (at the MBL). All uses: Per Article J.
      (3)   Public street setback (MBL). All uses: Per Article J.
      (4)   Side setback. All uses: Per Article J.
      (5)   Rear setback. All uses: Per Article J.
      (6)   Height (above grade). All uses: Per Article J.
      (7)   Lot coverage (excluding drives and parking) All uses: Per Article
J.
   (K)   MI District.
      (1)   Lot area (net). All uses: 40,000 square feet.
      (2)   Lot width (at the MBL). All uses: 175 feet.
      (3)   Public street setback (MBL). All uses: 50 feet and per Article G.
      (4)   Side setback. All uses: Per Article G.
      (5)   Rear setback. All uses: Per Article G.
      (6)   Maximum height (above grade). All uses: none.
      (7)   Maximum lot coverage (excluding drives and parking). All uses: 50%.
   (L)   MS District.
      (1)   Lot area (net). All uses: 10,000 square feet.
      (2)   Lot width (at the MBL). All uses: 100 feet.
      (3)   Public street setback (MBL). All uses: 40 feet and per Article G.
      (4)   Side setback. All uses: Per Article G.
      (5)   Rear setback. All uses: Per Article G.
      (6)   Maximum height (above grade). All uses: 80 feet.
      (7)   Maximum lot coverage (excluding drives and parking). All uses: 40%.
   (M)   MO District.
      (1)   Lot area (net). All uses: 15,000 square feet.
      (2)   Lot width (at the MBL). All uses: 75 feet.
      (3)   Public street setback (MBL). All uses: 40 feet and per Article G.
      (4)   Side setback. All uses: Per Article G.
      (5)   Rear setback. All uses: Per Article G.
      (6)   Maximum height (above grade). All uses: 80 feet.
      (7)   Maximum lot coverage (excluding drives and parking). All uses: 40%.
   (N)   MCG District (per Article L).
      (1)   Lot area (net). All uses: Per Article L.
      (2)   Lot width (at the MBL).
         (a)   Lots containing four or more acres: 150 feet.
         (b)   Lots containing less than four acres: Per Article L.
      (3)   Public street setback (MBL). All uses: 50 feet and per Article G.
      (4)   Side setback. All uses: Per Articles G and Article L.
      (5)   Rear setback. All uses: per Articles G and Article L.
      (6)   Maximum height (above grade): All uses: 80 feet.
      (7)   Maximum lot coverage (excluding drives and parking): All uses: 40%.
   (O)   MR District.
      (1)   Lot area (net).
         (a)   Single-family: 6,000 square feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 6,000 square feet.
         (c)   Multi-family: Per Article I.
         (d)   All other uses: 6,000 square feet and Article G.
      (2)   Lot width (at the MBL). All uses: 60 feet.
      (3)   Public street setback (MBL).
         (a)   Single-family: 25 feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 25 feet.
         (c)   Multi-family: Per Article I.
         (d)   All other uses: 25 feet and Article G.
      (4)   Side setback.
         (a)   Single-family: Eight feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: Eight feet.
         (c)   Multi-family: Per Article I.
         (d)   All other uses: Per Article G.
      (5)   Rear setback.
         (a)   Single-family: 15 feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 15 feet.
      (6)   Maximum height (above grade).
         (a)   Single-family: 40 feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 40 feet.
         (c)   Multi-family: Per Article I.
         (d)   All other uses: 40 feet.
      (7)   Maximum lot coverage (excluding drives and parking). All uses: 40%.
   (P)   MCH District.
      (1)   Lot area (net). All uses: 15,000 square feet.
      (2)   Lot width (at the MBL). All uses: 100 feet.
      (3)   Public street setback (MBL). All uses: 50 feet and per Article G.
      (4)   Side setback. All uses: Per Article G.
      (5)   Rear setback. All uses: Per Article G.
      (6)   Maximum height (above grade). All uses: 80 feet.
      (7)   Maximum lot coverage (excluding drives and parking). All uses: 40%.
   (Q)   MRS District.
      (1)   Lot area (net).
         (a)   Single-family, without public water: 20,000 square feet.
         (b)   Single-family, with public water: 10,000 square feet.
         (c)   All other uses: In accordance with subsection (Q)(1)(a) or (b)
above.
      (2)   Lot width (at the MBL). All uses: 100 feet.
      (3)   Public street setback (MBL).
         (a)   Single-family: 30 feet.
         (b)   All other uses: 30 feet and in accordance with Article G.
      (4)   Side setback.
         (a)   Single-family: 12 feet.
         (b)   All other uses: 12 feet and per Article G.
      (5)   Rear setback.
         (a)   Single-family: 20 feet.
         (b)   All other uses: 20 feet and per Article G.
      (6)   Maximum height. All uses: 40 feet.
      (7)   Maximum lot coverage (excluding drives and parking). All uses: 40%.
   (R)   OR District.
      (1)   Lot area (net).
         (a)   Two-family attached: 7,500 square feet.
         (b)   Multi-family: Per Article I.
         (c)   All other uses: 7,500 square feet.
      (2)   Lot width (at the MBL). All uses: 50 feet.
      (3)   Public street setback (MBL).
         (a)   Two-family attached: 25 feet.
         (b)   Multi-family: Per Article I.
         (c)   All other uses: Ten feet and per Article G.
      (4)   Side setback.
         (a)   Two-family attached: Eight feet.
         (b)   Multi-family: per Article I.
         (c)   All other uses: per Article G.
      (5)   Rear setback.
         (a)   Two-family attached: 15 feet.
         (b)   Multi-family: Per Article I.
         (c)   All other uses: Per Article G.
      (6)   Maximum height (above grade).
         (a)   Two-family attached: 35 feet.
         (b)   Multi-family: Per Article I.
         (c)   All other uses: 90 feet.
      (7)   Maximum lot coverage (excluding drives and parking).
         (a)   Two-family attached: 40%.
         (b)   Multi-family: 40%.
         (c)   All other uses: None.
   (S)   O District.
      (1)   Lot area (net). All uses: 12,000 square feet.
      (2)   Lot width (at the MBL). All uses: 100 feet.
      (3)   Public street setback (MBL). All uses: 10 feet and per Article G.
      (4)   Side setback. All uses: Per Article G.
      (5)   Rear setback. All uses: Per Article G.
      (6)   Maximum height (above grade). All uses: 65 feet. No structure shall
exceed 45 feet in height above the property grade unless the required setbacks
are increased an additional three feet or fraction thereof for each additional
one foot or fraction thereof of building height in excess of 45 feet. Where
buildings exceed 45 feet in height, bufferyard “F” shall apply adjacent to said
buildings except where the property abuts public/private streets or railroad
rights-of-way in which the bufferyard as set forth in Article G shall apply.
      (7)   Maximum lot coverage (excluding drives and parking). All uses:
None.
   (T)   CN District.
      (1)   Lot area (net). All uses: None.
      (2)   Lot width (at the MBL). All uses: None.
      (3)   Public street setback (MBL). All uses: 40 feet and per Article G.
      (4)   Side setback. All uses: Per Article G.
      (5)   Rear setback. All uses: Per Article G.
      (6)   Maximum height (above grade). All uses: None.
      (7)   Maximum lot coverage (excluding drives and parking) All uses: None.
   (U)   CD District.
      (1)   Lot area (net).
         (a)   Multi-family: Per Article I.
         (b)   Other uses: None.
      (2)   Lot width (at the MBL). All uses: None.   
      (3)   Public street setback (MBL). All uses: None.
      (4)   Side setback. All uses: None.
      (5)   Rear setback. All uses: None.
      (6)   Maximum height (above grade). All uses: None.
      (7)   Maximum lot coverage (excluding drives and parking). All uses:
None.
   (V)   CDF District.
      (1)   Lot area (net).
         (a)   Single-family: 6,000 square feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 6,000 square feet.
         (c)   Multi-family: Per Article I.
         (d)   All other uses: None.
      (2)   Lot width (at the MBL).
         (a)   Single-family: 60 feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 60 feet.
         (c)   Multi-family: Per Article I.
         (d)   All other uses: None.
      (3)   Public street setback (MBL).
         (a)   Single-family: 25 feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 25 feet.
         (c)   Multi-family: Per Article I.
         (d)   All other uses: Ten feet and per Article G.
      (4)   Side setback.
         (a)   Single-family: Eight feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: Eight feet.
         (c)   Multi-family: Per Article I.
         (d)   All other uses: Per Article G.
      (5)   Rear setback.
         (a)   Single-family: 15 feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 15 feet.
         (c)   Multi-family: Per Article I.
         (d)   All other uses: Per Article G.
      (6)   Maximum height (above grade).
         (a)   Single-family: 35 feet.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 35 feet.
         (c)   Multi-family: Per Article I.
         (d)   All other uses: None.
      (7)   Maximum lot coverage (excluding drives and parking).
         (a)   Single-family: 40%.
         (b)   Two-family attached: 40%.
         (c)   Multi-family: 40%.
         (d)   All other uses: None.
   (W)   CG District.
      (1)   Lot area (net). All uses: None.
      (2)   Lot width (at the MBL). All uses: None.
      (3)   Public street setback (MBL). All uses: 20 feet and per Article G.
      (4)   Side setback. All uses: Per Article G.
      (5)   Rear setback. All uses: Per Article G.
      (6)   Maximum height (above grade). All uses: None.
      (7)   Maximum lot coverage (excluding drives and parking). All uses:
None.
   (X)   CH District.
      (1)   Lot area (net). All uses: None.
      (2)   Lot width (at the MBL). All uses: None.
      (3)   Public street setback (MBL). All uses: 20 feet and per Article G.
      (4)   Side setback. All uses: Per Article G.
      (5)   Rear setback. All uses: Per Article G.
      (6)   Maximum height (above grade). All uses: None.
      (7)   Maximum lot coverage (excluding drives and parking) All uses: None.
   (Y)   IU District.
      (1)   Lot area (net). All uses: None.
      (2)   Lot width (at the MBL). All uses: None.
      (3)   Public street setback (MBL). All uses: 25 feet and per Article G.
      (4)   Side setback. All uses: Per Article G.
      (5)   Rear setback. All uses: Per Article G.
      (6)   Maximum height (above grade). All uses: None.
      (7)   Maximum lot coverage (excluding drives and parking). All uses: 50%.
   (Z)   PIU District (per Article L).
      (1)   Lot area (net). All uses: 217,800 square feet (five acres).
      (2)   Lot width (at the MBL). All uses: 400 feet.
   (3)   Public street setback (MBL). All uses: 75 feet and per Article G.
      (4)   Side setback. All uses: 60 feet and per Article G.
      (5)   Rear setback. All uses: 60 feet and per Article G.
      (6)   Maximum height (above grade). All uses: none; heights in excess of
75 feet shall be allowed provided the side and rear setbacks are increased one
foot for each one foot or fraction thereof in height in excess of 75 feet.
      (7)   Maximum lot coverage (excluding drives and parking). All uses: 40%.
   (AA)   I District.
      (1)   Lot area (net). All uses: None.
      (2)   Lot width (at the MBL). All uses: None.
      (3)   Public street setback (MBL). All uses: 25 feet and per Article G.
      (4)   Side setback. All uses: Per Article G.
      (5)   Rear setback. All uses: Per Article G.
      (6)   Maximum height (above grade). All uses: None.
      (7)   Maximum lot coverage (excluding drives and parking). All uses: 50%.
   (BB)   PI District (per Article L).
      (1)   Lot area (net). All uses: 217,800 square feet (five acres).
      (2)   Lot width (at the MBL). All uses: 400 feet.
      (3)   Public street setback (MBL). All uses: 75 feet and per Article G.
      (4)   Side setback. All uses: 60 feet and per Article G.
      (5)   Rear setback. All uses: 60 feet and per Article G.
      (6)   Maximum height (above grade). All uses: none: heights in excess of
75 feet shall be allowed, provided the side and rear setbacks are increased one
foot for each one foot or fraction thereof in height in excess of 75 feet.
      (7)   Maximum lot coverage (excluding drives and parking). All uses: 40%.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 2543, §§ 1–4, passed 11-12-
1992; Ord. No. 94-129, § 1, passed 9-19-1994; Ord. No. 94-156, § 3, passed 12-
8-1994; Ord. No. 95-29, § 4, passed 3-9-1995; Ord. No. 97-85, §§ 1, 2, passed
8-14-1997; Ord. No. 98-68, §§ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, passed 6-11-1998; Ord. No.
04-44, § 1, passed 5-13-2004; Ord. No. 10-84, §§ 1, 2, passed 10-14-2010; Ord.
No. 13-020, § 1, passed 5-9-2013; Ord. No. 22-041, § 1, passed 5-12-2022)
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see §
9-4-103
SEC. 9-4-95 MEASURING SETBACKS.
   (A)   Public street setbacks state the minimum distance required between the
exterior finished wall of all structures and any adjacent public street right-
of-way line. Where property is developed adjacent to an existing or future
thoroughfare as identified on the Highway Map of the Comprehensive
Transportation Plan, the public street setback shall be measured from the
future thoroughfare right-of-way as determined by the plan or policy of the
city.
   (B)   Side and rear setbacks state the minimum distance required between the
exterior finished wall of all structures and the adjacent side or rear property
line.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 9-4-96 LOT FRONTAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided, no principal and/or accessory
building, structure or use shall be erected, expanded, enlarged, increased or
initiated on any lot that does not abut a public street a minimum distance of
50 feet, except on the radius of a cul-de-sac where such distance may be
reduced to 40 feet. The minimum distance shall be measured along the right-of-
way line of the public street.
   (B)   Unimproved and/or unaccepted street exemption. A permit may be issued
for improvement, construction or use on a lot that abuts a dedicated street for
the minimum distance which is an unimproved and/or unaccepted street, provided
the street meets the applicable requirements of the subdivision regulations
including, but not limited to, Article E and Article F.
   (C)   Single-family exemption. A single-family dwelling may be constructed
on a lot that does not abut a public street, provided that the lot is at least
two acres in size and is provided with direct access to a public street by an
easement created for the exclusive use of the dwelling. Any easement created
pursuant to this exemption shall be at least 40 feet in width and shall not
exceed 300 feet in length.
   (D)   Planned unit development and multi-family development exemption. A
permit for construction or use within any planned unit development or multi-
family development may be allowed on a lot that does not abut a public street,
provided the development is platted pursuant to the subdivision regulations set
forth in
Chapter 5 of this Title, and where the original development tract or lot met
the minimum lot frontage requirement and the resulting lots are provided direct
access to a public street across common property or an approved private street
perpetually maintained for that purpose.
   (E)   Office, commercial and industrial exemption. A permit for construction
or use within any office, commercial and industrial development may be allowed
on a lot that does not abut a public street, provided the development is
platted pursuant to the Subdivision Regulations and where the original
development tract or lot met the minimum lot frontage requirement and the
resulting lots are provided direct access to a public street across common
property, or an approved private street or a recorded access easement
perpetually maintained for the purpose.
   (F)   Proximity to streets.
      (1)   All portions of each building erected in accordance with this
section shall be located within 500 feet of an approved public or private
street, except as further provided under subsection (F)(2) below.
      (2)   All portions of each building located within any development which
has exclusive and/or common property access drives and parking areas meeting
the requirements of the North Carolina State Fire Code for a fire apparatus
access road shall be located within 1,000 feet of an approved public or private
street. The fire apparatus access road shall extend to within 150 feet of all
portions of the facility as approved by the Chief of Fire and Rescue.
      (3)   No portion of this subsection shall preclude the city from
requiring the construction of a new public street or extension of an existing
public street where such is necessary to provide access to adjacent property
and/or provide appropriate levels of access and linkages associated with the
city’s street network.
   (G)   Fire hydrants. All portions of each building erected in accordance
with this section shall be located within an acceptable distance to a fire
hydrant as required by the subdivision regulations.
(Ord. No. 2440, § 1, passed 3-12-1992; Ord. No. 94-84, §§ 1, 2, passed 6-9-
1994; Ord. No. 11-061, § 1, passed 10-13-2011)
SEC. 9-4-97 LOT WIDTH REDUCTION.
   The minimum width for lots which abut the radius of a cul-de-sac may be
reduced; provided, however, no lot shall have a width of less than 60 feet. To
qualify under this section, the subject lot shall abut by not less than 80% of
its frontage on the cul-de-sac.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 2593, § 1, passed 2-11-1993)
SEC. 9-4-98 HEIGHT EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The height limits of these regulations shall not apply to a church
spire, belfry, cupola or dome; an ornamental tower not intended for human
occupancy; a conveyor or a parapet wall not extended more than three feet above
the roof line of the building; and other necessary mechanical or communications
appurtenances attached to the roof of a building. Height limits of these
regulations shall apply to distributed antenna systems (DAS) installed on all
types of posts, towers and structures.
   (B)   The height of the following freestanding structures may exceed the
height limits of the district, provided that the public street, side and rear
setbacks are increased one foot for every one foot or fraction thereof in
height above the district maximum:
      (1)   Monuments;
      (2)   Water towers;
      (3)   Observation towers;
      (4)   Transmission towers;
      (5)   Chimneys or smoke stacks;
      (6)   Flag poles;
      (7)   Masts or aerials;
      (8)   Farm structures;
      (9)   Stadiums; and
      (10)   Satellite dish antennas which are 80 inches or less in diameter.
   (C)   All uses, including those listed under this section, shall in
accordance with section
9-4-14, be limited to the height, locational standards and requirements of the
Pitt-Greenville Airport zoning ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 2593, § 2, passed 2-11-1993;
Ord. No. 97-5, § 5, passed 1-9-1997; Ord. No. 16-066, § 4, passed 12-8-2016)
SEC. 9-4-99 VISIBILITY; SIGHT DISTANCES MAINTAINED.
   Visibility shall be reserved in accordance with the sight distance standards
and requirements of Title 6, Chapter 2, Streets and Sidewalks, of the
Greenville City Code and as provided by notation or description upon any map
recorded pursuant to the subdivision regulations.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 2530, § 1, passed 10-8-1992)
SEC. 9-4-100 RESIDENTIAL ACCESSORY STRUCTURE AND BUILDING STANDARDS; EXCEPT AS
OTHERWISE REGULATED UNDER ARTICLES H, I, J, K AND M.
   (A)   Residential; detached accessory.
      (1)   Location.
         (a)   May be located in the rear yard and shall not be located in any
front or side yard, except as provided under subsection (A)(1)(b) below.
         (b)   Garages and carports may be located in a side yard.
      (2)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Side yard.
            1.   Not less than the principal building setback for the district
and use.
            2.   Public street setbacks for the district shall apply for all
corner or double frontage lots.
         (b)   Rear yard.
            1.   Not less than the principal building setback for the district
and use, except as further provided.
            2.   a.   Structures or buildings not exceeding 15 feet in height
shall be set back not less than five feet and per Article G. Public street
setbacks for the district shall apply for all corner or double frontage lots
except as provided under subsection (A)(2)(b)2.b. below.
               b.   The rear yard setback of single-family and two-family
attached (duplex) double frontage lots shall be not less than 15 feet provided
that: the reverse rear frontage public street is a minor or major thoroughfare
street as shown on the adopted Highway Map of the Comprehensive Transportation
Plan; no driveway access is existing or permitted by regulation, at the time of
building permit application, for the subject lot at any point on the reverse
rear frontage; and the front orientation of adjacent dwellings, located on all
sides of the subject lot, which share common side and/or rear yard boundaries
with the subject lot, shall be to a street frontage other than the reverse rear
frontage street of the subject lot.
            3.   For purposes of this section, the term “reverse rear frontage”
shall be construed as the street frontage opposite to the front orientation of
the subject dwelling.
         (c)   Building separation.
            1.   No detached accessory structure shall be located less than
five feet from any other structure located on the same lot.
            2.   Detached accessory structures not qualified under subsection
(A)(2)(c)1. above shall not be located less than ten feet from any principal
structure.
            3.   No detached accessory structure shall be located less than
five feet from any other detached accessory structure located on the same lot.
      (3)   Height.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided under subsection (A)(3)(b) below,
the height of any accessory structure or building shall not exceed the height
of the existing principal building or district maximum height, whichever is
less.
         (b)   In cases where the provisions of this subsection will not allow
an accessory structure or building of at least 15 feet in height, then the
requirements of this subsection shall be waived to allow an accessory structure
or building of 15 feet or less in height at the option of the owner. All other
provisions of this section shall apply.
   (B)   Residential; attached accessory. The location, setback and height
shall be in accordance with the district standards established for the
principal building unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   Electric service.
      (1)   Except as further provided, no accessory building located on a lot
containing a single-family residential use shall have a separate electric
service.
      (2)   Single-family accessory buildings may, at the option of the owner,
have a separate electric service provided compliance with all of the following:
         (a)   The accessory building shall not be utilized as a temporary or
permanent dwelling;
         (b)   The principal use single-family dwelling shall both: have not
less than an existing and installed 400 amperage electric service, and the
existing service shall not have available reserve capacity to adequately serve
the accessory use, as determined by the Building Inspector;
         (c)   The accessory building shall not have separate sanitary sewer
service;
         (d)   The accessory building shall not contain all independent
housekeeping facilities and/or qualify as a dwelling unit. For purposes of this
section, the term “independent housekeeping facilities” shall be construed to
include bathroom, sanitation, living, dining, sleeping, and a permanently
installed kitchen that includes residential code compliant electric wiring and
plumbing; and
         (e)   No single-family lot shall have more than two electric services
as provided herein; provided, however, a bona fide farm may have electric
service to nonresidential farm related buildings without restriction to the
total number of electric services allowed under this section.
   (D)   List of accessory structures or buildings. Residential accessory
structures and buildings may include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Carport;
      (2)   Garage;
      (3)   Greenhouse;
      (4)   Playhouse;
      (5)   Pumphouse;
      (6)   Storage shed;
      (7)   Swimming pool;
      (8)   Tool shed;
      (9)   Work shop;
      (10)   Dog pen and/or house, keeping of three or fewer dogs; and
      (11)   Satellite dish antennas.
   (E)   Special requirements for certain accessory structures or buildings.
      (1)   Outdoor swimming pools. An outdoor swimming pool, including an in-
ground, above-ground or on-ground pool structure intended for recreational
bathing that contains water over two feet in depth or which exceeds 40 square
feet in water surface area shall be surrounded by a four-foot or higher barrier
consisting of a fence, wall or building wall or combination thereof which
obstructs access to the swimming pool, in accordance with the North Carolina
State Building Code. No pool structure, including associated decks and concrete
aprons, shall be located nearer than five feet from a property line.
      (2)   Satellite dish antennas. Shall be subject to section
9-4-103(I) of this article.
      (3)   Stables and/or kennels. Shall be subject to section
9-4-103(J) of this article.
      (4)   Sports ramps. Sports ramps shall comply with all of the following:
         (a)   Sports ramps, including all elevated activity surface areas and
all associated flat bottom, standing, stopping or seating surfaces which are
six or more inches above the adjacent grade shall not exceed 500 square feet in
total on-site elevated surface activity area;
         (b)   No portion of a sports ramp including structural supports,
railings, walls and/or barriers shall exceed ten feet in height above the
adjacent grade, as measured at 90 degrees;
         (c)   A sports ramp that is attached to or which contains an accessory
building or other enclosed storage area shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with the applicable provisions of the N.C. State Building Code; and
         (d)   No sports ramp or associated structure shall be attached to or
supported by a dwelling structure.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 95-82, § 1, passed 8-10-1995;
Ord. No. 96-106, §§ 1, 2, passed 11-14-1996; Ord. No. 97-5, § 1, passed 1-9-
1997; Ord. No. 97-39, § 1, passed 4-10-1997; Ord. No. 02-117, §§ 1, 2, passed
11-14-2002; Ord. No. 03-51, § 1, passed 6-12-2003; Ord. No. 04-95, § 2, passed
8-12-2004; Ord. No. 05-91, § 1, passed 8-11-2005; Ord. No. 07-145, § 1, passed
11-8-2007; Ord. No. 21-003, § 1, passed 1-19-2021; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed
5-11-2023)
SEC. 9-4-101 COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL AND OFFICE ACCESSORY STRUCTURE AND BUILDING
STANDARDS.
   (A)   Dimensions. The location, setback and height of any commercial,
industrial and office accessory structure or building shall be in accordance
with the district minimum established for the principal use and the bufferyard
regulations.
   (B)   Garbage/trash container pad standards. Container pads shall be
enclosed on three sides by a complete visual screen consisting of a fence,
vegetation or combination thereof.
   (C)   Special requirements for certain accessory structures or buildings.
      (1)   Swimming pools. Except as otherwise provided, pools permanently or
semipermanently constructed below grade and which exceed 40 square feet in
water surface area shall be protected by a five-foot or higher fence containing
a latching gate to keep children and animals from having unsupervised access.
Pools located completely within an enclosed structure shall be exempt from the
requirements of this subsection.
      (2)   Satellite dish antennas. Shall be subject to section
9-4-103(I) of this article.
      (3)   Stables and/or kennels. Shall be subject to section
9-4-103(J) of this article.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 2466, § 1, passed 6-8-1992;
Ord. No. 97-5, § 2, passed 1-9-1997)
SEC. 9-4-101.1 SETBACK EXEMPTION.
   (A)   Except as further provided, minimum non-screening Bufferyard B
setbacks set forth under section 9-4-119, and/or minimum street right-of-way
building setbacks may be reduced by up to 10%, at the option of the owner,
where the reduction is necessary to retain an existing ten-inch-plus caliper
large tree, provided:
      (1)   The tree is determined, by the Director of Planning and Development
Services or his or her designated representative, to be either natural growth
(seedling) vegetation or that the tree has been in existence for not less than
20 years at the current location, otherwise previously transplanted trees shall
not qualify for purposes of this section;
      (2)   That the reduction is indicated upon an approved site plan;
including the location, type and caliper of the subject tree, and the building
separation and future no-build zone as further described;
      (3)   That a building to tree trunk separation of not less than ten feet
is maintained at the time of initial construction;
      (4)   No new future buildings, expansions or additions to existing
buildings, or other impervious areas including parking areas and/or drives,
shall be allowed to encroach into a designated future no-build zone, described
as a ten-foot radius from the center of the trunk of the retained tree; and
      (5)   A six-inch or greater caliper large tree shall be substituted in
replacement of any dead or diseased tree qualified under this requirement, at
the location of the removed tree, within 60 days of removal of the tree by the
owner or within the period following notice by the city.
   (B)   The setback reduction allowance shall not apply to single-family and
two-family attached (duplex) development or associated accessory structures.
(Ord. No. 05-103, § 8, passed 10-13-2005; Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-
2006; Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 9-4-102 PROJECTIONS INTO REQUIRED YARDS.
   The following attached structures will be permitted to project into the
specified yard for the following distance:
   (A)   Sills and eaves: Two feet into any yard.
   (B)   Fire escape: Four feet into any yard.
   (C)   Chimneys: Three feet into any yard.
   (D)   Bay windows: Three feet into any yard provided that the projection is
not an extension of the foundation; if it is an extension of the foundation,
the setback shall be measured from the exterior finished wall.
   (E)   Stoops; open unenclosed: Three feet into any yard.
   (F)   Porches; open unenclosed and covered or uncovered (excluding screened
or glassed): Seven feet into a front or rear yard provided such porch does not
exceed 200 square feet in surface area.
   (G)   Carports; open unenclosed: Open and unenclosed carports which are
attached to and part of the principal structure and which are unenclosed on all
exterior sides except for necessary supports may project into interior side or
rear yards but shall be no closer than five feet to a side or rear property
line.
   (H)   Deck/balcony; open unenclosed and uncovered: Three feet into any yard.
   (I)   Steps open unenclosed and uncovered: can project into any yard;
however, no steps shall be located closer than five feet to any property line.
   (J)   Gas pump island: can project into any yard in accordance with the
bufferyard regulations; however, no gas pump island shall be located closer
than ten feet to a public street right-of-way except as further provided.
Within any MD-Medical District, no gas pump island shall be located within 30
feet of any public street right-of-way line.
   (K)   Canopies and awnings: Can project into any yard in accordance with the
bufferyard regulations or the following requirements, whichever is greater:
       (1)   CDF District: Not closer than five feet to any public street
right-of-way.
      (2)   All other nonresidential districts: Not closer than ten feet to any
public street right-of-way.
      (3)   All residential districts: Five feet into any yard.
   (L)   Mechanical equipment; habitable area heating and air conditioning
units: Three feet into any yard. Commercial mechanical equipment including food
and freezer lockers, furnaces, ovens and the like or any equipment which
utilizes a structure shall not be included under this exemption.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 2382, § 1, passed 11-7-1991;
Ord. No. 94-21, § 1, passed 2-10-1994; Ord. No. 09-74, § 1, passed 9-10-2009)
SEC. 9-4-103 SPECIAL STANDARDS FOR CERTAIN SPECIFIC USES.
   (A)   Church or place of worship. Shall be subject to the bufferyard
regulations; however, no principal or accessory structure shall be located
within 20 feet of any adjoining property zoned R-6, R-6A, R-6MH, R-6S, R-9, R-
9S, R-15S, MR, MRS, RA-20 or PUD.
   (B)   Schools; public and private. Shall be subject to the bufferyard
regulations; however, no principal or accessory building shall be located
within 50 feet of any adjoining property or public street right-of-way line.
   (C)   Municipal government building or use. When municipal buildings, parks
or other recreational areas to be used for athletic events or night programs
are located in a residential zone or adjoining a lot containing a permitted
residential use, a legislative hearing shall be properly advertised and
conducted before the City Council for the purposes of hearing and considering
any comments by the public as to the location under consideration.
   (D)   Family care home.
      (1)   For purposes of this section, a family care home shall be as
defined herein.
      (2)   Family care homes shall be deemed a residential use of property and
shall be permissible in all residential districts subject to subsection (D)(3)
below.
      (3)   No family care home shall be permitted within a one-fourth-mile
(1,320 foot) radius of an existing family care home as measured from the
nearest lot line.
      (4)   The Board of Adjustment may grant a reasonable accommodation to the
one-fourth-mile (1,320 foot) separation requirement established by subsection
(D)(3) above in accordance with the provisions of this subsection in order to
allow for a reasonable accommodation under the Federal Fair Housing Act.
         (a)   The Board of Adjustment shall grant a reasonable accommodation
under the Federal Fair Housing Act to the one-fourth-mile (1,320 foot)
separation requirement established by subsection (D)(3) above if the Board
finds from the evidence produced that the proposed accommodation is reasonable
and necessary.
            1.   Reasonable. Factors which may be considered to determine
whether an accommodation is reasonable include but are not limited to the
following:
               a.   The legitimate purposes and effects of existing zoning
regulations are not undermined by the accommodation;
               b.   The benefits that the accommodation provides to individuals
with disabilities;
               c.   Alternatives to the accommodation do not exist which
accomplish the benefits more efficiently; and
               d.   A significant financial and administrative burden is not
imposed by the accommodation upon the city.
            2.   Necessary. Factors which may be considered to determine
whether an accommodation is necessary include but are not limited to the
following:
               a.   Direct or meaningful amelioration of the effects of the
particular disability or handicap is provided by the accommodation; and
               b.   Individuals with disabilities are afforded by the
accommodation equal opportunity to enjoy and use housing in residential
neighborhoods.
         (b)   The procedures governing the consideration of a special use as
established by state law and the rules of procedure of the Board of Adjustment
shall apply to the consideration of a reasonable accommodation under the
Federal Fair Housing Act to the one-fourth-mile (1,320 foot) separation
requirement established by subsection (D)(3) above. In determining whether to
grant a reasonable accommodation under the Federal Fair Housing Act to the one-
fourth-mile (1,320 foot) separation requirement established by subsection (D)
(3) above, the general criteria set forth in section
9-4-81 may be considered when determining whether the accommodation is
reasonable and necessary in accordance with subsection (D)(4)(a) above.
         (c)   In granting a reasonable accommodation under the Federal Fair
Housing Act to the one-fourth-mile (1,320 foot) separation requirement
established by subsection (D)(3) above, the Board of Adjustment may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards to ensure the purposes of this chapter.
   (E)   Bona fide farms.
      (1)   Buildings and structures shall meet the minimum standards for the
applicable district. Bona fide farm buildings and structures located in a
residential district shall meet applicable single-family dwelling standards.
      (2)   Agricultural cultivation shall be exempt from any required
setbacks, provided no structures are required or utilized within the setbacks
listed under subsection (E)(1) above.
      (3)   Bufferyard vegetation standards shall not apply to any bona fide
farm.
   (F)   Temporary field office.
      (1)   Shall be limited to 90 days; however, applicable permits may be
renewed as necessary.
      (2)   No living quarters shall be allowed.
      (3)   May only be utilized in conjunction with construction activity.
   (G)   Condominium (unit ownership) and townhouse type development. Attached
residential and nonresidential units constructed for individual owner occupancy
shall be subject to the following:
      (1)   Interior units of each structure may be constructed on common
property lines (zero lot line setbacks) provided the overall structure meets
the side, rear and public or private street setback for the applicable use and
district. If there is an offset of the wall from the interior common lot line
the offset shall be set back not less than five feet.
      (2)   No two units shall be considered attached unless the units share a
five-foot common party wall.
      (3)   Common party walls shall be constructed in accordance with the
North Carolina State Building Code, G.S. Chapter 47C (the North Carolina
Condominium Act) and other applicable requirements.
      (4)   The overall density of the development shall be no greater than
that permitted by applicable district requirements.
      (5)   The maximum lot coverage for the district shall apply to the
development.
      (6)   Buildings, units or lots separated by a public street right-of-way
shall be considered individually for compliance under subsections (G)(4) and
(5) above.
      (7)   In the case of staggered or extended common property line walls, a
five-foot maintenance and access easement with a maximum two-foot eave
encroachment easement within the maintenance easement shall be established on
the adjoining lot and shall assure ready access to the lot line wall for normal
maintenance. Designated common area which satisfies such access shall meet the
requirements of this section.
      (8)   The minimum lot width of each townhouse lot shall be no less than
16 feet, provided that when the lot is combined with other contiguous lots
within the development the combined lot widths are equal to or exceed the
minimum lot width of the prevailing district for the particular use. Townhouse
lots having preliminary or final subdivision plat approval prior to April 9,
1981 may have a minimum lot width of 14 feet.
      (9)   All development regulated in accordance with this section shall be
subject to the requirements, conditions and restrictions of the subdivision
regulations.
   (H)   Circus, carnival or fairs; temporary only.
      (1)   The maximum frequency of such temporary use shall not exceed one
occurrence within any 12-month period and the maximum duration of the temporary
use shall not exceed ten days per occurrence.
      (2)   No associated activity or storage area, temporary structure, tent,
booth, stand, mechanical ride or apparatus or the like shall be located or
operated within 500 feet of any residential zoning district.
      (3)   No such use shall be operated or conducted between the hours of 11:
00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
      (4)   Such use shall be subject to applicable setback, parking space
requirements and other standards for the district and use; however, the use
shall be exempt from the vegetation and parking lot surface improvement
standards.
      (5)   No permanent building, structure or facility shall be located on
any lot for the exclusive purpose of operating any temporary use.
      (6)   Signage shall be allowed in accordance with Article N.
      (7)   Prior to any operation, a site plan of sufficient detail to ensure
compliance with required standards shall be submitted to the city for review
and approval of the temporary use.
   (I)   Satellite dish antennas.
      (1)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to allow the use of
satellite dish antennas in both residential and nonresidential districts in a
manner which will best provide and ensure:
         (a)   The health, safety and welfare of the people by ensuring
adequate line of sight clearance of the motoring public and adequate light and
air to adjacent properties; and
         (b)   That the aesthetic quality of the city and environs is
maintained by minimizing visual obstruction to streetscapes and vistas to and
from adjacent properties.
      (2)   Satellite dish antenna standards.
         (a)   Sight distance area observed. No satellite dish antenna
regardless of size (diameter) and district shall be located within any street
sight distance area as described and defined under Title 6, Chapter 2 of the
Greenville City Code, whether or not the area has been dedicated by easement or
notation on any plat or plan. For purposes of this section all private streets
and/or driveways shall be construed as nonthoroughfare streets.
         (b)   Satellite dish antenna standards; residential districts
specifically. (See also subsections (I)(2)(d) and (e).)
            1.   Location.
               a.   Except as otherwise provided, dish antennas may be located
in the rear yard and shall not be located in any front or side yard.
               b.   Dish antennas which exceed 80 inches in diameter shall be
prohibited from roof tops.
            2.   Setbacks.
               a.   Not less than the principal building setback for the
district, except as otherwise provided.
               b.   Dish antennas which exceed 80 inches in diameter shall be
prohibited from roof tops.
            3.   Height.
               a.   Except as otherwise provided under subsection (I)(2)(b)3.b.
below, the height of any dish antenna shall not exceed the height of the
existing principal building or district maximum height, whichever is less.
               b.   In cases where the provisions of this subsection will not
allow a dish antenna of at least 15 feet in height, then the requirements of
this subsection shall be waived to allow a dish antenna of 15 feet or less in
height at the option of the owner. All other provisions of this section shall
apply.
         (c)   Satellite dish antenna standards; nonresidential districts
specifically. (See also subsections (I)(2)(d) and (e).) Except as otherwise
provided, the location, setback and height of any dish antenna shall be in
accordance with the district minimum established for the principal use and per
Article G.
         (d)   Exemptions.
            1.   Residential districts. Except as otherwise provided under
subsection (I)(2)(e) below, within any residential district any dish antenna
that is 40 inches or less in diameter shall be exempt from the requirements set
forth under subsection (I)(2)(b) above.
            2.   Nonresidential districts. Except as otherwise provided under
subsection (I)(2)(e) below, within any nonresidential district any satellite
dish antenna that is 80 inches or less in diameter shall be exempt from the
requirements set forth under subsection (I)(2)(c) above.
         (e)   Historic districts and historic property and/or landmark
application.
            1.   a.   Within any Historic District (HD) Overlay District and/or
for any individually designated historic property and/or landmark, no dish
antenna shall be located except in conformance with this section and the
applicable requirements set forth under
Title 9, Chapter 7, Historic Preservation Commission, of the City Code and
associated Design Standards Handbook, City of Greenville Historic Preservation
Commission; and
               b.   No dish antenna regardless of size (diameter) shall be
erected in any front yard, side yard or public street setback area unless the
owner by competent and accepted engineering analysis certifies and demonstrates
to the Historic Preservation Commission that reception will be materially
limited due to compliance with this section and that there is no available
location at the rear of the principal structure and outside any front yard,
side yard or public street setback area where service can be obtained; and
               c.   Where application of this section imposes additional
minimal costs on the erection of any dish antenna, the additional minimal costs
shall not be construed as a limit on any alternate available location for
obtaining service.
            2.   The Historic Preservation Commission may seek the advice of
any competent authority concerning the accuracy and sufficiency of any
engineering analysis submitted for consideration under this section.
   (J)   Stables and/or kennels.
      (1)   Shall be located no closer than 100 feet to any existing dwelling
or residential district; and
      (2)   Shall otherwise meet the minimum dimensional standards and setbacks
within the applicable district, except as provided under subsection (J)(1)
above.
   (K)   Hotel, motel, bed and breakfast inn.
      (1)   In addition to the specific requirements listed below under
subsections (K)(2) and (3), all hotel, motel, bed and breakfast inns including
both limited and extended stay lodging facilities shall be subject to the
following requirements:
         (a)   No lodging unit shall be occupied by more than one family. See
also definition of family.
         (b)   The lodging facility shall contain a registration office or area
which is staffed 24 hours per day during all periods of operation. A resident
manager, supervisor or caretaker shall qualify for purposes of this section.
         (c)   Housekeeping services shall be provided. Housekeeping services
shall include but not be limited to: changing linen, cleaning bathroom and
kitchen areas, removal of trash, dusting and vacuuming.
         (d)   Shall be designed and marketed in a fashion that reflects the
intended use for transient lodgers. No person other than an approved resident
manager, supervisor or caretaker shall utilize, consider or reference any
lodging unit as a secondary or primary place of residence.
         (e)   The lodging facility may contain restaurants, meeting rooms,
indoor recreation facilities, lounges, outdoor swimming pool, entertainment
facilities, retail sales of personal accessories for occupants, maid and bell
boy service, laundry services, telephone and secretarial services, as accessory
uses.
         (f)   Lodging units which contain cooking facilities must provide a
sink which shall be located in the cooking area and shall be in addition to any
sink provided for bathroom or bathing purposes.
         (g)   No lodging unit shall share kitchen or cooking facilities with
any other lodging unit.
      (2)   Limited stay lodging facilities shall be subject to the following
additional requirements:
         (a)   Lodging shall be limited to daily or weekly periods not to
exceed 30 continuous days.
         (b)   Housekeeping services shall be provided on a daily basis.
         (c)   Not more than 25% of the units may have kitchen and/or cooking
facilities.
      (3)   Extended stay lodging facilities shall be subject to the following
additional requirements.
         (a)   Lodging shall be limited to daily, weekly or monthly periods,
not to exceed 90 continuous days.
         (b)   Housekeeping services shall be provided on a weekly basis or
other more frequent period at the option of the owner/operator.
         (c)   Each extended stay unit may contain kitchen and/or cooking
facilities.
   (L)   Tents.
      (1)   For purposes of this section, the term “tent” shall be construed to
include any temporary shelter, canopy or enclosure of canvas, fabric, plastic
film or other stretch material supported and sustained by a pole(s) and/or guy
line(s).
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided, this section shall apply to any
commercial, office, institutional, industrial or public assembly activity which
utilizes a tent and is conducted as a principal or accessory use regardless of
district.
      (3)   The following shall be exempt from the provisions of this section,
provided the tent structure(s) and use thereof comply with all applicable
requirements, including but not limited to zoning, building code, fire code and
flood damage prevention regulations.
         (a)   Awnings attached to and supported by a building.
         (b)   Temporary funeral tents at grave sites.
         (c)   Temporary noncommercial private special event tents as an
accessory activity to a residential dwelling.
         (d)   Temporary noncommercial recreational camp tents as an accessory
activity to a residential dwelling or within an approved campground.
      (4)   No tent shall be utilized as a permanent principal or accessory
structure. Tents shall only be utilized on a limited duration basis in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   Tents that are utilized for principal use purposes shall be
subject to the requirements and conditions of a temporary use in accordance
with Article B of this chapter.
         (b)   Tents that are utilized for accessory use purposes shall be
subject to all of the following requirements:
            1.   Not more than one tent shall be displayed on any lot at any
one time.
            2.   No tent shall be erected for more than 30 consecutive days.
            3.   No lot or establishment shall utilize any tent(s) for more
than four separate events within any calendar year.
         (c)   For purposes of this subsection (L)(4), the term “lot” shall be
construed to include all contiguous parcels occupied by an establishment.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided, tents shall be setback not less than
the principal building setback applicable for the district and in accordance
with the bufferyard setback regulations. Support poles, guy lines and stakes
may encroach into the street right-of-way setback, provided the encroachments
are set back not less than the applicable bufferyard setback.
      (6)   No tent shall be located within a street sight distance area as
defined per
Title 6, Chapter 2 of the Greenville City Code.
      (7)   No tent shall be located so as to obstruct a fire lane; public
sidewalk; fire hydrant; building entrance way or emergency exit; public alley;
public utility; active driveway, parking lot drive isle or required parking
space; garbage/trash container or other area which in the opinion of the
Building Inspector would constitute a hazard or danger to the public.
      (8)   No tent shall be located within a stormwater detention area or
structure except as specifically approved by the City Engineer or designee.
      (9)   No tent shall be located within a floodway as defined per
Chapter 6 of this Title.
      (10)   No tent shall be located within an area of special flood hazard as
defined per Chapter 6 of this Title, except as specifically approved by the
City Engineer or designee.
      (11)   All tents shall display a fire retardant certificate approved by
the Chief of Fire Rescue or his or her authorized representative.
      (12)   The proposed use of each separate tent shall be included on the
zoning compliance and building permit application. No new use or change of use,
other than as specifically approved under the current permit, shall be allowed
except upon reapplication and approval.
      (13)   No tent shall utilize active or mechanical heat and/or air
conditioning, electric service and/or artificial lighting or water/wastewater
disposal facilities except as specifically approved by the Building Inspector.
      (14)   All above-grade tent guy line stakes shall be cushioned in a
manner approved by the Building Inspector.
      (15)   All tent support guy lines shall be of a fluorescent color and/or
flagged in a manner approved by the Building Inspector.
      (16)   Tents shall be exempt from and shall not count towards the maximum
lot coverage requirement for the district.
      (17)   Tents and the use thereof shall comply with all applicable fire
and building code requirements.
      (18)   In addition to other requirements, tents utilized for accessory
residential purposes shall comply with section
9-4-100 of this article.
   (M)   Christmas tree sales lot; temporary only.
      (1)   Such use must qualify as a temporary use per Article B of this
chapter.
      (2)   Christmas tree sales lots located within an OR (Office-Residential)
District shall be subject to the following requirements:
         (a)   No portion of a sales lot shall be located within 100 feet,
including public street rights-of-way, of a residential zoning district.
         (b)   For purposes of this section, the term “sales lot” shall be
constructed as any portion of a parcel which is utilized for Christmas tree
sales including display areas and related activities and any accessory sales
office.
   (N)   Mobile home.
      (1)   No mobile home established (new setup) or relocated within the city
planning and zoning jurisdiction shall be occupied until the mobile home has
been inspected and approved for compliance with the Minimum Housing Code set
forth under
Title 9, Chapter 1, Article F of the City Code when the Building Inspector
makes a finding of noncompliance with the Minimum Housing Code.
      (2)   Mobile homes shall, upon installation, have either a permanent,
continuous masonry foundation, or a continuous and opaque skirt consisting of
vinyl, fiberglass or other similar solid nonmetal material. The skirt for a
mobile home shall be attached to weather resistant material when required for
support.
   (O)   Restaurant; fast food and/or restaurant; conventional utilizing drive-
through services. Except as further provided, whenever a proposed restaurant is
to be located adjacent to a permitted residential use, or a residential zoning
district, the following minimum standards shall be required:
      (1)   The restaurant principal structure shall maintain a public street
(front yard) setback not less than the adjoining residential zoning district;
      (2)   The restaurant principal structure shall maintain a side and rear
yard setback not less than 25 feet from any property line which abuts a
residential zoning district or a permitted residential use;
      (3)   The maximum height of the restaurant principal and/or accessory
structure(s) shall not exceed 35 feet; and
      (4)   Any exterior menu reader board or order station which contains an
audio speaker(s) shall be set back not less than 50 feet from any side or rear
property line which abuts a permitted residential use or residential zoning
district, and the speaker shall be oriented and directed away from any adjacent
permitted residential use or residential zoning district in a manner approved
by the Director of Planning and Development Services or his or her designee,
and the requirement shall be indicated upon an approved site plan. Separation
of the speaker from an adjacent permitted residential use or residential zoning
district by an intervening nonresidential building or structure of sufficient
dimension to negate or block the transmission of sound may, upon approval of
the Director of Planning and Development Services or his or her designee,
substitute for the speaker setback, orientation or direction standards of this
section. No exterior menu reader board or order station shall be utilized or
operated in a manner which constitutes a nuisance or hazard to the general
public.
(Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006)
   (P)   Restaurant, conditional and/or restaurant, fast food; records
retention requirement. Records related to the sale of prepared and/or packaged
food in a ready-to-consume state and the sale of all other products and
services shall be maintained on premises for not less than one year and shall
be open for inspection or audit at all reasonable hours during any period of
establishment operation by the Zoning Enforcement Officer. The Zoning
Enforcement Officer may view the records on the premises of the establishment
or may request copies of the written records be delivered to the city. Records
of sales of prepared and/or packaged food in a ready-to-consume state and the
sale of all other products and services shall be filed separate and apart from
all other records maintained on the premises. The requirements of this section
shall be for the purpose of determining the portion of sales attributed to the
sale of prepared and/or packaged food in a ready-to-consume state. Failure to
provide all records required by this section in a timely manner, to be
determined by the city, upon written request of the Zoning Enforcement Officer
shall constitute a violation of the zoning regulations.
(Ord. No. 09-27, § 10, passed 4-9-2009)
   (Q)   Television and radio broadcast, cellular telephone, wireless
communication towers and distributed antenna systems (DAS).
      (1)   Towers located within a CG District shall be subject to all of the
following requirements:
         (a)   Shall not exceed 200 feet in height above the adjacent grade, as
measured to the highest point, including the support structure and any
communication equipment;
         (b)   Shall be a monopole or other self-supporting structure that does
not utilize or require guy-wire or other similar support; and
         (c)   Co-location of television, radio, cellular telephone or other
wireless communication equipment shall be permitted on all tower(s), provided
compliance with all requirements.
      (2)   Towers located within an OR District shall be subject to all of the
following requirements:
         (a)   Shall not exceed 120 feet in height above the adjacent grade, as
measured to the highest point, including the support structure and any
communication equipment;
         (b)   Shall be a monopole structure that does not utilize or require
guy-wire or other similar support;
         (c)   Shall be located on a two-acre or larger lot, hereafter referred
to as the “parent lot.” A tower lease lot of less than two acres within the
two-acre or larger parent lot that includes the tower structure, tower
accessory structures, ground level mechanical and/or communication equipment,
fencing, landscaping, attendant parking, and drives shall be permitted,
provided compliance with all requirements;
         (d)   No tower shall be located within a 500-foot radius of any other
existing or vested tower located in an OR District as measured from the center
of the towers;
         (e)   Except as provided in subsection (Q)(2)(f) of this section, the
tower structure shall be set back from all perimeter property lines of the
parent lot either a distance equal to the total tower height, or in accordance
with the bufferyard regulations, whichever is greater;
         (f)   The tower structure shall be setback from any residential zoned
lot or tract either a distance equal to twice the total tower height, or 200
feet, whichever is greater;
         (g)   For purposes of subsections (Q)(2)(e) and (f) above, the
required setback shall be measured from the outside edge of the base of the
tower structure to the nearest property line or zoning boundary line; and
         (h)   Co-location of television, radio, cellular telephone, or other
wireless communication equipment shall be permitted on all tower(s), provided
compliance with all requirements.
      (3)   Towers located within the MCH, MCG, MS, MI, and/or MO Districts
shall be subject to all of the following requirements:
         (a)   Shall not exceed 80 feet in height above the adjacent grade, as
measured to the highest point, including the support structure and any
communication equipment;
         (b)   Shall be a monopole structure that does not utilize or require
guy-wire or other similar support;
         (c)   Shall be located on a one-acre or larger lot, hereafter referred
to as the “parent lot”. A tower lease lot of less than one-acre within the one-
acre or larger parent lot that includes the tower structure, tower accessory
structures, ground level mechanical and/or communication equipment, fencing,
landscaping, attendant parking, and drives shall be permitted, provided
compliance with all requirements;
         (d)   No tower shall be located within a 500-foot radius of any other
existing or vested tower as measured from the center of the towers;
         (e)   The tower structure shall be setback from any residential zoned
lot or tract a distance equal to 75% of the tower height. The required setback
shall be measured from the outside edge of the base of the tower structure to
the nearest property line or zoning boundary line; and
         (f)   Co-location of television, radio, cellular telephone, or other
wireless communication equipment shall be permitted on all tower(s), provided
compliance with all requirements.
      (4)   Digital antenna systems (DAS) located within right-of-way, on city
owned infrastructure, on Greenville Utilities Commission owned infrastructure
and/or on city property shall be subject to all of the following requirements
even if they are intended to replace existing light poles, utility poles or
similar structures or are proposed as free-standing towers. Only the minimal
use of the public right-of-way and/or city owned and Greenville Utilities
Commission owned infrastructure is allowed because the space in the right-of-
way should be reserved for public utilities and should be free of safety
hazards. In addition, telecommunications facilities located in the right-of-way
and mounted on city owned and Greenville Utilities Commission owned
infrastructure have the potential of being very visible to pedestrians and the
traveling public. In order to locate in a public right-of-way, the size and
visibility of DAS equipment and their support structures must use be minimized.
Application and permitting of DAS equipment are subject to review procedures in
Title 6, Chapter 2:
         (a)   DAS located within right-of-way, on city owned infrastructure,
on Greenville Utility Commission owned infrastructure, replacing existing power
or lights poles owned by the City or Greenville Utilities Commission and/or on
city owned property within any district and adjacent to a designated major or
minor thoroughfare except within the CD District, shall be subject to all of
the following requirements:
            1.   The height of DAS equipment, including support poles, whether
they are replacing existing light posts, are mounted to existing light posts or
are freestanding poles shall not exceed 35 feet above grade, including the top
of an antenna.
            2.   Where ground-mounted equipment and support poles are proposed
on city owned sidewalks, there must be a minimum of five feet of unobstructed
sidewalk remaining for pedestrians to pass by the installation or as determined
by the Director of Engineering.
            3.   The location of DAS equipment and support structures must not
restrict sight triangles of pedestrians or motorists to roadway intersections
and public or private driveways.
         (b)   DAS located within right-of-way, on city owned infrastructure,
on Greenville Utility Commission owned infrastructure, replacing existing power
or lights poles owned by the City or Greenville Utilities Commission and/or on
city owned property within the CD District, shall be subject to all of the
following requirements:
            1.   The height of DAS equipment, including support poles, whether
they are replacing existing light posts, are mounted to existing light posts or
are freestanding poles shall not exceed 35 feet above grade, including the
antenna, must not have antennas longer than six feet, must be painted to match
the color of the poles.
            2.   Ground-mounted DAS accessory equipment is not allowed in the
CD district.
            3.   Where DAS support poles are proposed on city owned sidewalks,
there must be a minimum of five feet of unobstructed sidewalk remaining for
pedestrians to pass by the installation or as determined by the Director of
Engineering.
            4.   The location of DAS equipment and support structures must not
restrict sight triangles of pedestrians or motorists to roadway intersections
and public or private driveways.
            5.   DAS equipment shall be painted to match the poles to which
they are affixed or shall match the color of city-owned and Greenville
Utilities Commission owned light poles if they are new or are replacing light
poles and shall be designed to minimize the visibility of cables and other
appurtenances.
   (R)   Portable temporary storage unit.
      (1)   No individual unit shall exceed 320 square feet in floor surface
storage area.
      (2)   No storage unit shall be utilized as a principal use structure.
      (3)   Except as further provided below under subsection (R)(10), not more
than two units totaling 320 square feet in combined total floor surface storage
area shall be permitted concurrently on any residential zoned lot and/or on any
lot used for residential purposes. Exempt from this requirement are lots
containing residential quarters for resident managers, supervisors or
caretakers as set forth under section
9-4-78 and
Appendix A to this chapter. For purposes of this section, the on-site and/or
right-of-way placement of the first unit shall begin the running of time set
forth under subsection (R)(7) below. See also subsection (R)(8) below.
      (4)   Except as further provided below under subsection (R)(10), not more
than three units totaling 960 square feet in combined floor surface storage
area shall be permitted concurrently on any non-residential zoned lot and/or on
any lot used for commercial, office, institutional and/or industrial purposes.
For purposes of this section, the on-site and/or right-of-way placement of the
first unit shall begin the running of time set forth under subsection (R)(7)
below. See also subsection (R)(9) below.
      (5)   Except as further provided below under subsection (R)(10), all unit
(s) subject to this subsection shall be located on an improved parking surface
in accordance with Article O. Units located on any site for 336 continuous
hours or less may be located on an unimproved surface.
      (6)   Except as further provided below under subsection (R)(10), no unit
on-site parking area, in addition to other improved on-site vehicle parking
areas, shall exceed 30% of the front yard area of a single-family dwelling lot
or more than 40% of any two-family attached dwelling lot in accordance with
Article O.
      (7)   Except as further provided below under subsection (R)(10), the
maximum duration of any temporary unit located on any lot shall not exceed 120
continuous days or more than 120 total days in any 12-month period. The
placement of the first unit shall begin the running of time under this
subsection.
      (8)   Except as further provided below under subsection (R)(10), the
maximum frequency of any temporary unit located on any residential zoned lot
and/or on any lot used for residential purposes shall not exceed three separate
occurrences in any 12-month period. Exempt from this requirement are lots
containing residential quarters for resident managers, supervisors or
caretakers as set forth under section
9-4-78 and
Appendix A. Each separate period of one or more concurrently placed units shall
count toward the maximum frequency.
      (9)   Except as further provided below under subsection (R)(10), the
maximum frequency of any temporary unit located on any non-residential zoned
lot and/or on any lot used for commercial, office, institutional and/or
industrial purposes shall not exceed three separate occurrences in any 12-month
period. Each separate period of one or more concurrently placed units shall
count toward the maximum frequency.
      (10)   Placement in conjunction with an active construction permit,
natural disaster damage repair permit or other building permit may exceed the
maximum number, duration and frequency set forth above under subsections (R)
(3), (4), (7), (8) and (9) above, and the improved parking surface material and
maximum coverage requirements set forth above under subsections (R)(5) and (6),
provided the unit(s) shall be removed immediately following completion of the
associated permit activity; provided, however, no unit(s) located on a single-
family or duplex lot, excepting placement in conjunction with a building permit
for the construction of the principal dwelling(s) and/or in conjunction with a
natural disaster damage repair permit for any single- family or duplex dwelling
(s), shall exceed 180 continuous days. Maximum frequency under this section
shall not exceed one occurrence in any 12-month period.
      (11)   When located on property containing a principal residential use
the unit shall only be used for temporary incidental residential accessory use
purposes. No unit located on any principal use residential property shall be
used for commercial, office, institutional and/or industrial purposes or
storage. No unit shall be used in conjunction with any home occupation.
      (12)   The unit may temporarily displace minimum required parking for the
associated principal use dwelling or nonresidential use.
      (13)   Any unit located on a residential lot may encroach into the
minimum public and/or private street (MBL) setback; provided, however, no unit
shall be located within any public street right-of-way or private street
easement, except as further provided. No such unit shall be located in any
minimum side and/or rear yard setback or minimum bufferyard setback applicable
to an accessory structure except when located on an existing improved driveway
or qualified parking area. A unit may be located within a public street right-
of-way upon issuance of an encroachment agreement from the authority having
jurisdiction, provided compliance with all other provisions of this section.
      (14)   Any unit located on a commercial, office, institutional and/or
industrial lot may encroach into the minimum public and/or private street (MBL)
setback, provided however no unit shall be located within any minimum perimeter
and/or street bufferyard.
      (15)   No unit shall encroach within the “area of minimum protection (by
plant material type)” set forth under section
9-4-265(G)(2) for required vegetation.
      (16)   No unit shall contain or receive permanent or temporary electric
service, water and/or sanitary sewer service.
      (17)   No unit shall be used for human or animal occupancy.
      (18)   The unit shall comply with Accessory Structure Building Code
placement, tie-down and other applicable standards as determined by the
Building Inspector in the particular case.
      (19)   Except as further provided, no unit shall be stored in any public
street right-of-way or private street easement. A licensed motor vehicle unit
or wheeled trailer unit attached to a licensed motor vehicle may be stored in
the street right-of-way or street easement on a temporary basis in accordance
with this section and applicable zoning and traffic regulations. A unit may be
located within a public street right-of-way upon issuance of an encroachment
agreement from the authority having jurisdiction, provided compliance with all
other provisions of this section.
      (20)   Permanent signage attached to a licensed motor vehicle unit,
licensed wheeled trailer unit or other non-wheeled container unit transported
to the lot on a removable chassis shall be exempt from the sign regulations;
provided, however, any permanent use of any unit shall not be exempt from the
sign regulations.
      (21)   No unit shall be located in any street sight distance area, or in
any manner that obstructs vehicle or pedestrian access or lines of sight.
      (22)   No unit shall be located and/or used in any manner that creates a
nuisance, public health or safety hazard. When a nuisance, public health or
safety hazard condition is found to exist, the owner of the lot and/or unit
shall immediately remove the unit to a location in compliance with this section
following personal and/or written notice from any building Inspector, nuisance
abatement officer or Zoning Enforcement Officer. Any location or use
inconsistent with the provisions of this section shall be construed as both a
nuisance and a violation of the zoning regulations.
      (23)   No unit shall be located in any manner that obstructs any
designated fire lane or that otherwise obstructs or blocks access to any fire
hydrant, building or structure.
      (24)   Except as provided above under subsection (R)(18) above, no
additional permit shall be required for any unit regulated under this section.
      (25)   Any storage units to be located and used as permanent accessory
structures on a nonresidential zoned lot and/or on any lot used for commercial,
office, institutional and/or industrial purposes shall meet the minimum
requirements applicable to an accessory building and/or structure for the
district and use as well as the following:
            (a)   The number of units that may be located and utilized as
permanent accessory structures will be determined by the size of the lot on
which the unit(s) is (are) proposed to be located as follows:
               1.   If the lot is one acre or less in area, then no more than
one unit totaling no more than 320 square feet in total floor surface storage
area may be utilized as a permanent accessory structure.
               2.   If the lot is greater than one acre, but less than three
acres in area, than no more than two units totaling no more than 640 square
feet in combined total floor surface storage area may be utilized as permanent
accessory structures.
               3.   If the lot is three acres or greater in area, then no more
than three units totaling no more than 960 square feet in combined total floor
surface storage area may be utilized as permanent accessory structures.
            (b)   No storage unit shall be used as a permanent accessory
structure in the CD or CDF Districts.
      (26)   No storage unit shall be used as a permanent accessory structure
or building on any residential zoned lot and/or on any lot containing a
residential use; provided, however, lots containing residential quarters for
resident managers, supervisors or caretakers as set forth under section
9-4-78 and
Appendix A shall be exempt from this requirement.
   (S)   Reserved.
   (T)   Golf course, 18-hole regulation length and/or golf course, nine-hole
regulation length. A golf course; 18-hole regulation length and/or golf course,
nine-hole regulation length, or portion thereof, located within a residential
district shall be subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   A golf course, 18-hole regulation length, may include an accessory
use member-guest only dining facility and/or a public restaurant, snack bar,
pro-shop, member-guest only social club, tennis courts, swimming facilities
and/or other customarily associated golf course activity, which is open to
members, guests and/or the general public.
      (2)   A golf course, nine-hole regulation length, may include an
accessory use member-guest only dining facility, snack bar, pro-shop, member-
guest only social club, tennis courts, swimming facilities and/or other
customarily associated golf course activity, which is open to members, guests
and/or the general public, unless otherwise provided. A nine-hole regulation
length course shall not contain an accessory public restaurant.
      (3)   Accessory public restaurant facilities must be located within the
principal use golf course structure (i.e., golf clubhouse) and shall not be
located in a separate and detached single-use stand-alone structure. Outdoor
seating and dining areas shall be subject to subsection (T)(5) below. No public
restaurant may be located in any detached accessory structure.
      (4)   Except as further provided under subsection (T)(6) below, accessory
public restaurant hours shall be limited to the period 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
No food or beverage may be sold to the general public prior to 7:00 a.m. or
after 10:00 p.m. of any day.
      (5)   Except as further provided under subsection (T)(6) below, no
accessory public “restaurant; outdoor activity” area shall be located within
300 feet, as measured to the closest point, of any abutting residential lot or
parcel located within a residential district which allows single-family
dwellings as a permitted use.
      (6)   An accessory public restaurant associated with a golf course may
provide food services for golf course and/or golf club sponsored member-guest
only events without regard to the limitations of subsections (T)(4) and (5).
      (7)   Restaurant drive-through and/or drive-in facilities and services
shall be prohibited.
      (8)   Golf course signage, including accessory use identification
signage, shall be in accordance with section
9-4-233(L).
      (9)   For purposes of this section, the term “public restaurant” shall be
construed as an eating establishment as defined herein under the term
“restaurant, conventional,” that is open to the general public, and is not
restricted to members and their guests, or patrons of the golf course.
   (U)   Reserved.
   (V)   Beekeeping; minor use. 
      (1)   The standards, requirements, conditions and restrictions of section
12-2-27(c) shall apply for locations and uses both within the city limits and
within the extraterritorial jurisdiction.
   (W)   Reserved.
   (X)   Shelters for the homeless or abused located within the OR District.
Shall be located on a parcel of land no less than 0.5 acre in area.
   (Y)   Internet sweepstakes business (see also section
9-4-22).
      (1)   No internet sweepstakes business shall be located within a one-half
mile (2,640 foot) radius of an existing or approved internet sweepstakes
business.
      (2)   No internet sweepstakes business shall be located within a 500-foot
radius of the following:
         (a)   An existing conforming use single-family dwelling located in any
district;
         (b)   Any single-family residential zoning district; and
         (c)   An existing or approved school, church, park or multi-family
use.
      (3)   The measurements associated with subsections (1) and (2) above
shall be made from the exterior wall of the proposed internet sweepstakes
business to the nearest exterior wall of any existing or approved internet
sweepstakes business, existing conforming use single-family dwelling located in
any district, or existing or approved school, church or multi-family use. The
measurement shall be made from the exterior wall of the proposed internet
sweepstakes business to the nearest property line of any single-family
residential zoning district or park.
      (4)   No internet sweepstakes business shall be located within any
certified redevelopment area.
      (5)   The use shall be conducted within a completely enclosed building
with no outside congregation of customers permitted for any purpose.
   (Z)   Major or Minor repair facilities.
      (1)   All tires displayed outside shall comply with section
9-4-86(B)(7). All tires stored outside shall comply with section
9-4-86(B)(9).
   (AA)   Hookah Café (see also section
9-4-22).
      (1)   No hookah café shall be located within a one-fourth mile (1,320
foot) radius of an existing or approved hookah café.
   (BB)   Tobacco Shop (Class 1) (see also section
9-4-22).
      (1)   No tobacco shop (class 1) shall be located within a 500-foot radius
of an existing or approved school. This measurement shall be made from the
exterior wall of the proposed tobacco shop (class 1) to the nearest exterior
wall of any existing or approved school.
      (2)   No tobacco shop (class 1) shall be located within any certified
redevelopment area.
      (3)   No tobacco shop (class 1) shall be located within a one-half mile
(2,640 foot) radius of a tobacco shop (class 2).
   (CC)   Tobacco Shop (Class 2) (see also section
9-4-22).
      (1)   No tobacco shop (class 2) shall be located within a one-half mile
(2,640 foot) radius of a tobacco shop (class 1) or tobacco shop (class 2).
      (2)   No tobacco shop (class 2) shall be located within a 500-foot radius
of the following:
         (a)   An existing conforming use single-family dwelling located in any
district;
         (b)   Any single-family residential zoning district; and
         (c)   An existing or approved school, church, park or multi-family
use.
      (3)   The measurements associated with divisions (BB)(1) and (2) above
shall be made from the exterior wall of the proposed tobacco shop (class 2) to
the nearest exterior wall of any existing or approved tobacco shop (class 1 or
2), existing conforming use single-family dwelling located in any district, or
existing or approved school, church or multi-family use. The measurement shall
be made from the exterior wall of the proposed tobacco shop (class 2) to the
nearest property line of any single-family residential zoning district or park.
      (4)   No tobacco shop (class 2) shall be located within any certified
redevelopment area.
   (DD)   Domestic Violence Center (see also section
9-4-22).
      (1)   The minimum lot size shall be 15,000 square feet.
      (2)   Maximum occupancy shall be in accordance with the North Carolina
State Building Code or not more than one person per each 500 square feet of lot
area, whichever is less.
      (3)   On-site supervision shall be maintained during all hours of
operation.
      (4)   Single-building development shall be in accordance with single-
family standards.
      (5)   Multiple-building development shall be in accordance with multi-
family development standards.
      (6)   Parking shall be required at a ratio of one space per every two
supervisors and one space per each 500 square feet of habitable floor area.
   (EE)   Digital broadcast studio.
      (1)   No living quarters shall be allowed.
      (2)   No transmission towers and/or monopoles are allowed.
   (FF)   Pet grooming facility.
      (1)   Pet grooming and holding will not extend before 7 a.m. or beyond 8
p.m.
      (2)   Standalone pet grooming facilities are not to include training,
exercise, socialization, keeping or boarding, breeding or sale or rental of
pets.
      (3)   In the event of a combined use within a single premise any and all
pet grooming activities shall occur exclusively within an enclosed area.
      (4)   In no event shall pets be kept outside of the structure for
purposes of grooming or holding.
   (II)   School; small, private.
      (1)   All associated recreational facilities shall be treated as an
accessory use.
      (2)   No musical concerts shall be held at any outdoor recreation field
located at the small private school. This prohibition shall in no aspect be
interpreted so as to preclude marching or other school bands practicing on any
such outdoor recreation field or performing during any sporting or other event,
including pep rallies.
      (3)   May be located on one or more parcels of land.
      (4)   All new driveways and new perimeter parking areas shall be placed
as far from abutting residential properties as is reasonably practical as
determined by the Director of Engineering or their designee.
      (5)   Parking requirements shall either comply with the Article O
requirements for School; elementary and junior high, or School; senior high
depending on grades served, k-8 and 9-12 respectively. In the event that any
outdoor recreation fields are located at a school serving grades k-8 then an
additional requirement of one space per 10 seats shall also be enforced.
      (6)   Loading and unloading of students shall be off-street.
      (7)   Maximum building coverage shall not exceed the underlying district
requirements.
      (8)   Notwithstanding the Noise Ordinance of the City of Greenville,
there shall be no amplified sound not related to ongoing athletic competitions
or school events. Operation of the sound and lighting components of the outdoor
recreational facilities by entities other than the associated school(s) shall
be limited to one occurrence per month. An occurrence means third party usage
of either the lights, amplified sound or both at once and will consist of one
event on one day. One week will be interpreted as being Monday - Sunday. No
amplified sound for said occurrence will be permitted past 9:00 p.m.
      (9)   On weekends (Friday - Saturday) the hours of operation for outdoor
recreation fields for any game, event, or practice shall not exceed one hour
after the end of the game, event, or practice and/or 11 p.m., whichever comes
first. On Sunday the hours of operation shall not exceed 5:00 p.m. On all other
days the hours of operation shall not exceed 9:30 p.m.
      (10)   No outdoor amplified sound equipment shall be operated prior to 9:
30 a.m.
      (11)   No outdoor amplified sound equipment shall produce a sustained
decibel level higher than 75 at an adjacent property line. Sustained shall be
taken to mean an average reading observed over the course of 20 seconds.
      (12)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions there shall be no
restriction on use of amplified sound equipment that produces 60db or less as
measured at any property line between the hours of 9:30 a.m. and 9:30 p.m.
      (13)   Lighting of outdoor sports fields and performance areas shall be
designed to meet the standards found in the document "Lighting Standards for
the City of Greenville" as well as in accordance with the following
requirements:
         (a)   All such lighting fixtures shall be equipped with a glare
control package (e.g., directional LED lighting, louvers, shields or similar
devices), and any fixtures shall be aimed so that their beams are directed
within the playing or performance area.
         (b)   Light levels at adjacent property lines shall not exceed ambient
light levels by 0.5 foot candles in any circumstance.
         (c)   Light measurement technique: Light level measurements shall be
made at the property line of the property upon which light to be measured is
being generated. Measurements will first be taken with the light off and then
with the light on to establish a baseline for ambient light conditions. If
measurement on private property is not possible or practical, light level
measurements may be made at the boundary of the public street right-of-way that
adjoins the property of the complainant or at any other location on the
property of the complainant. Measurements shall be made at finished grade
(ground level), with the light registering portion of the meter held parallel
to the ground pointing up. The meter shall have cosine and color correction and
have an accuracy tolerance of no greater than plus or minus five percent.
Measurements shall be taken with a light meter that has been calibrated within
two years. Light levels are specified, calculated and measured in foot candles.
         (d)   In the event a dispute between the City and the property owner
or lessee over the validity of any light measurements taken by the City arises,
then at the expense of the party disputing the claim, an independent engineer
may be hired to conduct new measurements. The engineer shall be licensed by the
state and shall take all measurements while accompanied by a representative of
the city. Both parties shall certify the readings on the independent engineer's
light meter and measurements shall be taken in the same way as described above
in section
9-4-103 (II)(7)(d).
   (JJ)   Reserved.
   (KK)     Data processing center.
      (1)   Systems, equipment, and structures (excluding electric transmission
lines and utility poles) shall not exceed 35 feet in height.
      (2)   Any electric wiring shall be located underground, except where
wiring is brought together for interconnection to system components and/or the
local utility power grid.
      (3)   No sound may exceed 30 (dB(A)) as measured from the property line.
      (4)   A sound study is required to determine that the operation of the
entire facility can comply with 9-4-103(KK)(3).
      (5)   The business owner shall provide a statement to the Planning and
Development Services Director from an acoustical consultant that the use
complies with the sound levels as prescribed in this section by January 31 of
every calendar year.
      (6)   Shall not be located within a 3,400-foot radius of an existing or
approved school, including but not limited to, public or private (kindergarten
or nursery, elementary, junior and senior high), and daycare facilities (child
or adult), as measured from property line to property line.
      (7)   Shall not be located within a 3,400-foot radius of an existing
conforming single-family dwelling in any district as measured from property
line to property line.
      (8)   Signage shall be in accordance with Article N. Signs.
      (9)   No grid-connected data processing system shall be installed until
evidence has been provided by the operator that installation of the system has
been approved by the electrical utility provider. Off-grid systems shall be
exempt from this requirement.
      (10)   All exterior lighting shall be designed and constructed with
cutoff and fully shielded fixtures that direct light downward and into the
interior of the property and away from adjacent roads and adjacent properties.
      (11)   Any structure or equipment associated with the facility that is
not operated for a continuous period of 180 days shall be considered abandoned,
and the city may require the owner to remove such structures and equipment
within 90 days after notice from the city. If the abandoned structure or
equipment is not removed within 90 days, the city may remove it and recover its
costs from the owner, whether the facility is located within the city limits or
not. If the owner of the abandoned structure or equipment cannot be located or
is no longer in business, the requirements of this section shall be the
responsibility of the landowner on whose property the structure or equipment is
located.
      (12)   Data shall not be processed between 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday
through Friday.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 2423, § 1, passed 2-13-1992;
Ord. No. 95-116, § 1, passed 11-9-1995; Ord. No. 96-80, § 4, passed 8-8-1996;
Ord. No. 97-5, §§ 3, 4, passed 1-9-1997; Ord. No. 97-85, §§ 1, 2, passed 8-14-
1997; Ord. No. 97-86, § 5, passed 8-14-1997; Ord. No. 98-21, § 1, passed 2-12-
1998; Ord. No. 98-67, § 2, passed 6-11-1998; Ord. No. 98-115, § 1, passed 9-10-
1998; Ord. No. 99-5, § 1, passed 1-14-1999; Ord. No. 00-19, § 8, passed 2-10-
2000; Ord. No. 03-31, § 4, passed 4-10-2003; Ord. No. 04-43, § 2, passed 5-13-
2004; Ord. No. 04-96, § 2, passed 8-12-2004; Ord. No. 04-143, § 2, passed 11-8-
2004; Ord. No. 05-64, § 3, passed 6-9-2005; Ord. No. 06-25, § 2, passed 3-9-06;
Ord. No. 06-93, § 2, passed 9-14-2006; Ord. No. 06-113, § 4, passed 11-9-2006;
Ord. No. 07-11, § 4, passed 1-11-2007; Ord. No. 09-27, § 9, passed 4-9-2009;
Ord. No. 10-83, § 2, passed 10-14-2010; Ord. No. 10-106, § 6, passed 12-9-2010;
Ord. No. 11-055, § 3, passed 9-8-2011; Ord. No. 11-078, § 2, passed 12-8-2011;
Ord. No. 12-004, § 1, passed 1-12-2012; Ord. No. 12-033, § 1, passed 8-9-2012;
Ord. No. 12-044, § 2, passed 10-11- 2012; Ord. No. 12-045, § 3, passed 10-11-
2012; Ord. No. 12-051, § 2, passed 11-8-2012; Ord. No. 12-069, § 2, passed 12-
13-2012; Ord. No. 13-007, § 3, passed 2-14-2013; Ord. No. 14-010, passed 2-13-
2014; Ord. No. 14-020, passed 4-10-2014; Ord. No. 15-019, § 3, passed 4-9-2015;
Ord. No. 16-003, § 3, passed 1-14-2016; Ord. No. 16-066, §§ 5, 6, passed 12-8-
2016; Ord. No. 17-036, § 1, passed 5-11-2017; Ord. No. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-
12-2019; Ord. No. 19-051, § 3, passed 10-10-2019; Ord. No. 19-052, § 3, passed
10-10-2019; Ord. No. 20-052, § 2, passed 9-14-2020; Ord. No. 20-059, § 2,
passed 10-19-2020; Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021; Ord. No. 21-058, §
1, passed 11-8-2021; Ord. No. 22-013, § 6, passed 1-24-2022; Ord. No. 22-014,
§§ 4, 5, passed 1-24-2022; Ord. No. 23-039, §§ 1, 2, passed 5-11-2023 ; Ord.
No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11- 2023; Ord. No. 23-061, §§ 4, 5, passed 8-10-2023;
Ord. No. 24-030, §§ 3, 4, passed 5-9-2024)
SEC. 9-4-104 LIGHTING STANDARDS; EXTERNAL.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided all external site illumination for any use
shall be in accordance with this section and the Lighting Standards for the
City of Greenville.
   (B)   No lighting shall be directed toward or placed in such a manner as to
shine directly into a public right-of-way or residential premises. For purposes
of this section, the term “residential premises” shall constitute a structure
which is designed and approved for use as a dwelling unit.
   (C)   No lighting shall illuminate any public right-of-way, street or any
adjoining or area property in such a manner as to constitute a nuisance or
hazard to the general public.
   (D)   No lighting shall contain flashing or intermittent lights or lights of
changing degrees of intensity.
   (E)   This section shall not abrogate the City of Greenville or Greenville
Utilities Commission authority to erect or maintain any site and/or street
lighting in the interest of the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. No. 2722, § 1, passed 10-14-1993; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 9-4-105 EXEMPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS.
   If a proposed single-family dwelling, or an existing single-family dwelling
proposed for expansion, is located directly adjacent to one or more existing
conforming residential uses located on the same side of the street, and the
existing public street setback of the adjacent residential structure(s) is less
than the minimum requirement for the district, then the public street setback
of the proposed dwelling or expansion may be established at a point equal to or
greater than the public street setback of the adjacent residential dwelling
having the greatest setback; provided, however, no modified public street
setback shall be less than ten feet. When a proposed single-family dwelling or
an existing single-family dwelling proposed for expansion is located directly
adjacent to an existing residential structure located on the same side of the
street which meets the minimum public street setback requirement for the
district, the provisions of this section shall not apply.
(Ord. No. 95-81, § 1, passed 8-10-1995)
SEC. 9-4-106 RELATIONSHIP TO GREENWAY PLAN.
   If any portion of the area proposed for development lies within an area
designated in the officially adopted Greenway Master Plan as a greenway
corridor, the area so designated shall, in accordance with applicable laws,
ordinances, and conditions of development approval, be dedicated and/or
reserved to the public at the option of the city.
(Ord. No. 96-74, § 1, passed 8-8-1996; Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
ARTICLE G. BUFFERYARD SETBACKS
SEC. 9-4-115 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Bufferyards are the open space setbacks which separate site
improvements from adjacent property lines and street rights-of-way. These may
contain natural materials including but not limited to vegetation, ground
cover, mulch and other pervious materials.
   (B)   The provisions contained in the bufferyard requirements shall not
apply to those uses located within the CD Downtown Commercial Zoning District.
   (C)   To determine the bufferyard required by this article, the following
steps shall be taken:
      (1)   Identify the land use classification number of the proposed and
existing adjacent land use(s) as listed under Article D, section
9-4-78, Table of Uses, of this chapter.
      (2)   Use the bufferyard chart to determine the appropriate letter
designation for each required bufferyard.
      (3)   Match the letter designation obtained from the bufferyard chart
with the letter designation of the bufferyard setback table to determine the
required bufferyard.
      (4)   The bufferyard chart and bufferyard setback table are contained
herein.
(Ord. No. 95-111, § 1, passed 11-9-1995)
SEC. 9-4-116 ILLUSTRATION OF BUFFERYARD SETBACKS.
   Prior to the issuance of any permit or the granting of any other approval
the applicant shall indicate on all required plans the location, type and
dimension of all bufferyards required by this article.
(Ord. No. 95-111, § 1, passed 11-9-1995)
SEC. 9-4-117 DETERMINING THE APPROPRIATE LAND USE CLASSIFICATION NUMBER.
   (A)   The land use classification number for proposed and adjacent uses
shall be obtained from the table of uses set forth in Article D, section
9-4-78 and
Appendix A of this chapter.
   (B)   Where uncertainty exists as to the appropriate land use classification
number for any proposed and/or adjacent use the Director of Planning and
Development Services shall determine the land use classification number in each
individual case. In reaching the determination, the Director of Planning and
Development Services shall be guided by the requirements for similar uses.
   (C)   Prior to the issuance of any permit an appeal, from a decision of the
Director of Planning and Development Services pursuant to subsection (B) above,
shall be made to the Board of Adjustment in the nature of an interpretation.
(Ord. No. 95-111, § 1, passed 11-9-1995; Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006;
Ord. No. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 9-4-118 BUFFERYARD SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Bufferyard chart. See also subsection (B).
 
Proposed                                   Adjacent Vacant Zone or
Land Use  Adjacent Permitted Land Use      Zone With Nonconforming
Classifi- Classification                   Use                        Public/
cation                                                                Private
                                                                      Streets
                                                                      or
          1    2      3      4      5      Residential Nonresidential Railroad
                                           Zone        Zone           R/W


          C    B NOTE B NOTE B NOTE B NOTE                            A NOTE :
2         NOTE :1     :1     :1     :1     C NOTE :1   B NOTE :1      1
          :1
          D    D NOTE B NOTE B NOTE B NOTE                            A NOTE :
3         NOTE :2     :2     :2     :2     D NOTE :2   B NOTE :1      1
          :2
          E    E NOTE B NOTE B NOTE B NOTE                            A NOTE :
4         NOTE :2     :2     :2     :2     E NOTE :2   B NOTE :2      1
          :2
          F    F NOTE B NOTE B NOTE B NOTE                            A NOTE :
5         NOTE :2     :2     :2     :2     F NOTE :2   B NOTE :2      1
          :2
 
   (B)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Within any CDF and/or OR District all existing adjacent
Classification 1 and/or Classification 2 land uses shall be construed as
Classification 3 land uses for purposes of determining proposed land use
bufferyard requirements.
      (2)   Within any district all existing adjacent church uses shall be
construed as a Classification 3 land use for purposes of determining proposed
land use bufferyard requirements.
      (3)   Within any district, parking areas for two-family attached
development or conversion shall be subject to the bufferyard setback and
screening requirement applicable to a Classification 2 land use whenever the
parking area is located in a side and/or rear yard and the yard abuts a lot
located in any residential district which contains an existing single-family
dwelling or abuts a vacant lot or tract located in a single-family district.
The bufferyard setback and screening requirement of this section shall only
apply to that portion of the parking area located within the side and/or rear
yard.
   (C)   Notes. Pursuant to the bufferyard chart the following notes are
additional minimum setback requirements:
      (1)   Note: 1. Building setbacks shall be in accordance with applicable
regulations for the zoning district and use.
      (2)   Note: 2. Unless otherwise provided, building setbacks shall be
determined in the following manner:
         (a)   No structure shall exceed the maximum height allowance as
specified under Article F of this chapter.
         (b)   Structures 35 feet in height and under, in accordance with
prescribed bufferyards.
         (c)   Structures over 35 feet in height, in accordance with prescribed
bufferyards or by using the following formula, whichever is greater: D = 6 + 2
(S) + L/10 where D is the minimum setback distance, S is the number of stories
and L is the length of the wall. Where the length of the wall is set back eight
feet or more, the length (L) of each segment or plane is measured separately in
determining the required yard depth (see definition of story).
         (d)   Setbacks for parking, storage, dumpsters and the like shall be
in accordance with prescribed bufferyards.
(Ord. No. 95-111, § 1, passed 11-9-1995; Ord. No. 95-138, § 1, passed 12-14-
1995; Ord. No. 97-85, §§ 1, 2, passed 8-14-1997; Ord. No. 99-6, § 4, passed 1-
14-1999)
SEC. 9-4-119 BUFFERYARD SETBACK TABLE.
   (A)   Bufferyards A and B.
      (1)   Lot size less than 25,000 square feet: Four feet.
      (2)   Lot size 25,000 square feet to 175,000 square feet: Six feet.
      (3)   Lot size over 175,000 square feet: Ten feet.
   (B)   Bufferyard C.
      (1)   All lots: Ten feet.
      (2)   Where a fence or evergreen hedge option is used the bufferyard
setback may be reduced to: Not less than eight feet.
   (C)   Bufferyard D.
      (1)   All lots: 20 feet.
      (2)   Where a fence, evergreen hedge or berm option is used the
bufferyard setback may be reduced to: Not less than ten feet.
   (D)   Bufferyard E.
      (1)   All lots: 30 feet.
      (2)   Where a fence, evergreen hedge or berm option is used the
bufferyard setback may be reduced to: Not less than 15 feet.
   (E)   Bufferyard F.
      (1)   All lots: 50 feet.
      (2)   Where a fence, evergreen hedge or berm option is used the
bufferyard setback may be reduced to: Not less than 25 feet.
   (F)   Fences option. Must create a complete visual barrier for at least six
feet in height. Acceptable materials are cedar, masonry, redwood, chain link
with slats and treated lumber resistant to rot. Fence installation should be
consistent with acceptable building practices.
   (G)   Evergreen hedge option. In lieu of fence installation as required or
optioned the owner may elect to install an evergreen hedge to satisfy the
bufferyard width reduction standards under Bufferyards C, D, E and F in
accordance with the following:
      (1)   The evergreen hedge vegetation material shall be in addition to any
vegetation requirement applicable to the site pursuant to Article P of this
chapter.
      (2)   The hedge shall consist of qualified materials designed to create a
complete year- round visual barrier to a height of six feet within 12 months of
planting.
      (3)   Vegetation material types and installation shall be in accordance
with Article P of this chapter.
   (H)   Existing fencing. Where there is an existing fence of acceptable
material located on adjacent property which creates a complete visual barrier
of at least five feet in height and the fence is located adjacent to and along
the abutting property line, as determined by the Director of Planning and
Development Services, the developer may elect to reduce the bufferyard width
for Bufferyards C, D and E in accordance with subsections (B), (C) and (D)
above.
   (I)   Berm option. In lieu of fence installation as required or optioned the
owner may elect to install a berm to satisfy the bufferyard width reduction
standards under Bufferyards D, E and F in accordance with the following:
      (1)   Minimum height: Six feet as measured vertically from the inside
bufferyard setback line to a point parallel to the top of the berm crown.
      (2)   Maximum slope: One and one-half feet horizontal for each one foot
vertical; provided however, berms having a slope greater than two feet
horizontal for each one foot vertical shall be constructed in multiple terraces
which are bound by retaining structures specifically designed for that purpose.
      (3)   Minimum crown width: Two feet; provided, however, if a berm is
shared between adjoining properties the portion of the crown located on any lot
shall not be less than one foot.
      (4)   Where qualified vegetation materials are planted on a berm slope, a
terraced planting area designed in accordance with acceptable and recognized
practice shall be provided.
      (5)   A berm may be shared between adjoining properties provided the
properties individually comply with all requirements.
      (6)   Berm slopes shall be stabilized to prevent erosion.
      (7)   Berms shall be installed in accordance with acceptable and
recognized engineering practice. No berm shall be installed and/or altered
without the approval of the City Engineer.
   (J)   Where a bufferyard width is reduced pursuant to the fence, evergreen
hedge, or berm option all required visual barriers shall be continued to the
property line or not less than 20 feet beyond any encroachment, whichever is
less.
   (K)   (1)   Except as further provided, minimum non-screening Bufferyard B
setbacks set forth under this section
9-4-119, and/or minimum street right-of-way building setbacks for residential
and nonresidential uses may be reduced by up to 10%, at the option of the
owner, where the reduction is necessary to retain an existing ten-inch-plus
caliper large tree, provided:
         (a)   The tree is determined, by the Director of Planning and
Development Services or his or her designated representative, to be either
natural growth (seedling) vegetation or that the tree has been in existence for
not less than 20 years at the current location, otherwise previously
transplanted trees shall not qualify for purposes of this section;
         (b)   The reduction is indicated upon an approved site plan; including
the location, type and caliper of the subject tree, and the building separation
and future no-build zone as further described;
         (c)   A building to tree trunk separation of not less than ten feet is
maintained at the time of initial construction;
         (d)   No new future buildings, expansions or additions to existing
buildings, or other impervious areas including parking areas and/or drives,
shall be allowed to encroach into a designated future no-build zone, described
as a ten-foot radius from the center of the trunk of the retained tree; and
         (e)   A six-inch or greater caliper large tree shall be substituted in
replacement of any dead or diseased tree qualified under this requirement, at
the location of the removed tree, within 60 days of removal of the tree by the
owner or within the period following notice by the city.
      (2)   The setback reduction allowance shall not apply to single-family
and two-family attached (duplex) development or associated accessory
structures.
(Ord. No. 95-111, § 1, passed 11-9-1995; Ord. No. 05-123, § 4, passed 10-13-
2005; Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006; Ord. No. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-
2019)
SEC. 9-4-120 STANDARDS.
   (A)   Measurements; location of bufferyards. Bufferyard setbacks shall be
measured from lot boundary lines except as further provided.
   (B)   Thoroughfares. Where a lot is located in proximity of an existing or
future thoroughfare, as shown on the officially adopted Highway Map of the
Comprehensive Transportation Plan, all bufferyard setbacks shall be measured
from the ultimate future thoroughfare right-of-way line or property line, which
yields the greatest setback.
   (C)   Overlapping bufferyards. Whenever two or more bufferyard requirements
are applicable to the same use or combination of uses, then the more stringent
of the bufferyard requirements shall apply, except as further provided.
   (D)   Planned center. In the case of planned centers containing multiple
principal uses, such as shopping centers, office/commercial unit ownership type
developments and the like, the initial bufferyard requirement shall be based on
the anticipated primary occupancy of the center and the requirement shall apply
to all subsequent uses absent any change in zoning for the planned center.
   (E)   Shopping centers, vertical mixed-use developments, condominium/
townhouse, multi-family group and planned center type developments. Bufferyards
are required only along exterior property lines of the development.
   (F)   Easement. No fence, evergreen hedge or berm optioned or required by
this article shall be located on property subject to utility or drainage
easements without the written consent of the city and easement holder. Site
plan approval from the respective easement holder shall be construed as
approval of all noted encroachments.
   (G)   Drainage ditch. No fence, evergreen hedge or berm optioned or required
by this article shall be located within five feet of the outer edge of a
drainage ditch. Stormwater detention structures having a slope of two feet
horizontal for each one foot vertical or steeper shall be considered a drainage
ditch for purposes of this section.
   (H)   Encroachments.
      (1)   Bufferyards for adjacent public and/or private streets may only be
encroached upon by driveways, signage and general (public/customer) pedestrian
access walkways, provided the walkways comply with subsection (H)(3) below.
      (2)   Bufferyards for peripheral lot boundaries shall not be encroached
upon by vehicular areas (except common access drives and parking lots), service
access walkways, exterior storage, mechanical equipment, principal and/or
accessory structures, garbage/trash container pads and the like unless
otherwise provided. Encroachments by stormwater detention structures may be
allowed subject to the approval of the City Engineer. Exterior lighting may
encroach three feet into required bufferyards. General (public/customer)
pedestrian access walkways may encroach into required bufferyards provided the
walkways comply with subsection (H)(3) below.
      (3)   General (public/customer) pedestrian access walkways shall be
subject to compliance with all of the following requirements:
         (a)   Such walkways shall be designed to provide direct access to and
from adjacent public and/or private streets, designated common property, public
access easements and lot lines;
         (b)   Encroachment zone. Walkways are allowed to cross individual or
abutting bufferyards within an area equal in width to the minimum bufferyard as
measured perpendicular to the property line;
         (c)   Maximum width of each individual walkway shall not exceed six
feet; and
         (d)   Within the minimum bufferyard area two or more walkways
providing access to a lot along any single property line shall be separated by
not less than 50 feet as measured from center of walkway to center of walkway.
      (4)   Aboveground public utility apparatus, structures or covers
including transmission lines, poles and support wires, transformers, meters,
pumps, regulators, catch basins, manholes, vents, switching or control boxes
and the like may encroach into any bufferyard setback provided the use does not
constitute a public utility building or use as defined under Article B of this
chapter.
   (I)   Recreational use of bufferyards. A bufferyard may be used for passive
recreation; it may contain pedestrian, bike or equestrian trails, provided
that:
      (1)   The total width of the bufferyard is increased in direct proportion
to the width of any encroachment(s) except as further provided;
      (2)   Public dedicated greenway improvements shall be exempt from
subsection (I)(1) above; and
      (3)   All other regulations of this article and Article P of this chapter
are met. In no event, however, shall the following uses be permitted in
bufferyards: playground equipment, playfields, stables, swimming pools and ball
courts.
   (J)   Maintenance of on-site fences. To ensure that fencing will be
maintained in a safe and aesthetic manner, the following maintenance
requirements shall be observed for all fencing required by this article:
      (1)   No fence shall have more than 20% of its surface area covered with
disfigured, cracked or missing materials or peeling paint for a period of more
than 30 successive days.
      (2)   No fence shall be allowed to remain with bent or broken supports,
or be allowed to stand more than 15 degrees away from perpendicular for a
period of more than 30 successive days.
(Ord. No. 95-111, § 1, passed 11-9-1995; Ord. No. 96-78, § 1, passed 8-8-1996;
Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023; Ord. No. 24-052, § 2, passed 9-12-2024)
SEC. 9-4-121 NONCONFORMING BUFFERYARDS.
   (A)   Except as further provided, developments that do not comply with the
bufferyard setback requirements of this article shall be subject to the
provisions contained in Article C of this chapter.
   (B)   Where there is noncompliance with any bufferyard setback standard(s)
and when an applicant requests a change of use permit one of the two following
situations shall apply:
      (1)   Where there is a change of land use and the new land use is of the
same or lower land use classification no additional requirements shall apply
for the existing improvements; provided, however, any expansion shall be
subject to the current requirements of this article.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided, where there is a change of land use
and the new land use is of a higher land use classification the new use shall
comply with all bufferyard setback standards in accordance with subsections (C)
and (D) of this section.
   (C)   Where there is a substandard C, D, E or F bufferyard setback
separating existing improvements from an adjacent property line the fence,
evergreen hedge or berm option contained in section
9-4-119 shall apply. The improvements shall be installed prior to issuance of
any final occupancy permit.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to require the
removal of existing structures, buildings, improved parking areas, improved
drives, mechanical equipment and lighting or other fixed improvements;
provided, however, all other encroachments including but not limited to
concrete islands and the like shall be removed.
(Ord. No. 95-111, § 1, passed 11-9-1995)
SEC. 9-4-122 VEGETATION REQUIREMENTS; APPLICABILITY.
   Vegetation requirements shall be installed where and when applicable in
accordance with Article P of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 95-111, § 1, passed 11-9-1995)
ARTICLE H. MOBILE HOME PARKS
SEC. 9-4-129 CONFORMANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to locate or cause to be located
or to allow one or more mobile homes to be located on a tract owned, possessed,
or otherwise controlled by him or her after December 7, 1981, unless the act
conforms to one of the following requirements or conditions:
      (1)   The mobile home is nonconforming as defined in Article C;
      (2)   The mobile home is within an approved mobile home park;
      (3)   The mobile home is used in connection with an allowable temporary
use; or
      (4)   The mobile home is on an individual lot in a district in which it
is a permitted use.
   (B)   (1)   The owner or operator of a mobile home park shall not permit a
recreational vehicle or travel trailer to locate within the boundaries of the
park for periods greater than one week if the travel trailer is being used or
intended to be used as a dwelling.
      (2)   The storage of individual travel trailers and recreational vehicles
shall be permitted, provided that only one such unit is stored on a mobile home
site by the site occupant and the units are not used for purposes of living,
sleeping or cooking while in storage.
   (C)   Recreational vehicles and travel trailers may be parked or stored on
any residential lot which contains a principal use provided the units are not
utilized for purposes of living, sleeping or cooking while in storage. No such
units may occupy more than 20% of the minimum required open space on an
individual lot.
   (D)   (1)   These regulations shall not be construed to prohibit parking
and/or storing of any mobile home for the purpose of sale by the owner or
licensed dealer upon any lot or tract on which the sale of mobile homes is
permitted under these regulations.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell mobile homes within a
mobile home park on a commercial basis, except that individual mobile home
owners shall be allowed to sell their mobile homes.
   (E)   Except as provided herein, it shall be unlawful to store or park any
unoccupied mobile home for longer than 48 hours except in an emergency and then
only after first obtaining an emergency storage permit from the Building
Inspector. No emergency storing permit shall be issued for a period longer than
seven days.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-130 PROCEDURES; REQUIRED REVIEW, CONTENTS.
   (A)   Required review. The developer shall submit a development plan to the
Director of Planning and Development Services for review and approval prior to
the issuance of any construction or building permits in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   Site plan approval. Where no right-of-way or utility service
extension is requested or required.
      (2)   Preliminary and final subdivision approval. Shall be required in
accordance with
Title 9, Chapter 5, Subdivisions of the Greenville City Code.
   (B)   Contents. Shall be as necessary to determine and ensure compliance
with the standards, conditions and restrictions of the zoning and subdivision
regulations and related laws. Specific site design elements, submission
requirements and procedures are set forth in the Land Development
Administration Manual which is incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006;
Ord. No. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 9-4-131 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Mobile home parks and buildings, when constructed, altered, extended
or used shall be arranged, intended and designed to be used exclusively for one
or more of the following uses according to the conditions specified in this
article:
       (1)   Mobile homes for use as dwelling units;
      (2)   Caretaker’s or manager’s office; or
      (3)   Services for occupants of the mobile home park only, including
management office, mail pick-up, rest rooms, vending machines, washing and
drying machines for domestic laundry and recreation facilities accessory to the
mobile home park and other similar uses.
   (B)   There shall be no more than one mobile home and its accessory
structure(s) located on any site or lot.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-132 DENSITY; AVAILABILITY REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The maximum density shall be eight units per net acre.
   (B)   There shall be no less than ten sites available at first occupancy.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-133 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minimum area. The minimum area of any mobile home park development
shall be three net acres.
   (B)   Site-lot minimum dimensions; stakes.
      (1)   Single-wide units (site).
         (a)   Net area: 4,000 square feet.
      (2)   Double-wide units (site).
         (a)   Net area: 5,000 square feet.
         (b)   Width: 50 feet.
      (3)   Subdivision; for sale of individual lots.
         (a)   Net area: 6,000 square feet.
         (b)   Width: 60 feet.
      (4)   Stakes. The limits of each mobile home site shall be clearly marked
on the ground by permanent flush stakes. Location of sites on the ground shall
be approximately the same as shown on the approved plans. Precise description
of space limits is not required either on the plans or on the ground, except
when a mobile home subdivision is proposed.
   (C)   Setbacks for mobile homes; principal structures.
      (1)   Public street right-of-way: 25 feet.
      (2)   Private street easement: Ten feet.
      (3)   Peripheral boundary: 20 feet.
      (4)   In mobile home subdivisions, the location of mobile homes and
principal structures shall be in accordance with Article F.
   (D)   Setbacks for detached accessory structures.
      (1)   Public street right-of-way: 25 feet.
      (2)   Private street easement: Ten feet.
      (3)   Peripheral boundary: 20 feet.
      (4)   No accessory structure to any mobile home shall be located in any
front yard.
      (5)   Accessory structures shall be located on the individual mobile home
site as established and stated in accordance with subsection (B)(4) above. Zero
stake limit line setbacks shall be allowed.
      (6)   In mobile home subdivisions, the location of accessory structures
shall be in accordance with Article F.
   (E)   Separation between, mobile homes; stands; other structures.
      (1)   Mobile homes: 20 feet.
      (2)   Mobile home stands: 20 feet.
      (3)   Other structures: Ten feet.
      (4)   Attached structures such as awnings, storage cabinets, carports,
and porches which have a floor area exceeding 25 square feet and are roofed
shall for all purposes of the separation requirements be considered to be part
of the mobile home.
   (F)   Mobile home stand requirements.
      (1)   Each mobile home shall be located on a permanently established
stand within the limits of the staked mobile home site or lot.
      (2)   The mobile home stand and lot shall be graded to provide adequate
storm drainage away from the mobile home.
      (3)   Single-wide stands shall consist of a rectangular plot of ground
which at minimum measures 14 feet by 70 feet.
      (4)   Double-wide stands shall consist of a rectangular plot of ground
which at minimum measures 28 feet by 70 feet.
      (5)   The location of each mobile home stand shall be such that placement
and removal of individual units can be achieved without disturbance to other
mobile homes, sites, patios, walkways or accessory structures.
   (G)   Patio requirements.  For each mobile home, there shall be constructed
a permanent patio, located adjacent to or attached to the mobile home stand and
the patio shall be of the following characteristics:
      (1)   Each patio shall be at least 64 square feet in area.
      (2)   Each patio shall have sufficient gradient to facilitate adequate
drainage away from the mobile home stand.
      (3)   Each patio shall have a compacted base, and shall be concrete or
masonry construction.
   (H)   Walkway requirements.  For each mobile home, there shall be
constructed a permanent walkway which connects the parking area, patio and
mobile home stand and the walkway shall be of the following characteristics:
      (1)   The width of the walkway shall be a minimum of three feet; and
      (2)   The walkway shall have a compacted base, and shall be concrete or
masonry construction.
   (I)   Parking requirement.
      (1)   Number of spaces: two per mobile home.
      (2)   Required spaces may be within common parking lots containing three
or more spaces which are designed and improved in accordance with Article O.
      (3)   All required spaces for each mobile home shall be located within
150 feet of the mobile home stand it is intended to serve.
      (4)   No parking space shall be located closer than five feet to any
mobile home stand.
   (J)   Recreation area requirement (private).
      (1)   Common recreation area shall be provided at a ratio of 100 square
feet per dwelling unit.
      (2)   The recreation requirement for a mobile home park development shall
not apply if the project is within one-half-mile radius of a public recreation
facility.
      (3)   No portion of an active recreation area shall be located within the
peripheral boundary setback or less than 20 feet from any mobile home stand.
      (4)   Passive recreation areas may be located in the peripheral boundary
setback in accordance with the bufferyard regulations.
      (5)   Swimming pools shall be fenced in accordance with Article F.
   (K)   Access to public streets. Effective September 1, 2023, new mobile home
parks must be located on public streets. Mobile home stands may be located with
direct access to terminal public streets which exclusively serve the mobile
home park or on private streets located within the mobile home park. No mobile
home stand shall have direct access to public streets which do not exclusively
serve the mobile home park.
   (L)   Addresses. A permanent street address shall be assigned to each mobile
home stand in accordance with
Title 6, Chapter 2 of the Greenville City Code.
   (M)   Bufferyard setbacks and vegetation requirements.
      (1)   Bufferyard setbacks shall be in accordance with Article G of this
chapter.
      (2)   Vegetation requirements shall be in accordance with Article P of
this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 95-117, § 1, passed 11-9-1995)
   (N)   Perimeter skirting. Mobile homes shall, upon installation, have either
a permanent, continuous masonry foundation; or a continuous and opaque skirt
consisting of vinyl, fiberglass or other similar solid nonmetal material. The
skirt for a mobile home shall be attached to weather resistant material when
required for support.
(Ord. No. 00-19, § 10, passed 2-10-2000; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-
2023)
SEC. 9-4-134 GARBAGE/TRASH CONTAINER PAD LOCATIONS.
   (A)   No container pad shall be located closer than 20 feet to any mobile
home stand.
   (B)   Each container pad required to service the development shall be
located within 200 feet of the mobile home stands the container is intended to
serve.
   (C)   Container pads shall be enclosed on three sides by a complete visual
screen consisting of a fence, vegetation or combination thereof.
   (D)   Container pads shall be in accordance with Title 6, Chapter 3, Garbage
and Refuse Collection and Disposal, of the City Code.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 2466, § 3, passed 6-8-1992)
SEC. 9-4-135 COMPLIANCE WITH SUBDIVISION STANDARDS.
   All development regulated in accordance with this section shall be subject
to the requirements, conditions and restrictions of the subdivision regulations
whether or not the subject tract is actually divided for the purpose of
transferring title.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-136 MINIMUM FITNESS REQUIREMENTS.
   No mobile home established (new setup) or relocated within the city planning
and zoning jurisdiction shall be occupied until the mobile home has been
inspected and approved for compliance with the Minimum Housing Code set forth
under Title 9, Chapter 1, Article F of the City Code when the Building
Inspector makes a finding of noncompliance with the Minimum Housing Code.
(Ord. No. 00-19, § 9, passed 2-10-2000)
ARTICLE I. MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENT
SEC. 9-4-141 APPLICABILITY.
   The standards established in sections
9-4-141 through
9-4-151 shall apply to new construction and conversions of all multi-family
development except in the CD Zoning District where the standards are
established in sections
9-4-152 and
9-4-153.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 94-156, § 5, passed 12-8-1994)
SEC. 9-4-142 PROCEDURES; REQUIRED REVIEW, CONTENTS.
   (A)   Required review. The developer shall submit a development plan to the
Director of Planning and Development Services for review and approval prior to
the issuance of any construction or building permits in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   Site plan approval. For one structure containing three or more
attached dwelling units and/or two or more dwelling structures located on a
common lot.
      (2)   Preliminary and final subdivision plat approval. Shall be required
in accordance with the
Title 9, Chapter 5, Subdivisions of the Greenville City Code.
   (B)   Contents. Shall be as necessary to determine and ensure compliance
with the standards, conditions and restrictions of the zoning and subdivision
regulations and related laws. Specific site design elements, submission
requirements and procedures are set forth in the Land Development
Administration Manual which is incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 9-4-143 DENSITY.
   (A)   The minimum lot area requirement per dwelling unit is as follows:
      (1)   All districts (except R-6A and CD).
         (a)   One-bedroom unit: 2,300 square feet (net) per unit.
         (b)   Two or more bedroom unit: 2,900 square feet (net) per unit.
      (2)   R-6A District.
         (a)   One-bedroom unit: 4,500 square feet (net) per unit.
         (b)   Two or more bedroom unit: 5,500 square feet (net) per unit.
      (3)   CD District. Shall be in accordance with section
9-4-153.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the area within any public street right-
of-way shall not be utilized to determine the net area.
   (C)   Area dedicated or deeded to the city pursuant to section
9-4-144(E) shall count toward net area for the purposes of density calculation.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 2437, § 1, passed 3-12-1992;
Ord. No. 94-156, § 6, passed 12-8-1994; Ord. No. 95-29, § 5, passed 3-9-1995)
SEC. 9-4-143.1 MINIMUM HABITABLE (MECHANICAL CONDITIONED) FLOOR AREA PER UNIT.
   (A)   The minimum habitable (mechanically conditioned) floor area
requirement per dwelling unit is as follows:
      (1)   All districts (except R-6A and CD). None.
      (2)   R-6A District.
         (a)   One-bedroom: 650 square feet per unit.
         (b)   Two- or more bedroom unit: 1,000 square feet per unit.
      (3)   CD District. Shall be in accordance with section
9-4-153.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, minimum habitable (mechanically
conditioned) floor area shall include clothes closets, cabinets and other
similar interior storage areas except as further provided. The following shall
not count toward or qualify as habitable floor area for purposes of this
section: garages; attics; crawl spaces; storage areas accessed via a garage,
attic or crawl space; storage areas utilizing outside (exterior) access;
detached principal or accessory structures; screened or open porches, balconies
and the like.
(Ord. No. 95-29, § 6, passed 3-9-1995)
SEC. 9-4-144 OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Thirty percent of the net area shall be reserved as common and/or
private open space.
   (B)   Public and/or private streets, driveways, off-street parking area,
principal and accessory structures shall not be utilized in calculating or
counting towards the open space requirement.
   (C)   Recreation areas may be counted as open space provided impervious
surfaces constitute no more than 50% of the recreation area.
   (D)   Detached accessory structures shall not cover more than 20% of any
individually designated, reserved or common area.
   (E)   If any portion of the area proposed for a multi-family development
lies within an area designated in the officially adopted Greenway Master Plan
as a greenway corridor, the area so designated shall be included as part of the
area set aside to satisfy the open space requirements of this section. The area
within the greenway corridor shall be dedicated and/or reserved to the public
at the option of the city.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 2437, § 2, passed 3-12-1992)
SEC. 9-4-145 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Lot dimensions.
      (1)   Net area: 15,000 square feet.
      (2)   Primary width: 75 feet at the minimum building line.
      (3)   Secondary width: 16 feet, provided that when combined with
adjoining common lots the total width equals or exceeds the primary width. Lots
established prior to April 9, 1981 may have a minimum secondary width of 14
feet.
   (B)   Setbacks for principal structures.
      (1)   Public street right-of-way: 25 feet.
      (1)(A)   Public street right-of-way for single-family and/or two-family
attached developments: 15 feet.
      (2)   Private street easement: Ten feet.
      (3)   Group development peripheral boundary: 20 feet.
      (4)   Single structure peripheral boundary:
         (a)   Side building wall elevation: Ten feet.
         (b)   Rear building wall elevation; 20 feet.
   (C)   Setbacks for accessory structures.
      (1)   Detached accessory structures:
         (a)   Public street right-of-way: 25 feet.
         (b)   Private street easement: Ten feet.
         (c)   Peripheral boundary: In accordance with Article G.
         (d)   No accessory structure shall be located in any front or side
building wall elevation peripheral boundary, separation setback or yard.
         (e)   Shall not be located within ten feet of any principal or
attached accessory structure or within five feet of any other detached
accessory structure except as further provided under subsection (C)(1)(f)
below.
         (f)   Detached accessory structures may share a common party wall of
unspecified minimum length with other detached accessory structures; provided,
however, if there is an offset of the wall, the offset or separation shall be
not less than five feet.
         (g)   Shall not cover more than 20% of any individually designated,
reserved or common area.
         (h)   Specific accessory structures such as satellite dish antennae
and swimming pools shall comply with the applicable provisions of Article F.
      (2)   Attached accessory structures:
         (a)   For purposes of this section any accessory structure attached to
a principal structure shall be subject to the height, open space, setback,
building separation and bufferyard requirements of the principal structure
except as further provided.
         (b)   Attached accessory structures may project into a rear building
wall elevation peripheral boundary or rear building wall elevation separation
setback provided the projection meets all of the following requirements:
            1.   The maximum individual projection, including and in addition
to the requirements set forth under section
9-4-102. Projections into required yards shall not exceed ten feet;
            2.   Access to and from the accessory structure shall be by an
exterior doorway. No interior window or doorway shall be permitted;
            3.   No attached accessory structure shall be considered or
utilized as habitable space;
            4.   The combined horizontal dimension of all attached accessory
structures shall not exceed 30% of the horizontal dimension of the exterior
rear wall elevation of the common principal structure to which attached;
            5.   Attached accessory structures may share a common party wall of
unspecified minimum length with other accessory structures; provided, however,
if there is an offset of the wall the offset shall be subject to subsection (C)
(2)(b)6. below;
            6.   Attached accessory structures, associated with a common
principal building, which do not share a common party wall with other attached
accessory structures shall be separated by not less than five feet; and
            7.   Shall not be located within ten feet of any adjacent principal
or attached accessory structure or detached accessory structure.
   (D)   Setbacks for recreation areas.
      (1)   Active: No portion of an active recreation area shall be located
within the peripheral boundary setback or less than 20 feet from any dwelling
unit.
      (2)   Passive: May be located within the peripheral boundary setback in
accordance with the bufferyard regulations.
   (E)   Building separation within group developments containing two or more
principal structures on one lot of record.
      (1)   No portion of a principal structure front or rear building wall
elevation shall be located less than 40 feet from an adjacent principal
structure front or rear building wall elevation as measured at 90 degrees,
except as provided herein.
      (2)   No portion of a principal structure side building wall elevation
shall be located less than 20 feet from an adjacent principal structure as
measured at 90 degrees, except as provided herein.
       (3)   Single-family and two-family attached group developments shall be
exempt from subsections (E)(1) and (2) above, provided the structures meet all
other requirements of this section.
      (4)   No portion of any principal structure shall be located less than 16
feet from any other principal structure as measured to the closest point.
      (5)   No two units or structures shall be considered attached unless the
units or structures share a five-foot common party wall.
      (6)   Architectural extensions including but not limited to bay windows,
chimneys, open porches and decks, roof overhangs and balconies shall not be
considered in calculating building separation, provided the encroachments are
not more than three feet.
   (F)   Building height.  No structure shall exceed 35 feet in height above
the property grade unless the required setbacks and building separations are
increased one foot for each one foot or fraction thereof of building height in
excess of 35 feet.
   (G)   Building length.  No contiguous unit or series of attached units shall
exceed a combined length of 260 feet, except as provided herein. Any building
which exceeds 260 feet shall be designed and constructed with the appropriate
firewall(s) and/or equipped with a sprinkler system in compliance with either
the North Carolina State Building Code, General Construction, Volume 1, or the
North Carolina Building Code, Volume 1-B, Residential, whichever is applicable,
or both if both are applicable.
   (H)   Setback exemption. The minimum non-screening Bufferyard B setbacks set
forth under section
9-4-119, and/or minimum street right-of-way building setbacks may be reduced by
up to 10%, at the option of the owner, where the reduction is necessary to
retain an existing ten-inch-plus caliper large tree, provided:
      (1)   The tree is determined, by the Director of Planning and Development
Services or his or her designated representative, to be either natural growth
(seedling) vegetation or that the tree has been in existence for not less than
20 years at the current location, otherwise previously transplanted trees shall
not qualify for purposes of this section;
      (2)   That the reduction is indicated upon an approved site plan;
including the location, type and caliper of the subject tree, and the building
separation and future no-build zone as further described;
      (3)   That a building to tree trunk separation of not less than ten feet
is maintained at the time of initial construction;
      (4)   No new future buildings, expansions or additions to existing
buildings, or other impervious areas including parking areas and/or drives,
shall be allowed to encroach into a designated future no-build zone, described
as a ten-foot radius from the center of the trunk of the retained tree; and
      (5)   A six-inch or greater caliper large tree shall be substituted in
replacement of any dead or diseased tree qualified under this requirement, at
the location of the removed tree, within 60 days of removal of the tree by the
owner or within the period following notice by the city.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 2438, §§ 1, 2, passed 3-12-
1992, Ord. No. 05-123, § 5, passed 10-13-2005; Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-
10-2006; Ord. No. 15-058, § 1, passed 10-8-2015; Ord. No. 15-024, § 1, passed
5-14-2015; Ord. No. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019; Ord. No. 21-019, §§ 18, 19,
passed 4-12-2021)
SEC. 9-4-146 RECREATION AREA REQUIREMENT (PRIVATE).
   (A)   The recreation area requirement shall not apply to developments that:
      (1)   Contain less than two net acres; and/or
      (2)   Are located within a one-half-mile radius of a public recreation
area.
   (B)   Common recreation areas shall be provided at a ratio of 100 square
feet per dwelling unit.
   (C)   Any PUD zoning district development that has received a special use
permit approval of a land use plan per the former Article J of this chapter
prior to December 10, 2009 and such special use permit remains in effect, may
continue under the approved special use permit and standards in effect at the
time of the special use permit approval. The former Article J of this chapter
is maintained on file in the office of the Director of Planning and Development
Services and remains effective for the specified purpose as if set forth in
this section.
   (D)   Section (C) above shall only apply to PUD district developments that
have received special use permit approval of a land use plan prior to December
10, 2009.
   (E)   Planned unit development districts that have not received special use
permit approval of a land use plan prior to December 10, 2009 shall be rezoned
to a district other than PUD prior to development.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 09-99, § 1, 12-10-2009; Ord.
No. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 9-4-147 BUFFERYARD SETBACKS AND VEGETATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Bufferyard setbacks shall be in accordance with Article G of this
chapter.
   (B)   Vegetation requirements shall be in accordance with Article P of this
chapter.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 95-117, § 2, passed 11-9-1995)
SEC. 9-4-148 PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Number of spaces:
      (1)   One-bedroom unit: One and one-half.
      (2)   Two-bedroom unit: Two.
      (3)   One visitor parking space for every ten dwelling units.
   (B)   All off-street parking areas designed for three or more spaces shall
be in accordance with Article O.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 2465, § 1, passed 6-8-1992)
SEC. 9-4-149 GARBAGE/TRASH CONTAINER, RECYCLING CENTER AND COMPACTOR LOCATIONS.
   (A)   No garbage/trash container or recycling center shall be located closer
than 20 feet to any dwelling structure and no compactor shall be located closer
than 50 feet to any dwelling structure.
   (B)   Each garbage/trash container required to service the development shall
be located within 200 feet of the dwelling units such container is intended to
serve.
   (C)   Garbage/trash containers and recycling centers shall be enclosed on
three sides by a complete visual screen consisting of a fence, vegetation or
combination thereof.
   (D)   Except as further provided, compactors shall be completely enclosed by
a visual screen and safety barrier composed of an opaque masonry wall and
opaque metal or wooden gate, said wall and gate shall be not less than two feet
higher than the highest point of the compactor. The Director of Planning and
Development Services or designee may approve substitute wall and gate material
provided the wall and gate results in an opaque visual screen and safety
barrier as required by this subsection; vegetation shall not be acceptable for
this purpose.
   (E)   Garbage/trash containers, recycling centers and compactors shall be in
accordance with
Title 6, Chapter 3, Garbage and Refuse Collection and Disposal, of the
Greenville City Code.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 2466, § 4, passed 6-8-1992;
Ord. No. 10-34, § 1, 4-8- 2010; Ord. No. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 9-4-150 PRIVATE STREETS.
   No new private streets for single-family and two-family attached dwellings
located on individual lots or on a common lot are allowed after August 14,
2014. Single-family and two-family dwellings shall only be located on public
streets.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 14-049, § 4, passed 8-14-2014;
Ord. No. 15-058, § 2, passed 10-8-2015; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 9-4-151 COMPLIANCE WITH SUBDIVISION STANDARDS.
All developments regulated in accordance with this section shall be subject to
the requirements, conditions and restrictions of the subdivision regulations
whether or not the subject tract is actually divided for the purpose of
transferring title. (Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 21-032, §
1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-4-152 APPLICABILITY.
   The standards established in sections
9-4-152 and
9-4-153 shall apply only in the CD Zoning District.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 94-156, § 7, passed 12-8-1994)
SEC. 9-4-153 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS CD ZONING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Minimum habitable (mechanically conditioned) floor area per unit:
      (1)   One bedroom unit: 400 square feet.
      (2)   Two or more bedroom unit: 500 square feet.
   (B)   Minimum lot area:  None.
   (C)   Minimum lot width: None.
   (D)   Minimum street, side and rear yard setbacks: None.
   (E)   Minimum parking:  One-half space per bedroom.
   (F)   Parking location requirements:
      (1)   Each required parking space shall be located:
         (a)   On the lot containing the associated residential use;
          (b)   Within a remote parking facility located within 800 feet of the
use it is intended to serve, as measured with and along an improved pedestrian
path from the most distant parking space to the building entrance; or
         (c)   Within a remote parking facility located in a Downtown
Commercial (CD) District.
      (2)   Such remote parking facility shall be in accordance with the
applicable provisions of Article O.
   (G)   Compliance: All off-street parking areas designed for three or more
spaces shall be in accordance with Article O.
   (H)   Preservation design: In order to protect the architectural integrity
of existing buildings within the CD Zoning District, and in so doing to
preserve the continuity of scale and design within those areas, the following
requirements shall be met:
      (1)   All slip covers previously applied to the facade of existing
buildings shall be removed.
      (2)   All canopies, except for those made of canvas, shall be removed
from the facade.
      (3)   Where evidence exists of original windows and door openings
subsequently enclosed, the windows and doors shall be reopened in an operable
manner and in a style in keeping with the building. Where other unique
architectural features remain, including cornices, mid-cornices and window
surrounds, they shall be repaired and/or replaced with elements of like design.
      (4)   Nothing in this division shall supersede applicable North Carolina
State Building Code requirements.
   (I)   Signage:  All signs shall be erected in accordance with Article N of
this chapter, but in no event shall be mounted over existing windows, doors or
other architectural features described in subsection (H)(3) above.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 94-132, § 14, passed 10-13-
1994; Ord. No. 94-156, §§ 8, 9, passed 12-8-1994; Ord. No. 09-59, § 3, passed
8-13-2009)
Editor’s note:
   Sections 15 and 16 of Ord. No. 94-132, adopted Oct. 13, 1994, repealed §§ 9-
4-154, 9-4-155, which pertained to residential density bonus provisions and
schedules of residential bonus and derived from Ord. No. 2337, § 1, adopted
June 13, 1991.
ARTICLE J. MASTER PLAN COMMUNITY
SEC. 9-4-161 PURPOSE AND INTENT; DEFINITION; PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
PREVIOUSLY APPROVED, CONSTRUCTED AND/OR VESTED UNDER THE REGULATIONS; PLANNED
UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD) ZONING DISTRICTS PREVIOUSLY ZONED UNDER THE REGULATIONS,
FOR WHICH THERE IS NO VESTED PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   The purpose and intent of a master plan community is to provide an
alternative to traditional development standards, which is intended to:
      (1)   Reduce initial development costs by reducing standard minimum lot
size and setback requirements while reserving areas for common use;
      (2)   Preserve the character of surrounding neighborhoods and enhance the
physical appearance of the area by preserving natural features, existing
vegetation, while providing recreational and open areas;
      (3)   Provide for desirable and usable open space, tree cover, and the
preservation of environmentally sensitive areas;
      (4)   Promote economical and efficient land use, which can result in
smaller networks of public facilities, utilities and streets;
      (5)   Provide for an appropriate and harmonious variety of housing and
creative site design alternatives;
      (6)   Promote energy conservation by optimizing the orientation, layout
and design of structures to take maximum advantage of solar heating/cooling
schemes and energy conserving landscaping;
      (7)   Encourage innovations in residential development so that the
growing demands of population may be met by greater variety in type, design and
layout of buildings; and
      (8)   Provide a procedure that can relate the type, design and layout of
development to a particular site and the particular demand for housing and
other facilities at the time of development in a manner consistent with the
preservation of property values within established residential areas.
   (B)   For purposes of this article a master plan community shall be defined
as a unified development that meets all of the following:
      (1)   Land under common ownership, to be planned and developed as an
integral unit;
      (2)   A single development or a programmed series of development,
including all land, uses and facilities;
      (3)   Is constructed according to comprehensive and detailed plans that
include streets, drives, utilities, lots and building sites. Plans for such
building locations, uses and their relation to each other shall be included and
detailed plans for other uses and improvements of land showing their relation
to the buildings shall also be included; and
      (4)   Provides for the provision, operation and maintenance of areas,
facilities and improvements as shall be required for perpetual common use by
the occupants of the master plan community.
   (C)   For the purposes of this article master plan communities may be
developed in one of two ways, either as a traditional master plan community or
as an agricultural master plan community. The focus of a traditional master
plan community is on providing residents with robust recreation and open space.
An agricultural master plan community is focused on developments that emphasize
production of agricultural products that cater to the needs of the local
community.
   (D)   Any PUD zoning district development that has received special use
permit approval of a land use plan per the former Article J of this chapter
prior to December 10, 2009, and such special use permit remains in effect, may
continue under the approved special use permit and standards in effect at the
time of the special use permit approval. (See also section
9-4-196 of this chapter.)
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 20-059, § 3, passed 10-19-2020)
SEC. 9-4-162 AREA; REGULATION OF USES; DENSITY; OPEN SPACE; RECREATION;
PARKING; LANDSCAPE; DENSITY BONUS REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum area requirements.
      (1)   A master plan community shall contain not less than 50 gross acres.
Addition to any existing master plan community may be allowed provided such
addition meets or exceeds all other applicable requirements. The master plan
community shall be included under one land use plan application and each
addition to or amendment of such development shall be consider as a revision to
the previously approved special use permit. In the case of an addition to or
amendment of a previously approved special use permit, the master plan
community property owners’ association may execute any and all special use
permit amendment applications on behalf of the property owners of individual
lots subject to such association located within the original master plan
community section. No master plan community shall be reduced in area unless the
special use permit for such development is amended in accordance with this
article provided however, the dedication of public rights-of-way shall not be
subject to this requirement.
         For purposes of this chapter, the term “gross acres” shall be
construed as the total acreage of the master plan community including all lands
located within the boundary of the development and any future public street
rights-of-way, private street easements, common open spaces, public dedicated
and accepted land or land deeded to the city or county per a density bonus
option, land acquired by the city for any public purpose, and future building
sites located within the boundary of the master plan community. With the
exception of future street rights-of-way acquired pursuant to the Highway Map
of the Comprehensive Transportation Plan, and/or on-site public street
improvements required and related to the master plan community, existing street
rights-of-way that border the peripheral master plan community boundary at the
time of original land use plan submission shall not be included in the gross
acre calculation.
      (2)   Master plan communities comprising less than 75 gross acres and/or
less than 250 dwelling units shall contain residential uses only as set forth
in subsection (B)(5) of this section.
      (3)   Except as provided under subsection (C)(3) below, master plan
communities comprising 75 gross acres or more and 250 or more dwelling units
may contain all of the uses permitted by subsections (B)(5), (B)(6), (B)(7),
and (B)(8) as appropriate of this section provided that all designated
nonresidential area(s) shall meet all of the following design requirements:
         (a)   Shall be designed and located with the primary intention of
serving the immediate needs and convenience of the residents of the master plan
community.
         (b)   Shall be located on thoroughfare streets included on theHighway
Map of the Comprehensive Transportation Plan and/or on “minor streets” as
defined in section
9-4-168.
         (c)   Shall not be located within 100 feet of the peripheral boundary
of the master plan community. If any portion of such nonresidential area is
located within 300 feet of any single-family residential property zoned RA-20,
R15S, R9S, R6S, or MRS and located outside the peripheral boundary of the
master plan community, the nonresidential area and all nonresidential and
residential use therein shall be screened by a bufferyard “E” or equivalent
screen per Article P of this chapter. The purpose of the bufferyard “E” or
equivalent screen shall be to provide a complete visual barrier between said
single-family residential zoning district and the nonresidential area at the
time of development of the nonresidential area. Screening required pursuant to
this subsection may be phased to coincide with development of the
nonresidential area provided compliance with the purpose of this subsection.
The Board of Adjustment shall approve by condition the location and phasing of
the required screen at the time of special use permit approval. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, in agricultural master plan communities this provision shall not
apply to farms.
         (d)   Shall not be developed for any purpose other than as specified
under subsection (F) below until (i) a minimum of 50% of the residential lots
and/or residential tracts located within the residential designated area(s)
have been final platted and (ii) not less than 20% of the total number of
dwelling units approved for said lots and/or tracts have been constructed and
have been issued temporary and/or final occupancy permits. For purposes of this
section units or beds in a congregate care facility shall not be included in or
count toward the total number of dwelling units.
         (e)   Plans for nonresidential development and any associated
residential uses located on any designated nonresidential area may be submitted
and approved following special use permit approval of the land use plan,
however no building or other permit shall be issued for any nonresidential area
use, including residential use, until the minimum number of dwelling units have
been constructed and permitted for occupancy in designated residential areas
per subsection (d) above.
         (f)   Streets, greenways, sidewalk and bike paths, drainage and
utility improvements, public recreation areas and improvements, and public
service delivery improvements, buildings or structures shall be permitted
within any nonresidential area at any time following special use permit
approval of the land use plan, and compliance with applicable subdivision
regulations or other required permits for such improvements.
         (g)   Residential uses located within a nonresidential area shall be
subject to the requirements, conditions and restrictions applicable to
nonresidential uses.
   (B)   Regulation of uses. Subject to subsection (a) of this section, a
master plan community may contain the permitted uses as listed in subsections
(5) and (6) below in accordance with the following:
      (1)   Such uses shall be subject only to the development standards
included in this article unless otherwise noted.
      (2)   The listed uses contained in subsections (5) and (6) below are
permitted uses within a master plan community, provided compliance with all
provisions in this article, and no further special use permit is required for
such uses following approval of the land use plan special use permit for the
planned unit development within which said uses are proposed to be located.
      (3)   Residential uses shall be permitted in any area designated as
either residential and/or nonresidential area if such combined use is indicated
upon the approved land use plan, however nonresidential uses shall only be
permitted within designated nonresidential areas. Where such combined use is
proposed, the number and type of dwelling unit shall be indicated on the land
use plan at the time of special use permit application. The location of all
farms in an agricultural master plan community must also be shown at the time
of special use permit application.
      (4)   All definitions shall be per Article B of this chapter unless
otherwise defined in this article.
      (5)   Permitted residential uses:
         (a)   Single-family dwelling;
         (b)   Two-family attached dwelling (duplex);
         (c)   Multi-family development (apartment, condominium and/or
townhouse);
         (d)   Family care home, subject to
9-4-103;
         (e)   Accessory building or use;
         (f)   Public recreation or park facility;
         (g)   Private recreation facility;
         (h)   Church or place of worship;
         (i)   Golf course; regulation;
         (j)   City of Greenville municipal government building or use subject
to
9-4-103;
         (k)   Retirement center or home including accessory nursing care
facilities (each separate dwelling unit and/or each five beds in a congregant
care facility shall constitute one dwelling unit for residential development
density purposes regardless of location);
         (l)   Room renting.
      (6)   Permitted nonresidential uses:
         (a)   School; elementary subject to
9-4-103;
         (b)   School; kindergarten or nursery subject to
9-4-103;
         (c)   School; junior and senior high subject to
9-4-103;
         (d)   Child day care facilities;
         (e)   Adult day care facilities;
         (f)   Barber or beauty shop;
         (g)   Office; professional and business not otherwise listed in
Article D;
         (h)   Medical, dental, ophthalmology or similar clinic not otherwise
listed in Article D;
         (i)   Library;
         (j)   Art gallery;
         (k)   Grocery; food or beverage, off-premise consumption;
         (l)   Convenience store (not including principal or accessory auto
fuel sales);
         (m)   Pharmacy;
         (n)   Restaurant; conventional;
         (o)   Restaurant; outdoor activities;
         (p)   Bank, savings and loan or other savings or investment
institutions;
         (q)   City of Greenville municipal government building or use subject
to
9-4-103;
         (r)   Accessory building or use;
         (s)   Microbrewery.
      (7)   Permitted residential uses, in an agricultural master plan
community only:
         (a)   Farming; agriculture, horticulture, forestry;
         (b)   Greenhouse or plant nursery; including accessory sales;
         (c)   Wayside market for farm products produced on site;
         (d)   Beekeeping; minor use.
      (8)   Permitted nonresidential uses, in agricultural master plan
community only:
         (a)   Commercial agricultural facility;
         (b)   Farmer's market;
         (c)   Wellness center, indoor and outdoor facilities;
         (d)   Convention center; private;
         (e)   Hotel, motel, bed and breakfast inn; limited stay lodging (not
to exceed ten units/rooms).
   (C)   Maximum base density requirements.
      (1)   Residential base density shall not exceed four dwelling units per
gross acre of the entire master plan community including both residential and
nonresidential areas, except as further provided under the density bonus
options contained in section
9-4-162(J). Residential density may be allocated to a designated nonresidential
area per subsection (K) of this section provided such designation is noted on
the approved land use plan and the dwelling unit density of the residential
area is reduced proportionally.
      (2)   Except as further provided under subsection (3) below,
nonresidential use designated area(s) shall not exceed 5% of the gross master
plan community acreage regardless of the actual amount of developed land area
devoted to any nonresidential use or activity. Residential development within a
designated nonresidential area shall not increase the land area designated as
nonresidential.
      (3)   Nonresidential use designated areas that are located entirely
within a Water Supply Watershed (WS) Overlay District shall not exceed 20% of
the gross master plan community acreage regardless of the actual amount of
developed land area devoted to any nonresidential use or activity, provided
compliance with all of the following:
         (a)   The master plan community shall contain not less than 100 gross
acres.
         (b)   The total number of approved single-family, two-family attached
(duplex) and/or multi-family dwelling units located within the master planned
community shall equal or exceed 300 total dwelling units. For purposes of this
requirement, units or beds in a congregate care facility shall not be included
in or count toward the total number of dwelling units.
         (c)   The nonresidential area and development therein shall be subject
to the Water Supply Watershed (WS) Overlay District standards as set forth
under section 9-4-197 of this chapter. This shall not apply to agricultural
master plan communities.
         (d)   If any portion of any nonresidential designated area is located
outside the Water Supply Watershed (WS) Overlay District all nonresidential use
designated area(s) shall not exceed 5% of the gross master plan community
acreage regardless of the actual amount of developed land area devoted to any
nonresidential use or activity.
   (D)   Open space requirements.
      (1)   A master plan community shall reserve not less than 25% of the
gross acreage as common open space.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided, such open space area shall not be
used as a building site or be utilized for any public street right-of-way or
private street easement, private driveway or parking area or other impervious
improvement.
      (3)   A minimum of one-third of the required open space shall be
contained in one continuous undivided part, except for the extension of
streets. For purposes of this requirement, such open space areas shall not
measure less than 30 feet in width at the narrowest point.
      (4)   Not more than 25% percent of the required open space shall lie
within any floodway zone.
      (5)   If developed in sections, the open space requirements set forth
herein shall be coordinated with the construction of dwelling units and other
facilities to insure that each development section shall receive benefit of the
total common open space. A final subdivision plat shall be recorded in the Pitt
County Register of Deeds which clearly describes the open space(s) and
conditions thereof, prior to the issuance of any building permit(s).
      (6)   Such open space area shall be legally and practically accessible to
the residents of the development, or to the public if so dedicated.
      (7)   Such open space area shall be perpetually owned and maintained for
the purposes of this article by a property owners’ association or, if accepted
by the city, dedicated or deeded to the public.
      (8)    Streets, private drives, off-street parking areas and structures
or buildings shall not be utilized in calculating or counting towards the
minimum common open space requirement; however, lands occupied by public and/or
private recreational buildings or structures, bike paths and similar common
facilities may be counted as required open space provided that such impervious
surfaces constitute no more than 5% of the total required common open space.
      (9)   In an agricultural master plan community enclosed farm land that is
made accessible through the provision of perimeter and connective trails,
regardless of dimension, may be counted towards the 25% open space requirement.
      (10)   In the designation and approval of common open space,
consideration shall be given to the suitability of location, shape, character
and accessibility of such space. The location and arrangement of any common
open space(s) shall be subject to Board of Adjustment approval.
   (E)   Recreation space requirement.
      (1)   A minimum of 25% of the required gross common open space in a
master plan community shall be developed for active recreational purposes. For
purposes of this section, “active recreation” shall include, but not be limited
to, tennis courts, swimming pools, ball fields, fitness courses, and the like.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment may rely on the advice of the Director of
Recreation and Parks concerning the suitability of proposed “active recreation”
facilities.
   (F)   Dedication of open space, park lands and greenways.
      (1)   If any portion of the area proposed for a master plan community
lies within an area designated in the officially adopted greenway master plan
as a greenway corridor, the area so designated shall be included as part of the
area set aside to satisfy the open space requirements of this section. The area
within such greenway corridor shall be dedicated and/or reserved to the public
at the option of the city.
      (2)   Where land is dedicated to and accepted by the city for open space,
park and recreation purposes and/or greenways, such lands may be included as
part of the gross acreage, open space and/or recreation space requirement of
this article.
      (3)   Approved master plan community shall not be subject to any
recreation and/or open space requirement of the subdivision and/or zoning
regulations not otherwise included in this chapter.
   (G)   Off-street parking requirement.
      (1)   Parking requirements shall be in accordance with Article O of this
chapter.
   (H)   Bufferyard setbacks and vegetation requirements for site developments,
parking lots and drives.
      (1)   Bufferyard setbacks shall be in accordance with Article G of this
chapter.
      (2)   Vegetation requirements shall be in accordance with Article P of
this chapter.
   (I)   Driveways.
      (1)   Driveways shall be in accordance with
Title 6, Chapter 2, Streets and Sidewalks of the Greenville City Code.
   (J)   Residential density bonus provisions and standards. A residential
density bonus rounded to the nearest whole number and not to exceed a total of
200% - (eight units per gross acre) - over the allowable base density as set
forth in section
9-4-162(C) may be approved by the Board of Adjustment in accordance with the
standards for allowing density bonuses listed below. The applicable
requirements of section
9-4-167(C), preliminary plat-site plan requirements, shall be indicated on the
land use plan in sufficient detail to enable the Board of Adjustment to
evaluate such density bonus proposals. Regardless of the density bonus
provision satisfied or approved, the total residential density of any master
plan community shall not exceed 12 dwelling units per gross acre.
      (1)   Common open space. Increasing the common open space area by 20 or
more percent above the required common open space provisions (i.e., to 45% or
more) shall allow a bonus of 50% - (two total units per gross acre) - above the
base density of a master plan community.
      (2)   Bike paths/greenway systems. The provision of a constructed system
of bike paths/pedestrian greenways that form a logical, safe and convenient
system of access to all dwelling units, interior project facilities or
principal off-site pedestrian destinations shall qualify for a density bonus.
Such facilities shall be appropriately located, designed and constructed with
existing topography, land form, and vegetation in accordance with the Greenway
Master Plan requirements and other amenities associated with the master plan
community.
   (K)   Combination of use. Combination of use shall only be permitted in
areas designated as “nonresidential” on the approved land use plan. Residential
and nonresidential uses may be approved to be located on the same lot and in
the same structure provided such combined uses individually comply with all
standards applicable to each uses. Where residential and nonresidential uses
are located in the same structure the more restrictive requirements and
regulations shall apply to all common structures.
(Ord. 09-99, § 7, passed 12-10-2009; Ord. No. 20-059, § 4, passed 10-19-2020;
Ord. No. 21-019, § 1, passed 4-12-2021; Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021;
Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 9-4-163 MASTER PLAN COMMUNITY; RESIDENTIAL USES DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS.
(See also section
9-4-162(k) Combination of use)
   (A)   Lot area. The lot area for each detached single-family dwelling shall
be no less than 4,000 square feet.
   (B)   Lot width. No minimum lot width for detached single-family dwelling,
however, all lots shall contain a building site of like design and area to
other lots within the common development. Lot width for each attached dwelling
unit shall be not less than 16 feet. For purposes of this section, “lot width”
shall include condominium unit width.
   (C)   Lot frontage. Forty feet, except on the radius of a cul-de-sac where
such distance may be reduced to 20 feet.
   (D)   Public or private street setback. Except as further provided, no
principal or accessory structure shall be closer than 20 feet to a public
street right-of-way or private street easement. Detached single-family
dwellings shall be setback not less than 15 feet from a public street right-of-
way or private street easement or as further provided herein.
   (E)   Minimum side yard. The side yard area required for detached single-
family and two-family attached dwellings may be subject to section 9-4-165
(zero lot line) or not less than 12 feet, provided however, that no detached
single-family or two-family attached structure shall be located on more than
one exterior side lot line.
Detached single-family and two-family dwellings which do not utilize the
provisions of section
9-4-165 (zero lot line) and are not located adjacent to a structure or lot
subject to section
9-4-165 (zero lot line) shall maintain a minimum side setback of not less than
six feet.
The side yard area required for attached units shall be subject to the
applicable provisions of section
9-4-165 (zero lot line) provided the end unit of an attached building group
containing three or more units is not less than 16 feet from an adjacent
property, line or building.
   (F)   Minimum rear yard. Except as further provided, the rear yard area
required for detached or attached dwelling units shall be subject to section
9-4-165  (zero lot line) or not less than 20 feet. Detached single-family
dwellings shall be subject to section
9-4-165  (zero lot line) or not less than 12 feet.
   (G)   Building separation. Building separation within group developments
containing two or more principal structures on one lot of record shall be
subject to the following:
      (1)   No portion of a principal structure front or rear building wall
elevation shall be located less than 40 feet from an adjacent principal
structure front or rear building wall elevation as measured at 90 degrees.
      (2)   No portion of a principal structure side building wall elevation
shall be located less than 20 feet from an adjacent principal structure as
measured at 90 degrees.
      (3)   No portion of any principal structure shall be located less than 16
feet from any other principal structure as measured to the closest point.
      (4)   Architectural extensions including, but not limited to, bay
windows, chimneys, open porches and decks, roof overhangs and balconies shall
not be considered in calculating building separation provided such
encroachments are not more than three feet.
   (H)   Maximum height. No structures or buildings having a zero side and/or
rear setback in accordance with section
9-4-165  shall exceed 35 feet in height above the property grade.
   (I)   Periphery boundary setback and vegetation requirement. No portion of a
master plan community including accessory structures, parking areas or required
yards shall be located less than 20 feet from the peripheral boundaries of the
master plan community. The peripheral boundary setback area shall be left in
its natural vegetative state or shall be landscaped in accordance with the
screening requirements for a bufferyard “G” classification as specified in
Article P of this chapter. Where the natural vegetation does not meet the
minimum bufferyard “C” requirements then additional vegetation shall be
installed as a condition of development prior to occupancy of dwellings or
units within the respective section or phase. Public dedicated and accepted
recreation and park land, as well as private farms and associated perimeter
trails, may encroach into the peripheral boundary setback.
   (J)   Additional attached dwelling transition setback. The following scale
shall be utilized in the calculation of the minimum building setback, in
addition to the periphery boundary setback as specified above, between proposed
attached dwelling units including their accessory structures and existing
single-family zoning districts or other predominantly single-family development
as defined herein that border the master plan community. For purposes of this
subsection, “other predominantly single-family development” shall be that area
within 100 feet of the external boundary of the master plan community district
in which 50% or more of the conforming land uses are single-family residential.
      Number of Units per Building    Additional Setback (Feet)
         2               20
         3 - 5               40
         6 - 10               60
         11 or over            80
   (K)   Recreation area setback. No portion of an active private recreation
area shall be located within 50 feet of the external boundary of the master
plan community. Public recreation areas or park land dedicated or deeded to the
city shall not be subject to any external boundary setback and may be located
in the peripheral boundary setback area.
   (L)   Transition area setback. Where a master plan community adjoins or
borders an existing single-family zoning district or other predominantly
single-family development sharing common frontage on the same or opposite side
of a public or private street, the minimum right-of-way and/or easement setback
requirement of said single-family zone of development shall be utilized for the
entire opposite frontage and 200 feet from such common border along such
street. For purposes of this subsection, “other predominantly single-family
development” shall be that area within one hundred feet number of the external
boundary of the master plan community in which 50% or more of the conforming
land uses are single-family residential. For purposes of this section, the
minimum setback requirement along any common intersecting street may transition
from the minimum right-of-way and/or easement setback requirement of the
adjoining single-family zone or development to the minimum setback requirement
specified under section
9-4-163(D).
   (M)   Building length. No continuous unit or series of attached units shall
exceed a combined length of 260 feet. Where a continuous unit or series of
units is separated by an attached and enclosed common area or enclosed
community facility structure utilized for recreation, food delivery
(cafeteria), assembly, and the like, the “building length” measurement shall
not include the attached and enclosed common area or enclosed community
facility. Portions of buildings separated by an enclosed common area or
enclosed community facility shall be considered as separated for purposes of
this section (M).
   (N)   Storage area required. Every dwelling unit shall provide private
storage in the amount of 10% of the gross habitable flood area. The living area
including closets and attics shall not count toward the required private
storage area. Such storage area shall be provided in the form of attached
utility rooms, detached accessory structures, and/or private yard area
available for such future use or otherwise as approved by the Board of
Adjustment. This section shall not apply to congregate care facilities.
   (O)   Accessory structure requirements.
      (1)   Shall not be located within any front yard.
      (2)   Detached accessory structures which are constructed with a one-hour
fire rated assembly as required by the North Carolina State Building Code, as
amended, shall not be located less than five feet from any principal structure.
It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to demonstrate compliance
with this section. Detached accessory structures that are not constructed with
a one-hour fire rated assembly shall not be located less than ten feet from any
principal structure. No detached accessory structure shall be located less than
five feet from any other detached accessory structure located on the same lot.
      (3)   Shall not cover more than 20% of any side yard or rear yard.
      (4)   The side or rear yard requirement for attached and detached
accessory structures shall be subject to the provisions of section
9-4-165 (zero lot line) or not less than five feet.
      (5)   Satellite dish antennae and swimming pools shall comply with the
applicable provisions of Article F, Dimensional standards.
      (6)   For purposes of this section any accessory structure attached to a
principal structure shall be subject to the setback requirements of the
principal structure.
   (P)   Residential garbage/trash container, recycling center and compactor
locations.
      (1)   No garbage/trash container or recycling center shall be located
closer than 20 feet to any dwelling structure and no compactor shall be located
closer than 50 feet to any dwelling structure.
      (2)   Each garbage/trash container required to service the development
shall be located within 200 feet of the dwelling units such container is
intended to serve.
      (3)   Garbage/trash containers and recycling centers shall be enclosed on
three sides by a complete visual screen consisting of a fence, vegetation or
combination thereof.
      (4)   Except as further provided, compactors shall be completely enclosed
by a visual screen and safety barrier composed of an opaque masonry wall and
opaque metal or wooden gate, said wall and gate shall be not less than two feet
higher than the highest point of the compactor. The Director of Planning and
Development Services or designee may approve substitute wall and gate material
provided the wall and gate results in an opaque visual screen and safety
barrier as required by this subsection; vegetation shall not be acceptable for
this purpose.
      (5)   Garbage/trash containers, recycling centers and compactors shall be
in accordance with
Title 6, Chapter 3, Garbage and Refuse Collection and Disposal, of the
Greenville City Code.
   (Q)   Setback exemption. Except as further provided, minimum non-screening
bufferyard “B” setbacks set forth under section
9-4-119, and/or minimum street right-of-way building setbacks may be reduced by
up to 10%, at the option of the owner, where such reduction is necessary to
retain an existing ten-inch plus caliper large tree, provided: (i) such tree is
determined, by the director of Planning and Development Services or their
designated representative, to be either natural growth (seedling) vegetation or
that such tree has been in existence for not less than 20 years at the current
location, otherwise previously transplanted trees shall not qualify for
purposes of this section, (ii) that such reduction is indicated upon an
approved site plan; including the location, type and caliper of the subject
tree, and the building separation and future no-build zone as further
described, (iii) that a building to tree trunk separation of not less than ten
feet is maintained at the time of initial construction, (iv) no new future
buildings, expansions or additions to existing buildings, or other impervious
areas including parking areas and/or drives, shall be allowed to encroach into
a designated future no-build zone, described as a ten-foot radius from the
center of the trunk of the retained tree, and (v) a six-inch or greater caliper
large tree shall be substituted in replacement of any dead or diseased tree
qualified under this requirement, at the location of the removed tree, within
60 days of removal of the tree by the owner or within said period following
notice by the city. The setback reduction allowance shall not apply to single-
family and two-family attached (duplex) development or associated accessory
structures.
   (R)   When both residential and nonresidential uses are included in one
common structure the more restrictive requirements shall apply to the entire
structure.
(Ord. No. 09-99, § 7, passed 12-10-2009; Ord. No. 10-34, § 2, 4-8-2010; Ord.
19-045, § 1, passed 9-12- 2019; Ord. No. 20-059, § 5, passed 10-19-2020; Ord.
No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-4-164 MASTER PLAN COMMUNITY; NONRESIDENTIAL USE DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS.
(See also section
9-4-162(k) Combination of use)
   (A)   Lot area. No minimum.
   (B)   Lot width. No minimum.
   (C)   Public or private street setback. No principal or accessory structure
shall be closer than 20 feet to a public street right-of-way or private street
easement.
   (D)   Minimum side yard. Fifteen feet.
   (E)   Minimum rear yard. Twenty feet.
   (F)   Height. No structure or building shall exceed 35 feet in height above
the property grade.
   (G)   Building separation. No structure or building shall be located within
20 feet of any other structure or building.
   (H)   Nonresidential condominium or townhouse type development. Shall be
subject to the applicable provisions of section
9-4-165 (zero lot line).
   (I)   Accessory structure requirement. Shall be in accordance with principal
building setbacks.
   (J)   Nonresidential garbage/trash container, recycling center and compactor
locations.
      (1)   Garbage/trash containers and recycling centers shall be enclosed on
three sides by a complete visual screen consisting of a fence, vegetation or
combination thereof.
      (2)   Except as further provided, compactors shall be completely enclosed
by a visual screen and safety barrier composed of an opaque masonry wall and
opaque metal or wooden gate, said wall and gate shall be not less than two feet
higher than the highest point of the compactor. The Director of Planning and
Development Services or designee may approve substitute wall and gate material
provided the wall and gate results in an opaque visual screen and safety
barrier as required by this subsection; vegetation shall not be acceptable for
this purpose.
      (3)   Garbage/trash containers, recycling centers and compactors shall be
in accordance with
Title 6, Chapter 3, Garbage and Refuse Collection and Disposal, of the
Greenville City Code.
   (K)   Setback exemption. Except as further provided, minimum non-screening
bufferyard “B” setbacks set forth under section
9-4-119, and/or minimum street right-of-way building setbacks may be reduced by
up to 10%, at the option of the owner, where such reduction is necessary to
retain an existing ten-inch plus caliper large tree, provided: (i) such tree is
determined, by the Director of Planning and Development Services or their
designated representative, to be either natural growth (seedling) vegetation or
that such tree has been in existence for not less than 20 years at the current
location, otherwise previously transplanted trees shall not qualify for
purposes of this section, (ii) that such reduction is indicated upon an
approved site plan; including the location, type and caliper of the subject
tree, and the building separation and future no-build zone as further
described, (iii) that a building to tree trunk separation of not less than ten
feet is maintained at the time of initial construction, (iv) no new future
buildings, expansions or additions to existing buildings, or other impervious
areas including parking areas and/or drives, shall be allowed to encroach into
a designated future no-build zone, described as a ten-foot radius from the
center of the trunk of the retained tree, and (v) a six-inch or greater caliper
large tree shall be substituted in replacement of any dead or diseased tree
qualified under this requirement, at the location of the removed tree, within
60 days of removal of the tree by the owner or within said period following
notice by the city.
   (L)   When both residential and nonresidential uses are included in one
common structure the more restrictive requirements shall apply to the entire
structure.
(Ord. No. 09-99, § 7, 12-10-2009; Ord. No. 10-34, § 3, 4-8-2010; Ord. 19-045, §
1, passed 9-12-2019; Ord. No. 20-059, § 6, passed 10-19-2020)
SEC. 9-4-165 ZERO SIDE OR REAR YARD SETBACKS FOR DETACHED AND ATTACHED
BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   A zero side or rear yard setback where the side or rear building line
is on the side or rear lot line as permitted herein, may be permitted, subject
to the following provisions:
      (1)   Any wall constructed on the side or rear lot line shall be a solid
door less and windowless wall. Such wall shall contain no electrical,
mechanical, heating, air conditioning or other fixtures that project beyond
such wall. If there is an offset of the wall from the lot line, such offset
shall be subject to the provisions of section
9-4-163 and/or section
9-4-164. Roof eaves may encroach two feet into the adjoining lot; provided,
this provision shall not be construed or applied to affect private property
rights of adjoining owners.
      (2)   A five-foot maintenance and access easement with a maximum eave
encroachment easement of two feet within the maintenance easement shall be
established on the adjoining lot and shall assure ready access to the lot line
wall at reasonable periods of the day for normal maintenance;
      (3)   No two units or structures shall be considered attached unless such
units or structures share a five-foot common party wall; and
      (4)   Common party walls of attached units shall be constructed in
accordance with the North Carolina State Building Code, G.S. Chapter 47C (North
Carolina Condominium Act) and other applicable requirements.
(Ord. 09-99, § 7, passed 12-10-2009; Ord. No. 20-059, § 7, passed 10-19-2020;
Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-4-166 SPECIAL USE PERMIT; APPLICATION, LAND USE PLAN, PRELIMINARY PLAT-
SITE PLAN AND FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application. An application for a special use permit to develop a
specific master plan community shall only be considered when the development
property is zoned to a district that permits such special use option. See
Article D, section
9-4-78(F)(2) of this chapter for applicable districts.
      (1)   Criteria. In addition to other considerations, the following may be
utilized by the Board of Adjustment in evaluation of a special use permit
pursuant to G.S. 160D-705(c):
         (a)   That the proposed population densities, land use and other
special characteristics of development can exist in harmony with adjacent
areas;
         (b)   That the adjacent areas can be developed in compatibility with
the proposed master plan community; and
         (c)   That the proposed master plan community will not adversely
affect traffic patterns and flow in adjacent areas.
   (B)   Land use plan. All applications for approval of a master plan
community special use permit shall be accompanied by a land use plan prepared
by a registered engineer or surveyor, submitted in accordance with section
9-5-44 of the subdivision regulations for preliminary plats and which shall
include but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   The numbers and types of residential dwelling units including
density and density bonus options proposed within each section and the
delineation of nonresidential areas;
      (2)   Planned primary and secondary traffic circulation patterns showing
proposed and existing public street rights-of-way;
      (3)   Common open space and recreation areas to be developed or preserved
in accordance with this article;
      (4)   Any proposed convention center must be shown in terms of location
and scale, and all proposed event types must be listed;
      (5)   Minimum peripheral boundary, transition area, and site development
setback lines;
      (6)   Proposed water, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, natural gas and
underground electric utilities and facilities to be installed per Greenville
Utilities Commission and city standards;
      (7)   The delineation of areas to be constructed in sections, showing
acreage;
      (8)   Water supply watershed overlay district delineation;
      (9)   Regulated wetlands delineation;
      (10)   Boundary survey of the tract showing courses and distances and
total acreage, including zoning, land use and lot lines of all contiguous
property;
   (C)   Preliminary plat-site plan requirements. After approval of the land
use plan special use permit as set forth herein, the developer shall submit the
following according to the approved schedule of development:
      (1)   All information required by and in accordance with
Title 9, Chapter 5, Subdivisions, of the Greenville City Code for submission of
preliminary plats;
      (2)   Where zero lot line options as provided under section
9-4-165 are proposed, the building area for such lots shall be indicated on the
plat.
   (D)   Final plat requirements. After approval of the preliminary plat as set
forth herein, the developer shall submit the following according to the
approved schedule of development:
      (1)   All information required and in accordance with
Title 9, Chapter 5, Subdivisions of the Greenville City Code for submission of
final plats;
      (2)   Where zero lot line setbacks are proposed, the building area for
such lots shall be indicated.
      (3)   A final plat shall be recorded for the purpose of creating a
boundary lot or tract for the entire master plan community prior to the
approval of any separate final plat for any section and prior to the issuance
of any permit for development in any section or phase located within the common
project. The purpose of this requirement is to establish a permanent boundary
for the master plan community project and to obtain any dedications of land,
easements, opens spaces and/or right-of-ways necessary to insure compliance
with this article. As individual section or phases within the boundary lot or
tract are final platted the area outside the section or phase shall be labeled
and referenced as “future development area” for the approved master plan
community.
   (E)   Site plans for specific developments. Site plans for specific
developments shall be reviewed in accordance with Article R of this chapter.
   (F)   Procedure; required review and special use permit approval.
      (1)   Land use plan; special use permit. The applicant for a special use
permit to develop a specific master plan community shall submit all information
as required herein to the Director of Planning and Development Services 40
working days prior to the scheduled Board of Adjustment public hearing.
         (a)   Contents. All information as required by Section
9-4-166(B), Land use plan.
         (b)   Supplemental information. The land use plan may include, at the
option of the applicant, other additional information and details in support of
the petition and/or voluntary conditions of approval including additional
landscaping, setbacks, buffers, screening, specific building design and
arrangement, or other site improvements or proposed facilities. Supplemental
information offered by the applicant shall constitute a condition of approval
of the special use permit if approved.
         (c)   The Board of Adjustment shall hold a public hearing to review
the special use permit application. The Board of Adjustment may in its
discretion attach reasonable conditions to the plan to insure that the purposes
of the master plan community can be met.
         (d)   The Board of Adjustment may in its discretion attach conditions
to the plan that exceed the minimum standards as set forth herein when it is
found that such conditions are necessary to insure that the proposed master
plan community will be compatible with adjacent areas.
         (e)   Required findings. Prior to approval of a special use permit,
the City Council shall make appropriate findings to insure that the following
requirements are met:
            1.   That the property described was, at the time of special use
permit application, zoned to a district that allows master plan community
subject to special use permit approval as provided by
Title 9, Chapter 4, Article J, of the Greenville City Code.
            2.   That the applicant for a special use permit to develop the
master plan community is the legal owner, and/or representative in the case of
a property owners’ association, of the subject property.
            3.   That those persons owning property within 100 feet of the
proposed master plan community as listed on the current county tax records were
served notice of the evidentiary hearing by first class mail in accordance with
applicable requirements.
            4.   That notice of an evidentiary hearing to consider the master
plan community special use permit was published in a newspaper having general
circulation in the area, as required by law.
            5.   That master plan community meets all required conditions and
specifications of the zoning ordinance for submission of a master plan
community special use permit.
            6.   That master plan community has existing or proposed utility
services which are adequate for the population densities as proposed.
            7.   That the master plan community is properly located in relation
to arterial and collector streets and is designed so as to provide direct
access without creating traffic which exceeds acceptable capacity as determined
by the City Engineer on streets in adjacent areas outside the master plan
community.
            8.   That the master plan community is in general conformity with
Horizons 2026: Greenville’s Community Plan.
            9.   That the total development, as well as each individual section
of the master plan community can exist as an independent unit capable of
creating an environment of sustained desirability and stability.
            10.   That the master plan community will not adversely affect the
health and safety of persons residing or working in the neighborhood of the
proposed development and will not be detrimental to the public welfare if
located and developed according to the plan as submitted and approved.
            11.   That the master plan community will not injure, by value or
otherwise, adjoining or abutting property or public improvements in the
neighborhood or in the alternative, that the use is a public necessity.
            12.   That the location and character of the master plan community,
if developed according to the plan as submitted and approved will be in harmony
with the area in which it is to be located.
         (f)   Notice; publication.A notice of the evidentiary hearing shall be
given once a week for two successive weeks in a newspaper having general
circulation in the local government’s planning and development jurisdiction
area, the notice shall be published the first time not less than 10 days nor
more than 25 days preceding the hearing.
         (g)   Notice of hearing. Notice of evidentiary hearings shall be
mailed to the person or entity whose appeal, application, or request is the
subject of the hearing; to the owner of the property that is the subject of the
hearing if the owner did not initiate the hearing; to the owners of all parcels
of land abutting the parcel of land that is the subject of the hearing; and to
any other persons entitled to receive notice as provided by the local
development regulation. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, the local
government may rely on the county tax listing to determine owners of property
entitled to mailed notice. The notice must be deposited in the mail at least 10
days, but not more than 25 days, prior to the date of the hearing. Within that
same time period, the local government shall also prominently post a notice of
the hearing on the site that is the subject of the hearing or on an adjacent
street or highway right-of-way. The board may continue an evidentiary hearing
that has been convened without further advertisement. If an evidentiary hearing
is set for a given date and a quorum of the board is not then present, the
hearing shall be continued until the next regular board meeting without further
advertisement.
         (h)   Action by Board of Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment shall act
on the special use permit application by one of the following:
            1.   Approve the application as submitted;
            2.   Approve the application, subject to reasonable conditions or
requirements;
            3.   Table or continue the application; or
            4.   Deny the application.
         (i)   Binding effect. If approved, the special use permit shall be
binding upon the applicant, successor and/or assigns and runs with the land.
         (j)   Voting. The Board of Adjustment shall vote as provided in state
law.
         (k)   Appeals from Board of Adjustment action. Appeal from final
action can be taken by filing a petition for certiorari with the Pitt County
Superior Court.
         (l)   Records and files of special use permit applications, actions
and approvals. Records and files of special use permit applications, actions
and approvals for each master plan community land use plan shall be maintained
in the City of Greenville Planning and Development Services Department. Such
records and files shall be available for public inspection during regular
working hours in accordance with applicable law.
      (2)   Preliminary plat-site plan. After approval of the land use plan
special use permit as provided herein or in conjunction therewith, the
developer shall submit all information as required below to the Director of
Planning and Development Services, or authorized agent, not less than 40
working days prior to the scheduled Planning and Zoning Commission meeting:
         (a)   The preliminary plat-site plan shall be reviewed and
administered pursuant to the provisions of this article and
Title 9, Chapter 5, Subdivisions of the Greenville City Code for preliminary
plats;
         (b)   Contents. All information as required by section
9-4-166(C) preliminary plat-site plan requirements;
         (c)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall review and approve the
submitted preliminary plat-site plan provided such is in conformance with the
approved land use plan and the provisions of this article; and
         (d)   No building permit shall be issued for any construction within
any master plan community until a preliminary plat-site plan has been approved
in accordance with the provisions of this article. Building
            permits may be issued in accordance with the applicable provisions
of this article and
Title 9, Chapter 5, Subdivisions of the Greenville City Code,
      (3)   Final plat. After approval of the preliminary plat-site plan as
provided herein, the developer shall submit all information as required below
to the Director of Planning and Development Services, or authorized agent, not
less than ten working days prior to the scheduled subdivision review board
meeting:
         (a)   The final plat shall be reviewed and administered pursuant to
the provisions of this article and
Title 9, Chapter 5 Subdivisions of the Greenville City Code for final plats;
         (b)   The final plat shall contain all information as required by
section
9-4-166(D), final plat requirements;
         (c)   The subdivision review board shall review and approve the final
plat provided such plat conforms to the approved preliminary plat-site plan;
and
         (d)   No building permit shall be issued within any master plan
community until a final plat and all covenants, restrictions, easements,
agreements or otherwise for such development or section thereof has been
recorded in the Pitt County Register of Deeds.
(Ord. 09-99, § 7, passed 12-10-2009; Ord. No. 14-049, § 5 & 6, passed 8-14-
2014; Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019; Ord. No. 20-059, § 8, passed 10-19-
2020; Ord. No. 21-019, §§ 1 - 7, passed 4-12-2021; Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed
6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-4-167 SITE DESIGN CRITERIA; GENERAL.
   (A)   Site planning; external relationship. Site planning in the proposed
development shall provide protection of the development from potentially
adverse surrounding influences and protection of surrounding areas from
potentially adverse influences of the development. Consideration will be given
to the location of uses, type of uses, open space, recreation areas, street
design and arrangement in the evaluation of the development and its
relationship with the surrounding areas.
   (B)   Site planning; internal relationship.
      (1)   Service and emergency access. Access and circulation shall be
adequately provided for firefighting apparatus and equipment, public and
private service delivery vehicles, and garbage and refuse collection.
      (2)   Utilities. Proposed utilities shall be adequate to serve the
proposed development and such utilities shall be extended to adjacent property
if it is determined to be in the interest of the city.
      (3)   Pedestrian circulation. A pedestrian circulation system is
encouraged in such development. Walkways for pedestrian use shall form a
logical, safe and convenient system of access to all dwelling units, project
facilities and principal off-site pedestrian destinations. Walkways to be used
by substantial numbers of children as routes to schools, play areas or other
destinations shall be so located and safeguarded as to minimize contact with
normal automobile traffic. Street crossings shall be held to a minimum. Such
walkways, where appropriately located, designed and constructed, may be
combined with other easements and used by emergency or public service vehicles,
but not be used by other automobile traffic. In addition, bike paths may be
incorporated into the pedestrian circulation system and are to be encouraged in
such developments.
      (4)   Open spaces. Common open space shall be proportionally distributed
throughout the master plan community and shall be accessible to all the
residents via a coordinated system of streets, sidewalks, improved greenways
and pedestrian and bicycle paths.
      (5)   Natural areas. Natural vegetated areas and environmentally
sensitive areas shall be preserved to the greatest extent possible. Such areas
shall be incorporated into common open spaces and shall not be included as part
of future building sites.
      (6)   Thoroughfares. Where an existing or proposed public thoroughfare
included on the approved Highway Map of the Comprehensive Transportation Plan
is adjacent to or within the proposed master plan community, plans for the
master plan community project will reflect said thoroughfares in a manner
conducive to good transportation planning.
         Existing and future thoroughfares shall be provided for in accordance
with current policies for the protection of rights-of-way and construction of
thoroughfares within the City of Greenville.
(Ord. No. 09-99, § 7, passed 12-10-2009; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-
2023)
SEC. 9-4-167.1 STORMWATER STANDARDS IN MASTER PLAN COMMUNITIES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   Built-upon area (BUA). That portion of a development project that is covered
by impervious or partially impervious cover including buildings, pavement,
gravel areas (e.g., roads, parking lots, paths), recreation facilities (e.g.,
tennis courts) and the like. (Note: wooden slatted decks and the water area of
a swimming pool are considered pervious.)
   Impervious surfaces. Those areas within developed land that prevent or
significantly impede the infiltration of stormwater into the soil. Common
"impervious surfaces" include but are not limited to roof tops, sidewalks,
walkways, patio areas, roads, driveways, parking lots, storage areas, brick or
concrete pavers, compacted gravel surfaces (roads, driveways, parking and
storage areas), and other surfaces which prevent or significantly impede the
natural infiltration of stormwater into the soil.
   New development. The following:
      (1)   Any activity including grubbing, stump removal and/or grading that
disturbs greater than one acre of land to establish, expand or replace a
single-family or duplex residential development or recreational facility. For
individual single-family residential lots of record that are not part of a
larger common plan of development or sale, the activity must also result in
greater than 10% built-upon area.
      (2)   Any activity including grubbing, stump removal and/or grading that
disturbs greater than one-half an acre of land to establish, expand or replace
a multi-family residential development or a commercial, industrial or
institutional facility.
   Redevelopment. Any rebuilding activity other than a rebuilding activity
that:
      (1)   Results in no net increase in built-upon area; and
      (2)   Provides equal or greater stormwater control than the previous
development.
   (B)   Attenuation requirements.
      (1)   At a minimum, new development and redevelopment as described in
this section shall not result in a net increase in peak flow leaving the site
from pre-development conditions for the one-year, five-year and ten-year, 24-
hour storm events.
      (2)   New development and redevelopment, as described in this section, in
areas at special risk with well documented water quantity problems as
determined by the City Engineer, shall not result in a net increase in peak
flow leaving the site from pre-development conditions for the 25-year, 24-hour
storm event.
      (3)   Peak flow leaving the site from pre-development conditions for the
one-year, five- year, ten-year and 25-year, 24-hour storm events shall be
calculated, and the plan shall be prepared and approved using the standards of
the City Engineer, as set forth in the city's Manual of Standard Designs and
Details and stormwater management program.
      (4)   The drainage plan as required by this section shall include but not
be limited to a site plan showing existing proposed buildings, storm drainage
facilities, ground cover, site construction plans with grading plan, and
drainage system; drainage facility design data including area map, engineering
calculations, area of impervious cover and total land area.
      (5)   ln the event that literal interpretation of this section creates an
undue hardship, the applicant may appeal to the Board of Adjustment for a
variance in whole or in part from this section.
      (6)   No part of this section shall be applied to structures existing
prior to the effective date of this section nor shall existing impervious
ground cover be used in the calculation of runoff.
   (C)   Exemptions to the attenuation requirement. Peak flow control is not
required for developments that meet one or more of the following requirements:
      (1)   The increase in peak flow between pre- and post-development
conditions does not exceed 10% (note that this exemption makes it easier to
conduct redevelopment activities); or
      (2)   The development occurs in a part of a drainage basin where
stormwater detention can aggravate local flooding problems as dete1mined by the
city.
      (3)   Redevelopment projects that replace or expand existing structures
or improvements and that do not result in a net increase in built-upon area.
(Ord. No. 20-059, § 9, passed 10-19-2020)
SEC. 9-4-168 STREET DESIGN CRITERIA.
   (A)   For the purposes of a master plan community, three types of streets
shall be utilized to provide internal access to the development. The three
types of streets are defined as:
      (1)   Minor street. Distributors within the master plan community that
provide linkage with major streets outside the master plan community; and
      (2)   Marginal access street. Those streets which connect with minor
streets to provide access to individual buildings within the master plan
community.
   (B)   The street design of all master plan communities shall be in
conformance with Title 9, Chapter 5, Subdivisions of the Greenville City Code,
the Manual of Standards, Designs and Details, and Horizons 2026: Greenville’s
Community Plan.
   (C)   Upon approval of the planning and zoning commission, interior roads
that service multi-family dwellings (with the exception of single-family and
two-family attached dwellings) or non-residential uses may be allowed to be
constructed as private streets, subject to the requirements of
Title 9, Chapter 5, Subdivisions, of the Greenville City Code. Where such
private streets are allowed, a property owners’ association shall perpetually
maintain such private streets in suitable conditions and state of repair for
the city to provide normal delivery of services, including but not limited to,
garbage pickup, police and fire protection. If at any time such private streets
are not maintained by the property owners’ association and travel upon them
becomes or will be hazardous or inaccessible to city service or emergency
vehicles, the city may cause such repairs after a reasonable period of
notification to the property owners’ association. In order to remove safety
hazards and ensure the safety and protection for the development, the city may
assess the cost of such repairs to the property owners’ association. The city
shall have no obligation or responsibility for maintenance or repair of such
private streets as a result of the normal delivery of services or otherwise by
the city or others using such streets. No private street(s) shall be allowed
unless a property owners’ association is established for the purpose of
providing for and perpetually maintaining such streets. All private streets
shall be dedicated to the city as utility and access easements. Where a private
street serves only one lot under separate ownership the property owner of such
lot shall assume all responsibilities, duties and liabilities of a property
owners’ association under this section.
(Ord. No. 09-99, § 7, passed 12-10-2009; Ord. No. 14-049, § 7, passed 8-14-
2014; Ord. No. 20-059, § 10, passed 10-19-2020; Ord. No. 21-019, § 1, passed 4-
12-2021; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 9-4-169 UTILITY SERVICES; MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Where utility facilities are provided on private property, the
following shall apply:
      (1)   Where utility lines, valves, fire hydrants or other utility
apparatus are installed by the property owner and/or developer, and such
improvements are required to be maintained by the property owners’ association
or property owner, the city and/or Greenville Utilities Commission may cause
such apparatus to be repaired or replaced upon its continued disrepair and
after a reasonable period of notification to the property owner. In order to
remove safety hazards and ensure the safety and protection for the development,
the city may assess the cost of such repairs or replacement to the property
owner or the property owners’ association.
(Ord. No. 09-99, § 7, passed 12-10-2009)
SEC. 9-4-170 AMENDMENT TO LAND USE PLAN SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Minor changes. Amendments to the approved land use plan special use
permit that in the opinion of the Director of Planning and Development Services
do not substantially change the concept of the master plan community as
approved may be allowed by administrative action of the Director of Planning
and Development Services or authorized agent. Such minor changes may include,
but are not limited to, small site alterations such as realignment of streets
and relocation of utility lines due to engineering necessity. The owners shall
request such amendment in writing, clearly setting forth the reasons for such
changes. If approved, the land use plan shall be so amended by administrative
action of the Director of Planning and Development Services or authorized agent
prior to submission of any preliminary plat-site plan application involving or
affecting such amendment. Appeal from the decision of the Director of Planning
and Development Services shall be taken to the Board of Adjustment within 30
days of the administrative action.
   (B)   Major changes. Amendments to the approved land use plan that in the
opinion of the Director of Planning and Development Services do in fact involve
substantial changes and deviations from the concept of the master plan
community as approved shall require review and approval pursuant to section
9-4-166(F). Such major changes shall include but not be limited to increased
density, change in street pattern, change in land use, location of land uses,
open space or recreation space location or area, and condition(s) of Board of
Adjustment approval. Appeal from the decision of the Director of Planning and
Development Services may be taken to the Board of Adjustment within 30 days of
the administrative action.
   (C)   Authority. Minor changes may be approved administratively by the
Director of Planning and Development Services or authorized agent. Major
changes shall require Board of Adjustment approval of an amended special use
permit.(Ord. No. 09-99, § 7, passed 12-10-2009; Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-
2019; Ord. No. 20-059, § 11, passed 10-19-2020; Ord. No. 21-019, § 8, passed 4-
12-2021; Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
ARTICLE K. LAND USE INTENSITY (LUI) DEVELOPMENT
SEC. 9-4-179 PURPOSE AND INTENT; TERMS AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Generally. The land use intensity (LUI) system is a development option
allowed pursuant to G.S. 160D-406 and 160D-705 for special use permit approval
of the Board of Adjustment and designed with the intent to:
      (1)   Provide an organized and comprehensive system for determining and
controlling the intensity with which land is developed;
      (2)   Replace conventional fixed yard, height, spacing and density
standards with floor area, open space, recreation space and livability space
ratios which widen development options while maintaining public benefits;
      (3)   Allow and encourage a variety of horizontal and vertical building
configurations;
      (4)   Encourage innovations in residential development so that the
growing demands of population may be met while insuring the livability of the
developments; and
      (5)   Provide a procedure which can evaluate a specific development on a
particular site to the particular demand for housing at the time of development
in a manner consistent with the preservation of property values within
established or future residential areas.
   (B)   Terms and definitions.
      Floor area (FA) and floor area ratio (FAR). FA is the total floor area
including mezzanines, interior balconies and upper floors, of all floors
measured from the outside faces of exterior walls. The floor area of all
buildings on a lot divided by the lot area is the FAR. FAR x GLA = maximum
floor area acceptable at a given LUI number.
      Gross land area (GLA). The sum of site land for residential use plus one-
half of the area of any abutting walk, alley or street right-of-way or
permanent open space (maximum width in feet of countable abutting open space is
equal to the LUI number of the parcel).
      Livability space (LS) and livability space ratio (LSR). LS is non-
vehicular open space and is part of total open space. LS is open space that is
designed for pedestrian use such as walkways, landscaped areas, and recreation
areas which are barred to automotive use. LSR x GLA = minimum livability space
acceptable for a given LUI number.
      Open space (OS) and open space ratio (OSR). OS is the sum of uncovered
open space and one-half of covered open space including off-site space used in
computing GLA. “Open space” need not be at ground level, if appropriately
improved. OSR x GLA = minimum open space acceptable for a given LUI number.
      Primary wall. Contains the principal windows in a habitable room, except
bedrooms and kitchens (thus including living rooms, dining rooms, family rooms
and the like).
      Recreation space (RS) and recreation space ratio (RSR). RS is the outdoor
area that is improved for the recreational use of all residents. RS is part of
both livability and open space. RSR x GLA = minimum recreation space acceptable
for a given LUI number.
      Secondary wall. Contains the windows of rooms other than those described
above for primary walls.
      Windowless wall. Contains no windows or only windows which do not involve
loss of privacy.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-4-180 LAND USE INTENSITY (LUI) RATINGS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   LUI rating: 50 (Subject to special use permit approval within the R-6,
R-6A, MR, OR and CDF Districts).
      (1)   Minimum lot area required: 15,000 square feet.
      (2)   Gross land area (GLA) multiplied by the following ratios equal the
maximum floor area and minimum space requirements.
         (a)   (GLA) x .400 = Floor area (FA).
         (b)   (GLA) x .72 = Open space (OS).
         (c)   (GLA) x .44 = Livability space (LS).
         (d)   (GLA) x .052 = Recreation space (RS).
      (3)   Minimum parking requirement.
         (a)   One-bedroom unit: One and two-tenths spaces.
         (b)   Two- or more bedroom unit: two spaces.
(Ord. No. 01-35, § 1, passed 3-08-2001)
   (B)   LUI rating: 67 (subject to special use permit approval within the R-6,
R-6A, MS, OR and CDF Districts).
      (1)   Minimum lot area required:
         (a)   R-6 Zoning District: 20 acres (871,200 square feet).
         (b)   All other districts: 55,000 square feet.
      (2)   Gross land area (GLA) multiplied by the following ratios equal the
maximum floor area and minimum space requirements.
         (a)   (GLA) x 1.30 = floor area (FA).
         (b)   (GLA) x .67 = open space (OS).
         (c)   (GLA) x .42 = livability space (LS).
         (d)   (GLA) x .104 = recreation space (RS).
      (3)   Minimum parking requirement. Per bed: Seventy-five hundredths of a
space.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 94-78, § 2, passed 6-9-1994;
Ord. No. 01-35, § 2, passed 3-08-2001)
SEC. 9-4-181 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   No principal or accessory structure shall be closer than 25 feet to a
public street right-of-way or private street easement.
   (B)   Side and rear setbacks and/or separation between buildings or opposing
wings of a building vary according to the type of wall involved.
      (1)   Primary wall. Six feet plus two feet for each story plus one foot
for each ten feet of wall length.
         Formula: D = 6+2S+L/10
         where D is the minimum setback distance, S is the number of stories,
and L is the length of wall.
      (2)   Secondary wall.  Two feet plus one foot for each story plus one
foot for each ten feet of wall length.
         Formula: D = 2+S+L/10.
      (3)   Windowless wall. Ten feet.
   (C)   No structure or building may exceed 90 feet in height above the
property grade unless the depth of the public or private street setback is
increased five feet for each ten feet, or fraction thereof, of building height
in excess of 90 feet.
   (D)   All off-street parking areas designed for three or more spaces shall
be in accordance with Article O.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-182 GARBAGE/TRASH CONTAINER, RECYCLING CENTER AND COMPACTOR LOCATIONS.
   (A)   No garbage/trash container or recycling center shall be located closer
than 20 feet to any dwelling structure and no compactor shall be located closer
than 50 feet to any dwelling structure.
   (B)   Each garbage/trash container required to service the development shall
be located within 200 feet of the dwelling units such container is intended to
serve.
   (C)   Garbage/trash containers and recycling centers shall be enclosed on
three sides by a complete visual screen consisting of a fence, vegetation or
combination thereof.
   (D)   Except as further provided, compactors shall be completely enclosed by
a visual screen and safety barrier composed of an opaque masonry wall and
opaque metal or wooden gate, said wall and gate shall be not less than two feet
higher than the highest point of the compactor. The Director of Planning and
Development Services or designee may approve substitute wall and gate material
provided the wall and gate results in an opaque visual screen and safety
barrier as required by this subsection; vegetation shall not be acceptable for
this purpose.
   (E)   Garbage/trash containers, recycling centers and compactors shall be in
accordance with Title 6, Chapter 3, Garbage and Refuse Collection and Disposal,
of the Greenville City Code.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 2466, § 5, passed 6-8-1992;
Ord. No. 10-34, § 4, 4-8- 2010; Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 9-4-183 PRIVATE STREETS.
   No new private streets for single-family and two-family attached dwellings
located on individual lots or on a common lot are allowed after August 14,
2014.
(Ord. No. 14-049, § 8, passed 8-14-2014; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-
2023)
SEC. 9-4-184 COMPLIANCE WITH SUBDIVISION STANDARDS.
   All development regulated in accordance with this article shall be subject
to the requirements, conditions and restrictions of the subdivision regulations
whether or not the subject tract is actually divided for the purpose of
transferring title.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-185 BUFFERYARD SETBACKS AND VEGETATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Bufferyard setbacks shall be in accordance with Article G of this
chapter.
   (B)   Vegetation requirements shall be in accordance with Article P of this
chapter.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 95-117, § 4, passed 11-9-1995)
SEC. 9-4-186 SPECIAL USE PERMIT; APPLICATION, CONTENT, EVIDENTIARY HEARING,
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL, REQUIRED FINDINGS, NOTICE, ACTION, APPEAL, AMENDMENT.
   (A)   Application. The applicant for a special use permit to develop a
specific land use intensity project shall submit all information as required
herein to the Director of Planning and Development Services not less than 40
working days prior to the scheduled Board of Adjustment meeting. Application
shall only be made in accordance with Appendix A, Permitted and Special Use,
and at the LUI rating specified for the particular use.
   (B)   Content; required review. The special use permit application shall
include (i) a site plan illustrating all buildings, structures, streets,
drives, parking, screening, berms, landscaping, open spaces, active recreation
areas and facilities, storm water structures, wetlands, flood hazard areas,
environmental limitations, utilities and other improvements per the Land
Development Administrative Manual, (ii) typical building and unit façade
illustrations including balconies, porches, patios, decorative and/or
functional walls and fences, and (iii) all additional information necessary for
the Board of Adjustment to insure compliance with this article, Title 9,
Chapter 5, Subdivisions of the Greenville City Code for preliminary subdivision
plats or other ordinances or regulations of the city and Utilities Commission.
   (C)   Evidentiary hearing. The Board of Adjustment shall hold an evidentiary
hearing to review the special use permit application. The Board of Adjustment
may in its discretion attach reasonable conditions to the plan to insure that
the standards of the land use intensity development as stated in section
9-4-179 can be met.
   (D)   Conditions of approval. The Board of Adjustment may in its discretion
attach conditions to the plan that exceed the minimum standards as set forth
herein when it is found that such conditions are necessary to insure that the
proposed development will be compatible with adjacent areas. Such conditions
may include, but not be limited to right-of-way setback, drives and parking,
screening, landscaping, bufferyard setback, building façade, building
configuration, density or other requirements.
   (E)   Required findings. Prior to approval of a special use permit, the
Board of Adjustment shall make appropriate findings to insure that the
following requirements are met:
      (1)   The use has existing or proposed utility services which are
adequate for the population densities as proposed.
      (2)   The use is properly located in relation to arterial and collector
streets and is designed so as to provide direct access without creating traffic
which exceeds acceptable capacity as determined by the City Engineer on streets
in adjacent areas outside the development.
      (3)   The use (i) will not adversely affect the health or safety of
persons residing or working in the neighborhood of the proposed use, (ii) will
not be detrimental to the public welfare, and (iii) will not constitute a
nuisance or hazard, if located and developed according to the plan as submitted
and approved. Such health and safety, public welfare and nuisance or hazard
considerations include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   The number of persons who can reasonably be expected to live
within or frequent the development at any one time.
         (b)   The intensity of the proposed development in relation to the
intensity of adjoining and area uses.
         (c)   The visual impact of the proposed development as viewed from
adjacent properties and public street rights-of-way.
         (d)   The location and extent of exterior physical activities of the
proposed use including common recreation areas and facilities, and common and/
or private patios, porches, balconies and open spaces.
         (e)   The reasonably anticipated noise or other objectionable
characteristics that will result from the proposed use, or as a result of any
element of project design.
         (f)   The safe and convenient location of all on-site parking and
drives.
         (g)   The existing vehicular traffic on area streets.
         (h)   The reasonably anticipated increase in vehicular traffic
generated by the proposed development.
         (i)   The condition and capacity of area street(s) which will provide
access to the proposed development.
         (j)   The visibility afforded to both pedestrians and operators of
motor vehicles both on-site and off-site.
         (k)   The anticipated, existing and designed vehicular and pedestrian
movements both on-site and off-site.
      (4)   The use meets all required conditions and specifications.
      (5)   The use will not injure, by value or otherwise, adjoining or
abutting property or public improvements in the neighborhood or in the
alternative, that the use is a public necessity.
      (6)   The location and character of the use if developed according to the
plan submitted and approved, will be in harmony with the area in which it is to
be located and in general conformity with the Comprehensive Land Use Plan of
the City of Greenville and its extraterritorial jurisdiction.
   (F)   Notice.
      (1)   Notice; publication. A notice of the evidentiary hearing shall be
given once a week for two successive weeks in a newspaper having general
circulation in the local government’s planning and development jurisdiction
area. The notice shall be published the first time not less than 10 days nor
more than 25 days preceding the hearing.
      (2)   Notice of hearing. Notice of evidentiary hearings shall be mailed
to the person or entity whose appeal, application, or request is the subject of
the hearing; to the owner of the property that is the subject of the hearing if
the owner did not initiate the hearing; to the owners of all parcels of land
abutting the parcel of land that is the subject of the hearing; and to any
other persons entitled to receive notice as provided by the local development
regulation. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, the city may rely on
the county tax listing to determine owners of property entitled to mailed
notice. The notice must be deposited in the mail at least 10 days, but not more
than 25 days, prior to the date of the hearing. Within that same time period,
the city shall also prominently post a notice of the hearing on the site that
is the subject of the hearing or on an adjacent street or highway right-of-way.
The board may continue an evidentiary hearing that has been convened without
further advertisement. If an evidentiary hearing is set for a given date and a
quorum of the board is not then present, the hearing shall be continued until
the next regular board meeting without further advertisement.
   (G)   Action by Board of Adjustment.
      (1)   Approve the application as submitted.
      (2)   Approve the application, subject to reasonable conditions or
requirements.
      (3)   Table or continue the application.
      (4)   Deny the application.
   (5)   If approved, the special use permit shall be binding upon the
application, successor and/or assigns and runs with the land.
   (H)   Appeal. Appeal from final action can be taken by filing a petition for
certiorari with the Pitt County Superior Court in accordance with applicable
laws.
   (I)   Amendment to special use permit.
      (1)   Minor changes. Amendments to the approved plan that in the opinion
of the Director of Planning and Development Services do not substantially
change the concept of the land use intensity (LUI) development as approved may
be allowed. Such minor changes may include but are not limited to small site
alterations such as relocation of interior utility service lines, internal
drainage systems and the like due to engineering necessity and alteration in
the internal configuration of the buildings as approved, provided the total
number of bedrooms is not increased. If approved, the development plan shall be
so amended prior to the issuance of any permit. Any such amendment shall also
require approval of the applicable administrative authority in the individual
case.
      (2)   Major changes. Amendments to the approved plan that in the opinion
of the Director of Planning and Development Services do in fact involve
substantial changes and deviations to the concept of the land use intensity
(LUI) development as approved shall require revision and approval in the nature
of an original application.
      (3)   Authority. Minor changes may be approved administratively by the
Director of Planning and Development Services. Major changes shall require
Board of Adjustment approval.
      (4)   Appeal. Decisions of the Director of Planning and Development
Services may be taken to the Board of Adjustment.
      (5)   Variances. The City Board of Adjustment shall not be authorized to
grant or approve any variance from the minimum requirements as set forth in
this article.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006;
Ord. No. 10-33, §§ 1, 2, 4-8-2010; Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019; Ord. No.
21-019, §§ 10 - 16, passed 4-12-2021; Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
ARTICLE L. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
SEC. 9-4-193 PLANNED UNOFFENSIVE INDUSTRY (PIU) AND PLANNED INDUSTRY (PI)
DISTRICT STANDARDS.
   (A)   No PIU or PI District shall contain less than 100 gross acres.
   (B)   The PIU and PI Districts may be combined to meet the minimum
requirement of this section, provided the districts are contiguous.
   (C)   Addition to any existing PIU and PI District or combination thereof
may be allowed provided the addition meets or exceeds all other applicable
requirements.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-194 RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD REVITALIZATION (R-6N) DISTRICT STANDARDS.
   (A)   The R-6N District shall be established in existing neighborhoods.
   (B)   No R-6N District shall contain less than 50 gross acres.
   (C)   Addition to any existing R-6N District may be allowed, provided the
addition meets the district standards of this section.
   (D)   The maximum number of lots used for two-family and multi-family
development within the R-6N District shall not exceed 14% of the total number
of lots in the district. For purposes of this section, each single-family
dwelling, two-family attached and multi-family structure sharing common area
shall be considered as one lot.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 2423, § 2, passed 2-13-1992)
SEC. 9-4-195 MEDICAL-GENERAL COMMERCIAL (MCG) DISTRICT STANDARDS.
   (A)   No development tract which is zoned entirely or in part MCG shall be
less than four net acres. This tract shall be referred to as the “original
development tract.”
   (B)   Lots containing less than four acres may be created by lawful
subdivision, provided any outparcels created by the division shall not have
direct driveway access to any public street. It is the intent of this provision
to require that outparcels of the original development tract be served by
internal traffic circulation in conjunction with the original development
tract.
   (C)   The minimum primary width of any original development tract regulated
under this section shall not be less than 150 feet as measured along the public
street setback line (MBL).
   (D)   The minimum primary width of any outparcel regulated under this
section shall not be less than 120 feet as measured along the public street
setback line (MBL).
   (E)   The secondary lot width of any townhouse type division, of any tract,
lot or outparcel shall not be less than 16 feet at the closest point of the
side lot lines. The division shall be subject to subsection (B) above.
   (F)   The standards of Article G shall apply, provided, however, that the
side and rear yard requirements shall not be less than Bufferyard C. This
provision shall apply only to the original development tract and to the side
and/or rear yard of any outparcel or townhouse type lot located on the
peripheral boundary of the original development tract.
   (G)   The cross-district parking standards set out under Article O, section
9-4-249(A) shall apply.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 94-77, § 1, passed 5-12-1994;
Ord. No. 97-85, §§ 1, 2, passed 8-14-1997)
SEC. 9-4-196 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD) DISTRICT STANDARDS.
   (A)   No PUD District shall contain less than ten gross acres.
   (B)   Addition to any existing PUD District may be allowed, provided the
addition meets or exceeds all other applicable requirements.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-197 WATER SUPPLY WATERSHED (WS) OVERLAY DISTRICT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent; definition.
      (1)   The purpose of the Water Supply Watershed (WS) Overlay District and
the standards set forth under this section are to protect and manage surface
water supply watersheds pursuant to the Water Supply Watershed Act of 1989 and
G.S. 143-214.5, as amended.
      (2)   The standards contained herein shall be in addition to the
standards of the underlying zoning district(s).
      (3)   For purposes of this section a Water Supply Watershed (WS) District
is defined as an overlay zoning district which controls development density and
intensity through minimum lot area and maximum impervious surface coverage
(built-upon area) standards within the regulated water supply watersheds.
   (B)   Regulated area.
      (1)   The provisions of this section shall apply within the areas
designated as a surface water supply watershed by the North Carolina
Environmental Management Commission and as illustrated on the map entitled,
“Watershed Protection Map of Pitt County, North Carolina,” which is
incorporated herein by reference.
      (2)   The regulated area(s) are hereby adopted by reference as overlay
zoning district(s) entitled “Water Supply Watershed (WS) District” and included
on the official zoning map of the city. Where any discrepancy is found to exist
as to the boundaries of the regulated area(s) as illustrated and described by
and between the official zoning map of the City of Greenville and the
“Watershed Protection Map of Pitt County, North Carolina,” the more restrictive
shall apply.
      (3)   The regulated area is hereby further divided into two districts
entitled “Water Supply Watershed - Critical (WS-C)” and “Water Supply Watershed
- Protected (WS-P).” The boundaries of these districts are illustrated and
described on the map entitled “Watershed Protection Map of Pitt County, North
Carolina,” and the official zoning map of the City of Greenville.
      (4)   The provisions of this section shall apply to regulated area(s)
both within the city limits and within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction
of the city as amended.
   (C)   Watershed classification.
      (1)   The Environmental Management Commission of North Carolina has
classified all surface water supply watersheds within the city’s zoning
jurisdiction as WS-IV. The Commission has further divided the regulated area as
described herein into critical and protected areas.
      (2)   Critical areas (WS-C) are defined as the area adjacent to a water
supply intake where the risk associated with pollution is greater than from
remaining portions of the watershed. The critical area, as illustrated on the
Watershed Protection Map, extends one-half mile upstream from the intake
located directly in the river, or to the ridge line of the watershed, whichever
comes first.
      (3)   Protected areas (WS-P) are defined as those areas adjoining and
upstream of the critical area in which protection measures are required. The
boundaries of the protected area extend ten miles upstream and draining to the
intake located directly from the river, or to the ridge line of the watershed,
whichever comes first.
   (D)   Applicability. All new development activities, commenced after the
effective date (July 1, 1993) of this section, requiring a sedimentation and
erosion control plan shall comply with the provisions of this section.
   (E)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Single-family dwelling or addition(s) thereto located on an
individual lot of record established prior to the effective date (July 1, 1993)
of this section.
      (2)   Existing development as defined and regulated in accordance with
Article C of this chapter.
      (3)   Completion of nonconforming projects allowed in accordance with
Article C of this chapter.
      (4)   Additional exclusions as defined in 15A NCAC 02B.0624(3).
   (F)   Certificates of watershed protection compliance.
      (1)   The City Engineer or his or her designated representative is hereby
authorized to issue certificates of watershed protection compliance for
activities subject to this section.
      (2)   A certificate of watershed protection compliance shall be required
for all activities within the regulated area in addition to other zoning
compliance permits or other approvals as may be required. No land disturbing
activity within the regulated area shall begin until a certificate of watershed
protection compliance has been issued in accordance with this section.
      (3)   Subdivision plats and site plans approved after the effective date
(July 1, 1993) of this section shall be subject to the following requirements.
         (a)   The boundaries of the Water Supply Watershed Protected (WS-P)
and Critical (WS-C) Districts shall be indicated on all preliminary and final
subdivision plats and site plans.
         (b)   Where any portion of land proposed for subdivision lies within a
Watershed Protection District a certificate of watershed protection compliance
shall be included on all final subdivision plats. The certificate shall read as
follows:
   Certificate of Approval for Recording
            I certify that the final plat shown hereon complies with the Water
Supply Watershed Overlay District standards in accordance with
Title 9, Chapter 4, Zoning of the Greenville City Code and is approved for
recordation in the Register of Deeds.
            _________________________________           _____________
             City Engineer                        Date
      
            Notice:    This property, or part indicated, is located within a
Public Water Supply Watershed and development restrictions may apply.
         (c)   Where any portion of land proposed for development lies within a
watershed protection district a certificate of watershed protection compliance
signed and sealed by a professional engineer shall be included on all site
development plans. The certificate shall read as follows:
   Certificate of Watershed Protection Compliance
            I, ________, hereby certify that the site development plan shown
hereon complies with the Water Supply Watershed Overlay District standards in
accordance with
Title 9, Chapter 4, Zoning of the Greenville City Code.
            ______________________   ____________
            Signature               Date         
                  SEAL:
   (G)   Enforcement.  The City Engineer or his or her authorized
representative is hereby designated by the City Council as its agent for the
enforcement of these regulations.
   (H)   Development restrictions.
      (1)   Critical area (WS-C). Low density option:
         (a)   Single-family residential development shall not exceed two
dwelling units per gross acre on a project-by-project basis. No single-family
residential lot shall be less than one-half acre or 20,000 square feet in area,
excluding street rights-of-way, except as provided under section
9-4-197(H)(3) for cluster development.
         (b)   All other residential and nonresidential development shall not
exceed 24% built-upon area on a project-by-project basis. For purposes of
calculating built-upon area, total project area shall include total acreage in
the tract on which the project is to be developed.
      (2)   Protected area (WS-P). Low density option:
         (a)   Single-family residential development shall not exceed two
dwelling units per gross acre on a project-by-project basis. No single-family
residential lot shall be less than one-half acre or 20,000 square feet in area,
excluding street rights-of-way, or 15,000 square feet in area, excluding street
rights-of-way, for projects without curb and gutter street construction and an
underground piped storm drainage system, except as provided under section
9-4-197(H)(3) for cluster development and section
9-4-197(H)(4) for high density development.
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided, all other residential and
nonresidential development shall not exceed 24% built-upon area on a project-
by-project basis. For projects without curb and gutter street construction and
an underground piped storm drainage system, development shall not exceed 36%
built-upon area on a project-by-project basis. For purposes of calculating
built-upon area, total project area shall include total acreage in the tract on
which the project is to be developed.
      (3)   Clustering. Clustering of development shall be allowed on a
project-by-project basis subject to all of the following requirements:
         (a)   Overall density of the project shall meet the associated density
or stormwater runoff requirements of the controlling water supply watershed
district classification, WS-C or WS-P;
         (b)   Single-family detached residential developments shall be subject
to the provisions of Article F and Article M of this chapter;
         (c)   Two-family attached (duplex) residential developments shall be
subject to the provisions of Article F of this chapter;
         (d)   Multi-family residential developments shall be subject to the
provisions of Article I of this chapter;
         (e)   Mobile home development shall be subject to the provisions of
Article F and Article H of this chapter;
         (f)   Nonresidential developments shall be subject to the provisions
of Article F of this chapter;
         (g)   Built-upon areas shall be designed and cited to minimize
stormwater runoff impact to the receiving waters and to minimize concentrated
stormwater flow in accordance with best management practices in the opinion of
the City Engineer; and
         (h)   The area by which each lot is reduced below the minimum lot area
requirement of this section shall be reserved as perpetual open space. Such
open space shall be set forth by description and notation upon a final
subdivision map and any development or other land disturbing activity shall be
prohibited within the area. Specifically, the open space area shall be
perpetually maintained in its vegetated or natural state.
      (4)   Protected area (WS-P). High density option: Where new development
exceeds the low density limits provided in section
9-4-197(H)(2), engineered stormwater controls shall be used to control
stormwater runoff from the development site and development shall not exceed
70% built- upon area. High density development shall meet the requirements of
section
9-4-197(O) and 15A NCAC 02B.0624(7).
   (I)   Buffer area required.
      (1)   A vegetative buffer, as measured from top of bank, shall be
required for new development activities along each side of all perennial waters
indicated on the most recent versions of the U.S.G.S. 1:24,000 (7.5 minute)
scale topographical maps, or as determined by local government studies, in
accordance with the following:
            Low density option - Minimum 50 feet.
            High density option - Minimum 100 feet.
      (2)   No new development is allowed in the buffer area except for water
dependent structures, other structures such as flag poles, signs and security
lights which result in only diminutive increase in impervious area and public
projects such as road crossings and greenways where no practicable alternative
exists. These activities should minimize built-upon area, direct runoff away
from the surface waters and maximize the utilization of stormwater best
management practices.
      (3)   Desirable artificial streambank or shoreline stabilization may be
permitted.
   (J)   Prohibited uses. Regardless of the underlying zoning district, the
following uses are prohibited in the Water Supply Watershed - Critical (WS-C)
District.
      (1)   Landfills; and
      (2)   Sites for land application of residual or petroleum contaminated
soils.
   (K)   Variances.
      (1)   Prior to final consideration by the Board of Adjustment as
authorized by Article S of this chapter, all major variance requests shall be
reviewed by the N.C. Environmental Management Commission. For purposes of this
section a “major variance” is defined as:
         (a)   Any variance that constitutes greater than a 10% deviation from
any numerical standard specified by this section; or
         (b)   Any variance to any standard set forth under the high density
development option.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall not be authorized to grant or approve
any major variance which has not first been reviewed by and received approval
of the N.C. Environmental Management Commission.
      (3)   Prior to Board of Adjustment consideration of any variance the
Director of Planning and Development Services or his or her designated
representative shall notify in writing each local government having
jurisdiction within the subject watershed and each local government or other
entity using the watershed for water consumption, including private water
corporations and the like. The notice shall contain a copy of the complete
application as submitted, including a description of the variance and any
required map. The local government(s) and/or other entities may submit written
comments for consideration by the Board of Adjustment.
      (4)   The findings and recommendation of the N.C. Environmental
Management Commission and any written comments of the local government(s)
having jurisdiction within the subject watershed shall be made a part of the
findings of fact and record of the Board of Adjustment. Such findings,
recommendations and written comments and other competent evidence as may be
presented shall be considered by the Board of Adjustment in accordance with
law.
      (5)   If an application calls for the granting of a major variance, and
if the Board of Adjustment decides in favor of granting the variance, the Board
shall prepare a preliminary record of the hearing. The preliminary record of
the hearing shall include: the variance application; the hearing notices; the
evidence presented; motions, offers of proof, objections to evidence, and
rulings on them; proposed findings and exceptions; and the proposed decision,
including all conditions proposed to be added to the permit. The preliminary
record shall be sent to the Environmental Management Commission for its review
as follows:
         (a)   If the Commission concludes from the preliminary record that the
variance qualifies as a major variance and that both the property owner can
secure no reasonable return from, nor make any practical use of the property
unless the proposed variance is granted; and the variance, if granted, will not
result in a serious threat to the water supply; then the Commission shall
approve the variance as proposed or approve the proposed variance with
conditions and stipulations. The Commission shall prepare a commission decision
and send it to the Board of Adjustment. If the Commission approves the variance
as proposed, the Board shall prepare a final decision granting the proposed
variance. If the Commission approves the variance with conditions and
stipulations, the Board shall prepare a final decision, including such
conditions and stipulations, granting the proposed variance.
         (b)   If the Commission concludes from the preliminary record that the
variance qualifies as a major variance and that either: the property owner can
secure a reasonable return from or make a practical use of the property without
the variance, or the variance, if granted, will result in a serious threat to
the water supply, then the Commission shall deny approval of the variance as
proposed. The Commission shall prepare a Commission decision and send it to the
Board of Adjustment. The Board shall prepare a final decision denying the
variance as proposed.
   (L)   Amendment. Amendment to the Water Supply Watershed Overlay District
regulations as contained herein shall be filed with the N.C. Division of
Environmental Management and the N.C. Division of Community Assistance. No
amendment shall become effective until the city has received approval from the
state as provided by law and the applicable water supply watershed protection
rules.
   (M)   Record of amendments and variances.
      (1)   Amendments. The Director of Planning and Development Services or
his or her designated representative shall keep a record of amendments to this
section and provide copies of all amendments upon adoption to the Supervisor of
the Classification and Standards Group, Water Quality Section, Division of
Environmental Management, the N.C. Division of Environmental Health, and the
N.C. Division of Community Assistance.
      (2)   Variances. The Director of Planning and Development Services or his
or her designated representative shall keep a record of all variances from this
section. This record shall be submitted to the Supervisor of the Classification
and Standards Group, Water Quality Section, Division of Environmental
Management on or before January 1 of each year and shall provide a description
of each project receiving a variance and the reasons for granting the variance.
   (N)   Compliance with subdivision standards. All development regulated in
accordance with this section shall be subject to the requirements, conditions
and restrictions of the subdivision regulations whether or not the subject
tract is actually divided for the purpose of transferring title.
   (O)   Stormwater management requirements.
      (1)   All stormwater management techniques and improvements shall be in
accordance with best management practices (BMPs). For purposes of this section,
“best management practices (BMPs)” are defined as structural or nonstructural
management-based practice used singularly or in combination to reduce nonpoint
source inputs to receiving waters in order to achieve water quality protection
goals.
      (2)   Stormwater controls shall be reviewed, regulated and improved
pursuant to
Title 9, Chapter 9, Stormwater Management and Control, of the Greenville City
Code.
(Ord. No. 2640, § 1, 6-10-93; Ord. No. 94-41, §§ 1–3, passed 3-10-1994; Ord.
No. 97-15, §§ 1–7, passed 2-13-1997; Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006;
Ord. No. 18-055 §§ 1-7, passed 10-11-2018; Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 9-4-198 HISTORIC DISTRICT (HD) OVERLAY DISTRICT STANDARDS.
   The requirements, conditions and restrictions of
Title 9, Chapter 7, of the City Code entitled “Historic Preservation
Commission” shall apply.
(Ord. No. 94-22, § 2, passed 2-10-1994)
SEC. 9-4-199 CONSERVATION AREA (CA) OVERLAY DISTRICT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent; definition.
      (1)   The purposes of the Conservation Area (CA) Overlay District and
requirements set forth under this section are: to provide for permanent open
space and desirable buffers between proposed uses and incompatible adjacent
land uses, environmentally sensitive areas or hazardous areas in excess of
minimum standards; and to provide a method and means by which the open space
and increased buffer areas may be utilized to fulfill zoning requirements
applicable to individual lot development.
       (2)   A Conservation Area (CA) Overlay District is defined as an overlay
zoning district adopted in conjunction with an underlying common general
purpose district, as listed under Article D, Part 2, sections
9-4-46 through
9-4-73, wherein the zoning rights, standards, restrictions and requirements as
set forth herein for the common general purpose district shall extend to the CA
District zoned area of a lot of record while prohibiting the encroachment of
buildings, structures, parking, drives and other impervious areas or other
residential and/or nonresidential uses or activities including storage, stock-
in-trade display and delivery of service, inconsistent with this section,
within the CA District zoned portion of the lot.
   (B)   Standards.
      (1)   Initiation of a petition for a Conservation Area (CA) Overlay
District zoning map amendment shall be restricted to the legal owner of record,
both at the time of initial application and City Council final action, or the
authorized agent of the owner at such times. No CA Overlay District shall be
established or amended without first being submitted to the Planning and Zoning
Commission for review and recommendation in accordance with original submission
requirements.
      (2)   All Conservation Area (CA) Overlay Districts shall be delineated
upon the official zoning map as both the underlying common general purpose
district and CA Overlay District. The general purpose district title shall be
followed by “-CA” in all areas zoned Conservation Area (CA) Overlay.
      (3)   At the time of zoning consideration of any CA Overlay District, the
area within the proposed CA Overlay District shall be undeveloped and vacant
and shall not contain any principal and/or accessory buildings, structures or
parking or be subject to any vested right to continue any activity or site
development inconsistent with this section.
      (4)   No CA Overlay District zoned area of any lot, either at the time of
initial zoning or as a result of future zoning action or subdivision, shall be
less than 100 feet at its narrowest dimension.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided, no portion of any CA Overlay District
shall be used as a building site. No buildings, structures, parking or other
impervious areas shall be allowed to encroach into any CA Overlay District, and
no portion of any CA Overlay District shall be used for any temporary and/or
permanent residential or nonresidential purpose including storage and delivery
of service.
      (6)   Public streets and sidewalks, public utility and other public
infrastructure improvements and/or structures may be constructed within a CA
Overlay District.
      (7)   Stormwater detention ponds and drainage improvements may be
constructed within a CA Overlay District.
      (8)   Private streets and sidewalks, driveways and general (public/
customer) pedestrian access walkways may encroach into any CA Overlay District
subject to compliance with all the following requirements:
         (a)   Shall be designed to provide direct access to and from adjacent
public streets, designated common property, public access easements and lot
lines; and
         (b)   No temporary or permanent parking area or space(s) shall be
allowed within any CA Overlay District.
      (9)   Required bufferyard (peripheral and street yard) setbacks in
accordance with Article G, street right-of-way (front yard) setbacks and
minimum yard areas in accordance with Article F, may be located in any CA
Overlay District.
      (10)   Required or optional vegetation materials may be qualified and/or
planted and berms, fences and other landscape features approved by the Director
of Planning and Development Services, or the Director’s authorized
representative, may be allowed within any CA Overlay District.
      (11)   All portions of a lot located within a CA Overlay District shall
be utilized to count toward total lot area, lot width and lot frontage for
purposes of determining allowable density, minimum lot area, minimum open
space, maximum lot coverage, minimum vegetation, minimum recreation area and
other requirements or restrictions related to lot area or dimension as may
apply in accordance with the underlying general purposes district or other
applicable standards.
      (12)   Public greenway and public recreational improvements shall be
allowed in any CA Overlay District.
      (13)   Except as further provided, no property shall be subdivided or
zoned CA Overlay which would result in a lot that does not contain an adequate
building site. No lot or parcel shall be located completely within a CA Overlay
District unless the lot or parcel is dedicated or deeded to the public or
unless the lot or parcel is dedicated as common area open space as part of a
contiguous townhouse, condominium or other common property development as shown
upon a final plat recorded pursuant to the subdivision regulations.
      (14)   When property that contains any area zoned CA Overlay District is
proposed to be subdivided, the preliminary subdivision plat and final
subdivision plat shall delineate the CA Overlay District area as “conservation
area” and shall note restrictions applicable to such area as provided herein.
Areas that are indicated on a final plat as “conservation area” pursuant to
this section shall not constitute a public dedication of lands except as
specifically noted by description, and such areas may be reconfigured pursuant
to zoning amendment of the CA Overlay District boundary affecting the lot as
may be approved by City Council.
      (15)   Prior to the issuance of a building permit for development on a
lot that contains any area zoned CA Overlay District, or prior to the issuance
of any zoning compliance permits or approvals to conduct any use of property in
cases where a building permit is not required, a final subdivision plat of the
lot shall be recorded pursuant to the subdivision regulations. The plat shall
delineate the CA Overlay District area as “conservation area” and shall note
restrictions applicable to that area as provided herein. Areas that are
indicated on a final plat as “conservation area” pursuant to this section shall
not constitute a public dedication of lands except as specifically noted by
description, and the areas may be reconfigured pursuant to zoning amendment of
the CA Overlay District boundary affecting the lot as may be approved by City
Council.
(Ord. No. 03-50, § 2, passed 6-12-2003; Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006;
Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 9-4-200 R-6A RESTRICTED RESIDENTIAL USE (RU) OVERLAY DISTRICT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent; definition.
      (1)   The purpose of the R-6A Restricted Residential Use (RU) Overlay
District and requirements set forth under this section are:
         (a)   To provide a residential development option designed to
encourage single-family and/or two-family attached (duplex) development; and
         (b)   To prohibit multi-family development within the underlying R-6A
District included within the overlay.
      (2)   An R-6A Restricted Residential use (RU) Overlay District is defined
as an overlay zoning district adopted in conjunction with an underlying R-6A
(residential) general purpose district as listed under Article D, Part 2,
section
9-4-51.1 wherein the zoning rights, standards, restrictions and requirements as
set forth for the common general purpose district shall extend to the RU
Overlay District zoned area in accordance with subsection (B) below.
   (B)   Standards.
      (1)   Initiation of a petition for a R-6A Restricted Residential use (RU)
Overlay District zoning map amendment shall be restricted to the legal owner of
record, both at the time of initial application and City Council final action,
or the authorized agent of the owner at such times.
      (2)   All R-6A Restricted Residential use (RU) Overlay Districts shall be
delineated upon the official zoning map as both the underlying R-6A
(residential) general purpose district and RU Overlay District. The R-6A
general purpose district title shall be followed by “-RU” in all areas zoned
Restricted Residential use (RU) Overlay.
      (3)   The zoning rights, standards, restrictions and requirements of the
R-6A underlying general purpose district shall extend to the R-6A-RU Overlay
District, except as provided herein.
      (4)   No portion of a multi-family development shall be permitted within
any R-6A-RU Overlay District and no portion of any area zoned R-6A-RU Overlay
District shall count toward net lot area for purposes of multi-family density
allowance or calculation on any lot located partially or totally outside a R-
6A-RU Overlay District.
      (5)   Except as further provided, no R-6A-RU Overlay District shall
contain less than five acres of net land area at the time of initial zoning or
as a result of future zoning actions. Addition to any existing R-6A-RU Overlay
District may be allowed provided the addition meets the district standards of
this section. The dedication of public street rights-of-way, private street
easements, public park lands and the like after the time of initial zoning,
which results in the overlay district area being reduced below the initial five
acre net area minimum, shall be allowed.
(Ord. No. 04-67, § 1, passed 6-1-2004)
SEC. 9-4-200.1 URBAN CORE (UC) OVERLAY DISTRICT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent; definition; designated area.
      (1)   Purpose and intent. The purpose and intent of the Urban Core (UC)
Overlay District and requirements set forth under this section is to allow
modification of specific site development standards of the underlying zoning
district(s) which are designed to facilitate development and redevelopment of
in-fill sites in the designated area specified under subsection (3) below.
      (2)   Definition. An Urban Core (UC) Overlay District is defined as an
overlay zoning district adopted in conjunction with an OR, and/or CDF
underlying general purpose district as listed under Article D, Part 2, sections
9-4-62 and
9-4-66 wherein the zoning rights, standards, restrictions and requirements as
set forth for the common general purpose district shall extend to the Urban
Core (UC) Overlay District zoned area in accordance with subsection (B) below.
      (3)   Designated area. All Urban Core (UC) Overlay District(s) shall be
restricted to the land area located within the following boundary: south of
Tenth Street, east of the CSXT Railroad, north of Fourteenth Street, west of
Green Mill Run and ECU Easement (tax parcel 73545, DB 2215 - PG 597 (as
existing on March 4, 2010. No Urban Core (UC) Overlay District shall be located
outside of the designated area described by this subsection. An Urban Core (UC)
Overlay District shall be established within the designated area upon City
Council adoption of an individual zoning ordinance which defines the boundary
of the specific Urban Core (UC) Overlay District located within the designated
area boundary.
   (B)   Standards.
      (1)   Initiation of a petition for an Urban Core (UC) Overlay District
zoning map amendment shall be made in accordance with section
9-4-331.
      (2)   If any portion of a lot, parcel or tract is zoned as Urban Core
(UC) Overlay the entire lot, parcel or tract shall be included in the Urban
Core (UC) Overlay.
      (3)   All Urban Core (UC) Overlay Districts shall be delineated upon the
official zoning map as both the underlying general purpose district and UC
Overlay District. The general purpose district title shall be followed by “-UC”
in all areas zoned Urban Core (UC) Overlay District.
      (4)   The zoning rights, standards, restrictions and requirements of the
underlying general purpose district shall extend to the Urban Core (UC) Overlay
District, except as provided herein.
      (5)   Within any Urban Core (UC) Overlay District multi-family
development, land use intensity multi-family (LUI) development rating 50, land
use intensity dormitory (LUI) development rating 67, and dormitory development,
as listed under
Article D and
Appendix A table of permitted uses, shall be subject to modified standards as
listed under subsection (6) below, unless otherwise provided. All other
standards, requirements and conditions of the underlying general purpose
district not included under and modified by subsection (6) shall continue to
apply.
      (6)   Modified standards. The following standards specified in this
subsection are hereby adopted as substitute minimum requirements within the
Urban Core (UC) Overlay District for the uses listed under subsection (5)
above.
         (a)   Principal and accessory structure public street right-of-way
setback per section
9-4-145(B)(1): The minimum setback may be reduced at the option of the owner to
not less than five feet.
         (b)   Principal and accessory structure private street easement
setback per section
9-4-145(B)(2): The minimum setback may be reduced at the option of the owner to
not less than five feet.
         (c)   Principal and accessory structure public street right-of-way and
private street easement setback per section
9-4-181(A): The minimum setback may be reduced at the option of the owner to
not less than five feet.
         (d)   Bufferyard A per section
9-4-119(A): The applicable six-foot and/or ten- foot bufferyard width may be
reduced at the option of the owner to not less than five feet regardless of lot
size. Bufferyard with modification shall not exempt or reduce any vegetation
requirement applicable to any Bufferyard A, as required prior to the
application of this subsection.
         (e)   Parking space to dwelling structure separation per section
9-4-251(B)(9): The minimum separation requirement may be reduced at the option
of the owner to not less than five feet.
(Ord. No. 10-19, § 2, 3-4-2010; Ord. 16-010, § 4, passed 2-11-2016)
SEC. 9-4-200.2 UNIVERSITY NEIGHBORHOOD REVITALIZATION INITIATIVE (UNRI) OVERLAY
DISTRICT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent; definition; designated area.
      (1)   Purpose and intent. The purpose and intent of the University
Neighborhood Revitalization Initiative (UNRI) Overlay District and requirements
set forth under this section are:
         (a)   To recognize that the university neighborhood is an established
city neighborhood with a unique location between East Carolina University, the
Tar River, and the Downtown Commercial District;
         (b)   To recognize that the university neighborhood has traditionally
provided off-campus housing opportunities to students of East Carolina
University and that a significant percentage of the dwellings located within
the university neighborhood are renter occupied;
         (c)   To establish appropriate standards and safeguards that provide
for compatibility among university neighborhood properties; and
         (d)   To facilitate the sustainability, preservation, restoration, and
revitalization of the university neighborhood in order to promote the safety
and the general welfare of the community.
      (2)   Definition. A University Neighborhood Revitalization Initiative
(UNRI) Overlay District is defined as an overlay zoning district adopted in
conjunction with an underlying general purpose zoning district, as listed in
sections
9-4-46 through
9-4-72, wherein the zoning rights, standards, restrictions and requirements as
set forth for the underlying general purpose zoning district shall extend to
the University Neighborhood Revitalization Initiative (UNRI) Overlay District
zoned area in accordance with subsection (B) below.
      (3)   Designated area. All University Neighborhood Revitalization
Initiative (UNRI) Overlay District(s) shall be restricted to the land area
located within the following boundary: bounded on the north by the Tar River,
on the east by Elm Street, extended to the Tar River, on the south by E. 5th
Street, and on the west by Reade Street, extended to the Tar River. No
University Neighborhood Revitalization Initiative (UNRI) Overlay District shall
be located outside of the designated area described by this subsection. A
University Neighborhood Revitalization Initiative (UNRI) Overlay District shall
be established within the designated area upon City Council adoption of a
zoning ordinance which defines the boundary of the specific University
Neighborhood Revitalization Initiative (UNRI) Overlay District located within
the designated area boundary.
   (B)   Standards.
      (1)   A petition for a University Neighborhood Revitalization Initiative
(UNRI) Overlay District zoning map amendment may be initiated in accordance
with section
9-4-331.
      (2)   All University Neighborhood Revitalization Initiative (UNRI)
Overlay Districts shall be delineated upon the official zoning map as both the
underlying general purpose zoning district and the University Neighborhood
Revitalization Initiative (UNRI) Overlay District. The general purpose zoning
district title shall be followed by University Neighborhood Revitalization
Initiative “-UNRI” in all areas zoned University Neighborhood Revitalization
Initiative (UNRI) Overlay District.
      (3)   The zoning rights, standards, restrictions and requirements of the
underlying general purpose zoning district shall extend to the University
Neighborhood Revitalization Initiative (UNRI) Overlay District, except as
modified by a provision of this chapter specifically made applicable to the
University Neighborhood Revitalization Initiative (UNRI) Overlay District.
(Ord. No. 12-045, § 2, passed 10-11-2012; Ord. No. 14-020, passed 4-10-2014)
SEC. 9-4-200.3 HIGHWAY SIGN OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Highway sign overlay district established. The highway sign overlay
district is hereby established as a district which overlays existing zoning
districts. The boundaries of the highway sign overlay district are as shown on
the official zoning map, which are the same as shown on the map entitled
"Highway Sign Overlay District," prepared by the Planning and Development
Services Department of the City of Greenville.
   (B)   Statement of intent. It is the intent of this section to provide
greater flexibility for signs in the area of the overlay and specifically near
interstate and future interstate highways.
   (C)   Standards. The following standards shall apply to signs in the
overlay.
      (1)   When located in a commercial or industrial zoning district, heights
of flagpoles can be a maximum of 130 feet and the maximum size of the flag
cannot exceed 25 feet by 40 feet and only one per site is permitted. Flagpole
plans must have an engineer's seal for stress load and wind shear.
      (2)   A vertical flag pole shall be set back from all property boundaries
a distance of at least one foot for each foot by which the pole in question
exceeds 70 feet from finished grade.
      (3)   In all other respects signs shall follow the requirements of
Article N of
Title 9, Chapter 4 of the City of Greenville's code of ordinances.
(Ord. No. 20-016, § 1, passed 3-12-2020)
SEC. 9-4-200.4 MUI MIXED USE INSTITUTIONAL DISTRICT STANDARDS.
   (A)   General district standards.
      (1)   Single entity.
         (a)   Each Mixed Use Institutional (MUI) district must be under the
control of a single entity and have a controlling governmental interest or be a
hospital, college or university.
         (b)   Development of properties within the MUI may be accomplished or
carried out by either the single entity or in collaboration with a private
development partner.
      (2)   MUI developments may consist of one, or several, lots. They may
also occur in phases.
      (3)   District dimensional standards.
         (a)   Lot area (net). All uses: none.
         (b)   Lot width (at the MBL). All uses: none.
         (c)   Public street setback: 0 feet minimum.
         (d)   Side setback: 0 feet minimum.
         (e)   Rear setback: 0 feet minimum.
         (f)   Height: 5 stories or 70 feet
      (4)   District density standards.
         (a)   Minimum habitable (mechanically conditioned) floor area per
unit:
            1.   One bedroom unit: 400 square feet.
            2.   Two or more bedroom unit: 500 square feet.
         (b)   Minimum parking: One space per unit.
      (5)   Multiple principal uses may be allowed on a single lot within an
MUI.
      (6)   Residential uses may not exceed 25% of the total building square
footage of an MUI. In the event of a phased development, this ratio will be
enforced for each specific phase.
      (7)   Commercial uses may not exceed 30% of the total non-residential
building square footage in an MUI district. In the event of a phased
development, this ratio will be enforced for each specific phase.
      (8)   The ground floor of any vertically mixed use space must be
designated for use by an active use ground floor use (i.e., no storage or
residences).
      (9)   Initial bufferyard requirements shall be based on the most
restrictive of anticipated uses and the requirement shall apply to all
subsequent uses absent any change in zoning for the development.
      (10)   In the case of a vertically mixed use structure, in no event shall
non-residential space be located above residential space.
      (11)   Any development phase within an MUI district shall provide 20%
open space for either active or passive use. In the context of this subsection,
open space shall mean all space that is not occupied by a building footprint.
Uses such as outdoor amphitheater or other publicly accessible outdoor
recreation shall also count towards satisfaction of this requirement.
   (B)   Application requirements.
      (1)   Any development in an MUI district must submit a Master Plan to the
City of Greenville Technical Review Committee. All submissions must adhere to
the Technical Review Committee requirements.
      (2)   Each application must also include the following.
         (a)   The specific standards intended to be modified as part of the
approval process. If a standard is not listed as being modified, then the
standard is considered applicable and the plan is required to comply. However,
subsequent requests for alternative compliance and variances may still be
submitted.
         (b)   The proposed maximum number of dwelling units.
         (c)   The proposed maximum square footage of nonresidential floor
area.
         (d)   A general description of how the MUI district conforms with the
Comprehensive Plan.
         (e)   In the event that a development is to occur in phases, then a
phasing plan must be provided. Said phasing plan will also include an
improvement schedule that can defer phase specific improvements by no more than
one phase from when the associated phase is completed. I.e., if a multi-use
path or outdoor amphitheater is approved in phase 1, it shall be completely
installed prior to the completion of phase 2. All improvements shown for the
final phase of a development must be completed prior to the issuance of a
Certificate of Occupancy for any structure in the final phase.
         (f)   An illustrative 3-dimensional model or digital rendering that
shows building elevations, location of streets and prominent site features. The
3-dimensional model must illustrate the potential massing and scale of the
proposed development, but will not be regulatory.
   (C)   Master plan required. In an MUI district, standards of an MUI Master
Plan may be modified through approval by the Director of Planning and
Development Services or his/her designee. This approval will be granted as part
of the Technical Review Committee process. An MUI Master Plan allows
modifications to the General District Standards or other provisions of
Title 9, Chapter 4  in the following ways:
      (1)   Remote Parking. The MUI may utilize remote parking that is a
distance not in excess of 800 feet from the associated principal use site. Said
remote parking must be on land that is also owned by the single entity
controlling the principal use site. All other provisions of the subsection and
article shall apply. This provision shall not account for more than 70% of the
total required parking for the site or any one specific phase.
         (a)   Such remote parking facility shall be in accordance with the
applicable provisions of Article O.
         (b)   All off-street parking areas designed for three or more spaces
shall be in accordance with Article O.
         (c)   The remote parking facility shall not be utilized or occupied by
any other use or for any purpose other than as parking for the associated
principal use.
         (d)   The remote parking facility shall be located within the MUI
district or within a district which allows principal use parking lots.
      (2)   Article G. Bufferyard Setbacks: Bufferyard setbacks may be waived
in exchange for more robust internal pedestrian circulation standards. Primary
pedestrian accommodations must provide internal circulation along a minimum 14'
wide multi-use path. Said path must provide through and cross access to
adjacent parcels and rights-of-way. This area must be shown on the site plan
that is provided to the Technical Review Committee.
      (3)   General District Standards(2): Building height may exceed five
stories or 70 feet when either the entire building, or the portion of such
building as may be in excess of 70 feet, is stepped back one foot for every
foot in excess of the 70 foot height allowance from the property line.
      (4)   General District Standards (10): The overall open space requirement
may be reduced to 15% in exchange for public access to outdoor amenities.
   (D)   Master plan amendments.
      (1)   The Director of Planning and Development Services or his/her
designee may administratively approve amendments to a submitted MUI Master Plan
without resubmission to the Technical Review Committee.
      (2)   Allowable amendments.
         (a)   An increase or decrease to the approved nonresidential square
footage, not to exceed 10% of the original approval or the 25% development
maximum.
         (b)   A transfer of nonresidential floor area or residential dwelling
units, from one area to another, not to exceed a 20% maximum for each standard.
         (c)   Minor adjustments in location of building, parking, recreation
or sporting facilities and open space areas. A minor adjustment shall be a
modification in orientation or distance to a property line; however, the
adjustment shall not exceed 100 feet in distance from the approved location,
and shall not be located any closer than 50 feet to the boundary of the MUI
district. However, where a building or parking area is shown on the approved
Master Plan within 50 feet of a property line, the building or parking area
adjustment may not be located any closer to the property line than as shown on
the approved Master Plan. An adjustment to the location of transit facilities
is permitted, provided the adjustment occurs prior to the recordation of the
transit easement.
         (d)   An exchange of open space area, provided the exchanged areas are
of like acreage, value and utility.
         (e)   A relocation of access points, driveways or sidewalks either
within or outside of the public right-of-way with the concurrence of the
Engineering Department (and where applicable the NCDOT).
         (f)   A relocation of a fence, wall, sign or utility. Fences or walls
required for bufferyards may not be removed or relocated to an area that
conflicts with the buffering requirement.
         (g)   Any requirement associated with an allowable amendment must be
shown on the Master Plan.
(Ord. No. 20-020, § 3, passed 5-18-2020; Ord. No. 23-058, § 1, passed 8-10-
2023)
SEC. 9-4-200.10 RECREATIONAL/SPORT HUNTING OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Statement of intent. The recreational/sport hunting district is an
overlay district designed to provide sportsmen and sportswomen with an area in
which hunting by properly licensed persons during established hunting seasons
is allowed.
   (B)   Hunting area. Hunting may occur in the following area:
      (1)   Sunny Side area. The area, as shown on the official zoning map of
the city, encompassing approximately 158 acres and more specifically delineated
by the map prepared by the City of Greenville Planning and Development Services
Department entitled “Sunny Side Hunting Overlay".
      (2)   This section does not regulate the discharge of firearms, bow and
arrows, crossbows or any other type of weapon within any hunting area(s). City
Code provisions regulating discharge of firearms or other weapons within City
limits apply to the above hunting area(s). See Title 12, Chapter 1 of the City
Code, specifically Section
12-1-3 entitled "Discharge of Firearms and other Weapons." and Section
12-1-20 entitled "Bows and Arrows and Crossbows." and any future amendments to
these sections. See G.S. 160A-189.
   (C)   In no event shall any of the above areas be used as a controlled
hunting preserve as defined in state law. See G.S. 113-273 In addition, the
areas shall not be enclosed and stocked with game.
(Ord. No. 20-035, § 1, passed 6-15-2020)
ARTICLE M. RESIDENTIAL CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT
SEC. 9-4-201 PURPOSE AND INTENT; DEFINITION.
   (A)   The purpose of residential cluster development is to provide an
alternative development option that will:
      (1)   Promote more efficient use of land resources than is otherwise
possible under conventional subdivision regulations;
      (2)   Reduce the per unit site development costs of dwellings by
concentrating residential units on a portion of the site without increasing the
overall net density above that which would normally be allowed pursuant to
Article F;
      (3)   Preserve the natural character of the site;
      (4)   Preserve farm land and scenic views;
      (5)   Provide for desirable and usable open space, tree cover, and the
preservation of environmentally sensitive areas; and
      (6)   Provide variety in residential buildings and properties and provide
design flexibility that can relate the location of units to unique site
conditions.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, a “residential cluster development” is
defined as:
      (1)   A development design wherein conventional zoning standards are
relaxed to permit modifications in lot area, lot width, lot frontage, lot
coverage, and required yards, and to save infrastructure development cost,
environmental damage, energy use and land resources by concentrating dwellings
in specific areas of the site without increasing the net density above that
which would normally be allowed pursuant to Article F;
      (2)   Such development shall contain detached single-family dwellings
only; and
      (3)   Such development shall provide a program for the provision,
operation and maintenance of such areas, facilities and improvements as shall
be required for the perpetual common use by the occupants of the development.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 2409, § 1, passed 1-9-1992;
Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 9-4-202 AREA; PERMITTED DISTRICTS, EXEMPTION; STREET ACCESS; OPEN SPACE
(S); RELATIONSHIP TO GREENWAY PLAN; DENSITY; DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Residential cluster developments shall contain not less than ten net
acres. For purposes of this section, “net acres” shall be the total area of all
lots and common area(s) exclusive of public street rights-of-way or private
street easements. Addition to any existing residential cluster development may
be allowed provided the addition meets or exceeds all other applicable
requirements.
   (B)   Subject to subsection (A) above, a residential cluster development may
as an option be allowed within any RA-20, R-9S, R-9, R-6S, R-6, R-6A, MRS or MR
Zoning District. The development shall be exempt from the conventional zoning
standards relative to lot area, lot width, lot frontage, lot coverage, and
required yards normally applicable to such districts, provided the development
complies with the minimum standards set forth under this section.
   (C)   Dwelling units within a residential cluster development may not be
constructed on lots fronting private streets.
   (D)   A residential cluster development shall provide open space(s) subject
to all of the following requirements:
      (1)   Such open space shall be greater or equal in area to the total
amount of area by which each lot was reduced below the minimum lot size
requirement of the prevailing zoning district, or as provided under subsection
(D)(2) below, whichever is greater;
      (2)   Residential cluster developments shall reserve not less than 15% of
the gross acreage as common open space;
      (3)   The area shall not be used as a building site. For purposes of this
section, picnic areas or shelters, ball fields, walking or jogging trails, boat
ramps and docks or other similar recreational facilities may be allowed;
      (4)   The area shall not be devoted to any public street right-of-way or
private street easement, private driveway or parking area;
      (5)   The area shall be left in its natural or undisturbed state if
wooded at the time of development, except for the cutting of trails for walking
or jogging or, if not wooded at the time of development, is improved for the
uses listed under subsection (D)(3) above, or is properly vegetated and
landscaped with the objectives of creating a wooded area or other area that is
consistent with the objective set forth in subsection (D)(6) below;
      (6)   The area shall be capable of being used and enjoyed for purposes of
informal and unstructured recreation and relaxation or for horticulture if not
devoted to other allowable uses in this subsection;
      (7)   The area shall be legally and practically accessible to the
residents of the development, or to the public if so dedicated;
      (8)   A minimum of one-half of the required open space shall be contained
in one continuous undivided part;
      (9)   Not more than 25% of the required open space shall lie within any
floodway zone;
      (10)   Not more than 25% of the required open space may be devoted to
allowable improvements as set forth in subsection (D)(3) above;
      (11)   The area shall be perpetually owned and maintained for the
purposes of this article by a homeowners’ association or, at the option of the
city, dedicated or deeded to the public;
      (12)   The location and arrangement of any open space(s) shall be subject
to Planning and Zoning Commission approval; and
      (13)   The owner shall, pursuant to the subdivision regulations, cause a
final subdivision plat to be recorded in the Pitt County Register of Deeds
which clearly describes the open space(s) and conditions thereof, prior to the
issuance of any building permit(s).
   (E)   If any portion of the area proposed for a residential cluster
development lies within an area designated in the officially adopted Greenway
Master Plan as a greenway corridor, the area so designated shall be included as
part of the area set aside to satisfy the open space requirements of this
section. The area within the greenway corridor shall be dedicated and/or
reserved to the public at the option of the city.
   (F)   Maximum density requirements.
      (1)   Residential density shall not exceed that which would normally be
permitted under single-family standards within the prevailing zoning district
on a net area basis.
      (2)   Public street rights-of-way and private street easements shall not
be included or count towards the total net area for purposes of calculating
allowable density.
      (3)   Area dedicated or deeded to the city pursuant to subsection (E)
above shall count towards net area for purposes of density calculation.
   (G)   Minimum dimensional standards.
      (1)   Lot area: Not less than 60% of the minimum lot area which would
normally be required under the single-family standards of the prevailing zoning
district.
      (2)   Lot width: No minimum width requirement at the street setback line
(MBL); however, all lots shall contain a building site of like design and area
to other lots within the cluster subdivision.
      (3)   Lot frontage: 40 feet, except on the radius of a cul-de-sac where
the distance may be reduced to 20 feet.
      (4)   Public or private street setback: No principal or accessory
structure shall be closer than 15 feet to a public street right-of-way or
private street easement or as further provided herein.
      (5)   Side yard setback: Shall be subject to section
9-4-203 (zero lot line) or not less than 12 feet, provided however, that no
structure shall be located on more than one side lot line. Dwellings which do
not utilize the provisions of section
9-4-203 (zero lot line) and are not located adjacent to a lot line section
subject to section
9-4-203 shall maintain a minimum side setback of not less than six feet.
      (6)   Rear yard setback: Shall be subject to section
9-4-203 (zero lot line) or not less than 12 feet.
      (7)   Building separations: No portion of any principal structure shall
be located less than 12 feet from any other principal structure or less than
ten feet from any accessory structure as measured to the closest point.
      (8)   Periphery boundary setback: Except as further provided no principal
or accessory structure shall be located less than 25 feet from the peripheral
boundaries of the residential cluster development.
      (9)   Transition area setback:
         (a)   Where a residential cluster development adjoins or borders an
existing single-family zoning district or other predominantly single-family
development sharing common frontage on the same or opposite side of a public or
private street, the minimum right-of-way and/or easement setback requirement of
the single-family zone or development shall be utilized for the entire opposite
frontage and 300 feet from the common border.
         (b)   For purposes of this subsection, “other predominantly single-
family development” shall be that area within 100 feet of the external boundary
of the residential cluster development in which 50% or more of the conforming
land uses are detached single-family residential.
      (10)   Maximum height: 35 feet.g
      (11)   Detached accessory structure requirements:
         (a)   Shall not be located within any front yard setback;
         (b)   Shall not be located within ten feet of any other principal
structure or within five feet of any other accessory structure;
         (c)   Shall not cover more than 20% of any side or rear yard; and
         (d)   The side or rear yard requirement for detached accessory
structures shall be subject to the provisions of section
9-4-203 (zero lot line) or not less than five feet.
      (12)   Satellite dish antennae and swimming pools shall comply with the
applicable provisions of Article F.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 2409, § 1, passed 1-9-1992;
Ord. No. 2467, § 1, passed 6-8-1992; Ord. No. 94-59, § 1, passed 4-14-1994;
Ord. No. 95-29, § 8, passed 3-9-1995; Ord. No. 95-78, § 1, passed 8-10-1995;
Ord. No. 96-122, § 1, passed 12-2-1996; Ord. No. 97-85, §§ 1, 2, passed 8-14-
1997; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 9-4-203 ZERO SIDE AND/OR REAR YARD SETBACKS.
   A zero side and/or rear yard setback as permitted herein, may be permitted,
subject to the following provisions:
   (A)   Any wall, constructed on the side or rear lot line shall be a solid
doorless and windowless wall. The wall shall contain no electrical, mechanical,
heating, air conditioning or other fixtures that project beyond the wall. If
there is an offset of the wall from the lot line, the offset shall be subject
to the applicable provisions of §
9-4-202(G)(5) and (6). Roof eaves may encroach two feet into the adjoining lot;
   (B)   A five-foot maintenance and access easement with a maximum eave
encroachment easement of two feet within the maintenance easement shall be
established on the adjoining lot and shall assure ready access to the lot line
wall at reasonable periods of the day for normal maintenance; and
   (C)   Where zero side or rear yard setbacks are proposed, the buildable area
for each lot shall be indicated on the preliminary and final subdivision plat.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 2409, § 1, passed 1-9-1992)
SEC. 9-4-204 PRIVATE STREETS.
   No new private streets are allowed after August 14, 2014.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 2409, § 1, passed 1-9-1992;
Ord. No. 14-049, § 9, passed 8-14-2014)
SEC. 9-4-205 COMPLIANCE WITH SUBDIVISION STANDARDS.
   All development regulated in accordance with this article shall be subject
to the requirements, conditions and restrictions of the subdivision
regulations.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 2409, § 1, passed 1-9-1992)
ARTICLE M1. VERTICAL MIXED-USE DEVELOPMENT
SEC. 9-4-206 PURPOSE, INTENT AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this article to create mixed-use
activity places to live, work, play, and shop in a walkable pattern that is
envisioned in Horizons 2026: Greenville’s Community Plan. These developments
will contain multi-story mixed-use buildings that are located close together
and near the street. These centers may include an integrated mix of building
types and uses in vertically mixed-use buildings that generally include
commercial on the ground floor and office space or residential on upper floors.
   (B)   Intent. It is the intent of these standards to provide an alternate
development option that will:
      (1)   Promote the efficient use of land resources than is otherwise
possible under conventional zoning development standards;
      (2)   Encourage infill and redevelopment;
      (3)   Offer an optional development pattern with primary uses of
commercial, office, multi-family residential and, secondarily, institutional/
civic, entertainment and lodging;
      (4)   Offer options that allow and encourage a variety of multi-storied
vertical and horizontal use building configurations;
      (5)   Allow vertical mixed-use developments and their principal uses to
occur on one or more lots under a unifying master plan, which may also occur in
phases;
      (6)   Allow two or more permitted uses to occupy the same principal
building;
      (7)   Require the ground floor of any vertically mixed-use building to be
designated for an active principal use (i.e., no storage) with accommodation
for “wrapped” parking structures as referenced in section
9-4-212(F); and
      (8)   Be exempt from the conventional zoning district standards relative
to lot area, lot width, lot frontage, lot coverage, and required yards normally
applicable with other forms of single-use development, and provided the
vertical mixed-use development complies with the minimum standards set forth in
this article.
   (C)   Applicability. The standards established in this article shall apply
to new construction and conversions of existing buildings. All property to be
developed under these standards must be included in the master plan application
as required in section
9-4-215.
(Ord. No. 24-052, § 3, passed 9-12-2024)
SEC. 9-4-207 RESIDENTIAL DENSITY.
   (A)   The minimum lot area requirements per dwelling unit is as follows for
all districts:
      (1)   One-bedroom unit: 2,300 square feet (net) per unit.
      (2)   Two or more bedroom unit: 2,900 square feet (net) per unit.
   (B)   The minimum habitable (mechanically conditioned) floor area per unit
for all districts: none.
   (C)   Density bonus. There is no maximum residential density limit when
structured parking (deck, garage, and the like) is used to accommodate at least
25% of the total required parking spaces.
      (1)   The minimum habitable (mechanically conditioned) floor area per
unit:
         (a)   One bedroom unit: 400 square feet.
         (b)   Two or more bedroom unit: 500 square feet.
      (2)   However, the other standards in the article shall be met.
   (D)   At least 30% of the total gross floor area of the development must be
designed and constructed for residential occupancy.
   (E)   Residential units may be located on the first floor of a vertical
mixed-use building provided there is at least 2,400 square feet of
nonresidential floor area on the first floor. Residential units may be on the
ground floor (street level) but shall not be oriented toward the street. A
lobby/vestibule can be used as a “buffer” to the street and shall count as part
of the required 30% of the total gross floor area of the development must be
designed and constructed for residential occupancy referenced in subsection
(D).
   (F)   Overnight accommodations (hotels, motels, and bed and breakfast inns)
are considered nonresidential uses.
   (G)   With the following exceptions, the residential component may not
exceed 80% of the gross floor area for the development. In the event of a
phased development, this ratio applies to each phase.
      (1)   The preceding residential component limitation does not apply to
vertical mixed-use buildings that are at least four stories if the street
frontage of the first floor is entirely occupied by restaurants, personal and
professional services or retail sales and services uses.
      (2)   Penetrations for access to parking, utilities and residential uses
are allowed.
   (H)   Multi-family dwellings, condominiums, and townhouse development shall
be permitted in a vertical mixed-use development.
   (I)   Single-family and two-family dwellings shall not be permitted.
(Ord. No. 24-052, § 3, passed 9-12-2024)
SEC. 9-4-208 NONRESIDENTIAL USES.
   (A)   Nonresidential uses shall make up at least 20% of the total gross
floor area of the development. These uses can only be counted toward this
requirement when they are open to the public. This section shall not apply if
the conditions of section
9-4-207(G) are met.
      (1)   Development amenities that are commercial in nature and open to the
public (e.g., spas and health clubs) may count towards this requirement.
      (2)   In no case, shall leasing offices or amenities for the exclusive
use of residents and not open to the public be counted towards this
requirement.
   (B)   Any accessory uses, including outdoor seating, if permitted in the
district, shall meet the applicable accessory use standards.
(Ord. No. 24-052, § 3, passed 9-12-2024)
SEC. 9-4-209 DEVELOPMENT AND DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Lot dimensions.
      (1)   Lot area minimum: none.
      (2)   Lot width: none.
   (B)   Height minimum (above grade): two stories.
   (C)   (1)   Height limit (above grade): none.
      (2)   Vertical mixed-use buildings exceeding 45 feet in height (above
grade) shall be placed no closer than 50 feet to (i) a conforming use single-
family dwelling located in any district, or (ii) any single-family residential
zoning district. The required measurement shall be from the building or
structure containing a vertical mixed-use building to the nearest single-family
dwelling lot line or single-family residential zoning district boundary line.
For purpose of this section, the term "single-family residential zoning
district" shall include any RA20, R15S, R9S, R6S, and MRS district. Each
principal vertical mixed-use building shall be separated from other buildings a
minimum of 15 feet or as required by fire code, whichever is greater.
   (D)   Setbacks for principal structures.
      (1)   Public street setback minimum:
         (a)   Zero feet in CD (Downtown Commercial).
         (b)   Five feet in other districts permitting vertical mixed-use
development or the required bufferyard, whichever is greater.
      (2)   Public street build-to zones apply to new buildings constructed
after the effective date of this article.
         (a)   Zero to five feet in CD (Downtown Commercial).
         (b)   Other districts permitting vertical mixed-use development (as
per the street standards in the Manual of Standard of Designs and Details):
            1.   Fronting collector streets: five to 20 feet.
            2.   Fronting minor thoroughfares: five to 30 feet.
            3.   Fronting major thoroughfares: five to 40 feet.
      (3)   Side setback: five feet minimum or the required bufferyard,
whichever is greater.
      (4)   Rear setback: five feet minimum or the required bufferyard,
whichever is greater.
   (E)   Setbacks for accessory structures; attached accessory structures.
      (1)   For purposes of this section, any accessory structure attached to a
principal structure shall be subject to the open space, setback, building
separation and bufferyard requirements of the principal structure except as
further provided.
      (2)   Attached accessory structures must meet all of the following
requirements:
         (a)   Access to and from the accessory structure shall be by an
exterior doorway. No interior window or doorway shall be permitted;
         (b)   No attached accessory structure shall be considered or utilized
as habitable space;
         (c)   The combined horizontal dimension of all attached accessory
structures shall not exceed 30% of the horizontal dimension of the exterior
rear wall elevation of the common principal structure to which they are
attached;
         (d)   Attached accessory structures may share a common party wall of
unspecified minimum length with other accessory structures; provided, however,
if there is an offset of the wall the offset shall be subject to subsection (E)
(2)(e) below;
         (e)   Attached accessory structures, associated with a common
principal building, which do not share a common party wall with other attached
accessory structures shall be separated by not less than five feet; and
         (f)   Shall not be located within ten feet of any adjacent principal
or attached accessory structure or detached accessory structure.
   (F)   Use separations within the same building are determined by the
building codes.
(Ord. No. 24-052, § 3, passed 9-12-2024)
SEC. 9-4-210 BUILDING AND SITE DESIGN.
   (A)   A conceptual master plan and building elevations indicating proposed
architectural style shall be provided as required in section
9-4-215.
   (B)   Building spaces should be designed to anticipate maximum use
flexibility (and building codes) and accommodate a range of occupants and
tenants. The first floor of a vertical mixed-use building may be designed to
accommodate a restaurant, an office, or retail without requiring substantial
structural modifications to the building and compatibility of uses.
(Ord. No. 24-052, § 3, passed 9-12-2024)
SEC. 9-4-211 OPEN SPACE STANDARDS.
   (A)   (1)   Ten percent of the gross area shall be reserved as common and/or
private open space.
      (2)   Open space shall mean space that is not occupied by a building
footprint, street, or parking surfaces and is generally characterized as active
or passive recreation areas, courtyards, outdoor amenities, walkways, natural
and landscaped areas, buffer yards and unfenced stormwater best management
practices.
   (B)   Public and/or private streets, driveways, off-street parking areas,
principal and attached accessory structures shall not be utilized in
calculating or counting towards the open space requirement.
   (C)   Recreation areas may be counted as open space, provided impervious
surfaces constitute no more than 50% of the recreation area.
   (D)   If any portion of the area proposed for a vertical mixed-use
development lies within an area designated in the officially adopted Greenway
Master Plan as a greenway corridor, the area so designated shall be included as
part of the area set aside to satisfy the open space requirements of this
section. The area within the greenway corridor shall be dedicated and/or
reserved to the public at the option of the city.
(Ord. No. 24-052, § 3, passed 9-12-2024)
SEC. 9-4-212 PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as modified in this section, parking shall be provided for
vertical mixed-use development in accordance with Article O. Parking.
   (B)   Parking reduction. There is an automatic 20% reduction of the minimum
off-street parking spaces otherwise required in section
9-4-252 for any use or combination of uses in a vertical mixed-use development.
   (C)   Shared or combined parking among residential and nonresidential uses
shall be permitted under provisions in section
9-4-246.
   (D)   Rear yard parking. On-site surface parking lots shall be located to
the rear of vertical mixed-use buildings in the CD and CDF. In all other
districts permitting vertical mixed-use development, the on-site surface
parking shall be located to the rear of buildings; provided however that a
maximum of one double row of parking forward of the principal structure is a
permissible alternative design in order to align with an existing adjacent
development to accommodate cross-parking lot access easements. The remaining
demand for on-site surface parking shall be located to the rear of a vertical
mixed-use building.
   (E)   Remote parking. Arrangements for remote parking are permissible in
compliance with section
9-4-250.
   (F)   Structured parking. Structured parking is permitted and encouraged. To
encourage concealment of parking structures (wrapped garages), the floor area
of levels of parking completely obscured from view at ground level of a public
street by enclosed areas designed and constructed for commercial, office, or
residential use and occupancy may be counted towards the ground level
nonresidential component requirement. In order to be credited toward the
requirement, the following conditions must be met:
      (1)   Commercial, residential, or office space must have a minimum depth
(as measured from the street wall) of 20 feet and must have windows or doors
facing the public streets.
      (2)   The ground floor at street level must be designed and constructed
for retail or personal service uses. However, penetrations for access to the
parking structure and utilities are allowed.
      (3)   Upper stories shall be designed and constructed for commercial,
office, residential or institutional uses.
(Ord. No. 24-052, § 3, passed 9-12-2024)
SEC. 9-4-213 GARBAGE/TRASH CONTAINER, RECYCLING CENTER AND COMPACTOR LOCATIONS.
   (A)   No garbage/trash container or recycling center shall be located closer
than 20 feet to any dwelling structure and no compactor shall be located closer
than 50 feet to any dwelling structure.
   (B)   Each garbage/trash container required to service the development shall
be located within 200 feet of the dwelling units such container is intended to
serve.
   (C)   Garbage/trash containers and recycling centers shall be enclosed on
three sides by a complete visual screen consisting of a fence, vegetation or
combination thereof.
   (D)   Except as further provided, compactors shall be completely enclosed by
a visual screen and safety barrier composed of an opaque masonry wall and
opaque metal or wooden gate, said wall and gate shall be not less than two feet
higher than the highest point of the compactor. The Director of Planning and
Development Services or designee may approve substitute wall and gate material,
provided the wall and gate results in an opaque visual screen and safety
barrier as required by this subsection; vegetation shall not be acceptable for
this purpose.
   (E)   Garbage/trash containers, recycling centers and compactors shall be in
accordance with Title 6, Chapter 3 of the Greenville City Code.
(Ord. No. 24-052, § 3, passed 9-12-2024)
SEC. 9-4-214 GENERAL FAÇADE STANDARDS APPLICABILITY.
   These standards shall apply to all levels/stories of the building unless
otherwise noted.
   (A)   Transparency.
      (1)   There shall be a minimum of 50% transparency, consisting of
windows, doors, or openings in the façade, for the length and surface of the
structure for the ground floor at street level facing the public street.
      (2)   The lowermost portion of windows on the ground floor of vertical
mixed-use buildings shall be located not more than 36 inches from the ground.
      (3)   The façades in upper floors shall have a minimum 20% fenestration
consisting of windows, doors, or openings.
      (4)   Buildings shall have at least one clearly defined prominent
pedestrian entrance per street frontage on each street-facing façade. In the
case of a building on a corner with two frontages, one prominent pedestrian
entrance located on the corner satisfies this requirement for both frontages.
      (5)   In the case of existing structures being converted to a vertical
mixed-used building, there shall be a minimum of 40% transparency, consisting
of windows, doors, or openings in the façade, for the length and surface of the
structure for the ground floor at street level facing the public street.
   (B)   Architectural features. To improve distinction of buildings and
various building spaces along walls viewed from sharp angles and long
distances, the following standards shall apply to new construction:
      (1)   No wall that faces a public street shall have an uninterrupted
length exceeding 20 feet.
      (2)   All building walls must include at least two of the following:
         (a)   Change of plane;
         (b)   Change of texture or masonry pattern;
         (c)   Windows; or
         (d)   Include an equivalent aspect that subdivides the wall into
proportions such as an articulated base with a height (above grade) no more
than ten feet.
         (e)   Alternatively, in the event that actual doors and windows are
not feasible because of the nature of the use of the building, side and/or rear
walls that face walkways may include false windows and door openings defined by
frames, sills, lintel, or proportional modulations of the wall.
(Ord. No. 24-052, § 3, passed 9-12-2024)
SEC. 9-4-215 MASTER PLAN APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application. A master plan application for a vertical mixed-use
development shall be submitted for approval to the Director of Planning and
Development Services, or designee, with supporting approvals through the City
of Greenville Technical Review Committee.
   (B)   Master plan requirements. Each application must also include the
following:
      (1)   The specific standards intended to be modified as part of the
approval process. If a standard is not listed as being modified, then the
standard is considered applicable, and the plan is required to comply. However,
subsequent requests for alternative compliance may still be submitted.
      (2)   The proposed maximum number of dwelling units and percentage of
residential use.
      (3)   The proposed maximum and minimum square footage of nonresidential
floor area.
      (4)   In the event that a development is to occur in phases, then a
phasing plan must be provided. Said phasing plan will also include an
improvement schedule that may defer phase specific improvements by no more than
one phase from when the associated phase is completed.
      (5)   An illustrative three-dimensional model or digital rendering that
shows building elevations, location of streets and prominent site features. The
three-dimensional model must illustrate the potential massing and scale of the
proposed development but will not be regulatory.
      (6)   Standards for vertical mixed-use development may be modified
through application approval to the Director of Planning and Development
Services or his/her designee. This approval will be granted as part of the
Technical Review Committee process.
   (C)   Amendments.
      (1)   Minor changes. Amendments to approved applications that in the
opinion of the Director of Planning and Development Services do not
substantially change the concept of the vertical mixed-use development as
approved may be allowed by administrative action of the Director of Planning
and Development Services or his/her designee. Such minor changes may include,
but are not limited to, small site alterations such as realignment of streets
and relocation of utility lines due to engineering necessity. The owners shall
request such amendment in writing, clearly setting forth the reasons for such
changes. If approved, the land use plan shall be so amended by administrative
action of the Director of Planning and Development Services or his/her designee
to submission of any preliminary plat-site plan application involving or
affecting such amendment. Appeal from the decision of the Director of Planning
and Development Services shall be taken to the Board of Adjustment within 30
days of the administrative action.
      (2)   Major changes. Amendments to approved applications that in the
opinion of the Director of Planning and Development Services do in fact involve
substantial changes and deviations from the concept of the vertical mixed-use
development, as approved, shall require review and approval pursuant to section
9-4-215(A). Such major changes shall include, but not be limited to, increased
density, change in street pattern, location of land uses, open space or
recreation space location or area. Appeal from the decision of the Director of
Planning and Development Services or his/her designee may be taken to the Board
of Adjustment within 30 days of the administrative action.
      (3)   Authority. Minor changes may be approved administratively by the
Director of Planning and Development Services or his/her designee.
(Ord. No. 24-052, § 3, passed 9-12-2024)
ARTICLE N. SIGNS
SEC. 9-4-221 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this article to allow certain signs of a residential
and commercial nature in areas designated for those uses which will best
provide and ensure:
   (A)   The health, safety and general welfare of the people;
   (B)   The adequate supply of light and air to adjacent properties;
   (C)   Adequate and proportionate advertisement displays which promote and
protect the economic vitality of the community;
   (D)   That signage displayed adjacent to and visible from a public right-of-
way will not distract or confuse the motoring public, thereby causing a public
hazard; and
   (E)   That the aesthetic quality of the city is maintained for the benefit
of all the citizens of the City of Greenville, Pitt County, and the State of
North Carolina as a whole.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-222 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   Banner. A temporary sign display that is constructed of non-self-supporting
or rigid material that is supported on two or more sides or corners by a rope,
wire or other attachment that allows the display to move when struck by wind,
and which is not a permanent sign or flag as a defined in this section. (See
also definition of flag.)
   Banner flag. A non-self-supporting fabric or film display that is supported
only along the top (highest side) by a pole or mast that is not curved and is
affixed to the side of a building.
   Building frontage. The distance expressed in linear feet of the horizontal
dimension of a building wall that is parallel and adjacent to one or more of
the qualifying areas listed below:
      (a)   A public or private street;
      (b)   A common parking area in the case of a planned center;
      (c)   A public parking area; or
      (d)   A public access walkway.
   Exposed walls. Exterior walls of a building that are taller in height than a
directly adjacent building or vacant lot.
   Exposed walls. Exterior walls of a building that are taller in height than a
directly adjacent building or vacant lot.
   Flag. A non-self supporting fabric or film display that is supported on one
side by a pole or mast, and is allowed to hang limp without vertical or
horizontal structure and/or to move freely when struck by wind. A non-self-
supporting fabric or film display that is supported on two or more sides or
corners, or that is supported only along the top (highest) side, shall
constitute a banner. (See also definition of banner, banner flag.)
   Freestanding sign. A sign that is not directly and permanently attached to,
supported by or erected on a building or other structure having a principal
function other than support of the sign. To qualify as a permanent freestanding
sign, displays made from non-self-supporting materials, including flex-face
type signs, shall be permanently affixed to the sign support structure by a
method approved by the Building Inspector, and the display (sign face) shall be
enclosed and/or attached face, or within a two-inch or wider raised sign
cabinet specifically designed for support of the sign.
   Lot frontage. The distance expressed in linear feet of the common property
boundary lines of a lot of record and a public or private street.
   Off-premises sign.  An outdoor advertising sign used for the purpose of
displaying non- point-of-sale advertisement which directs attention to a
business, establishment, profession, service, event, entertainment, condition
or commodity that is located, manufactured, conducted, sold or otherwise
offered or provided at an off-premises or off-site location other than the lot
of record where the sign is constructed or displayed, except as further
provided under section
9-4-236(B). Off-premises signs are hereby divided into two separate categories
for purposes of regulation under section
9-4-236(B) as follows: temporary poster panel off-premises sign, and permanent
panel off-premises sign. Any off-premises sign may be converted from either
category to the other; provided, however, the use of any such sign shall be
regulated in accordance with the category assignment of the sign at time of
use.
      Permanent panel off-premises sign. As used herein, a sign having a
permanent frame and either a permanent or interchangeable solid display
mounting surface upon which the sign’s message or advertising content is
permanently affixed to or painted directly on the display mounting surface.
Specifically, any off-premises sign not meeting the definition of temporary
poster panel off-premises sign below shall be construed as a “permanent panel
off-premises sign.”
      Temporary poster panel off-premises sign. As used herein shall be defined
as a sign having a permanent frame and solid display mounting surface upon
which interchangeable messages, in the form of a temporary advertising poster
composed of paper, film or other similar temporary non-self- supporting
material, are mounted utilizing an adhesive or other similar temporary contact
attachment method and which can be removed without disassembly of the display
mounting surface. The term “temporary advertising poster” as used herein shall
include only those displays which are printed, painted, drawn or otherwise
created in complete content and form at a remote location and which are then
adhered to the display mounting surface in single or multiple sheets. Mounting
of poster displays to the display mounting surface by the use of nails,
staples, screws, bolts, clips, hooks, cords, ropes, straps and similar methods
shall be regarded as a permanent attachment as opposed to a temporary
attachment and the poster displays shall not constitute a temporary advertising
poster. All temporary advertising posters shall be open to the natural elements
and shall not be enclosed or covered by plastic, glass or other permanent
transparent material, enclosure or case.
   On-premises sign. An advertising sign used for purposes of displaying point-
of-sale advertisement which attracts attention to a business, establishment,
profession, service, event, entertainment, condition or commodity that is
manufactured, conducted, sold or otherwise offered or provided on the lot of
record where the sign is constructed or displayed. “On-premises signs” are all
signs not otherwise defined or regulated as off-premises signs.
   Owner occupant. Any person, firm, corporation, lessee, receiver, trustee,
guardian or personal representative holding legal title or legal right to
occupy or carry on business in a structure or any facility, or any manager,
operator or other person authorized to conduct business on behalf of an owner,
and shall include each and every person who shall have title to or benefit of a
sign, or for whose benefit any type sign is erected or maintained. Where there
is more than one owner, as defined, their duties and obligations under this
chapter are joint and several and shall include the responsibility for the
sign.
   Parapet. The extension of the main wall or walls of a building above the
roof level.
   Planned center. See Article B of this chapter.
   Roof sign. A sign that is directly and permanently attached to and supported
by the roof of a building or structure having a principal function other than
support of the sign.
   Sign. Any display device that is sufficiently visible and is located and
designed to attract the attention of persons or to communicate any information
to them.
   Subdivision directory sign. A sign containing locational information
relative to property owners, tenants, establishments or addresses within a
platted subdivision. The sign shall contain no commercial advertisement.
   Temporary sign. Any portable advertisement display that directs or attracts
public attention to a specific event, product sold or service offered by the
beneficiary of the display. Such signs include but are not limited to the
following:
      (1)   Signs made of paper, cloth, polyethylene film or other similar
material;
      (2)   Signs that are not permanently affixed to the ground or building
surface in a manner approved by the Building Inspector;
      (3)   Trailer signs;
      (4)   Portable signs; and
      (5)   Banners, flags or other similar devices.
   Wall sign. A sign that is directly and permanently attached to and supported
by a building or other structure having a principal function other than support
of the sign. For purposes of this definition, poles, fences, storage tanks,
bracing or other similar structures shall not be considered as a building or
structure having a principal function other than support of the sign, and
canopies and their support structures shall be considered as a building or
structure having a principal function other than support of the sign.
      (1)   To qualify as a permanent “wall sign,” displays made from non-self-
supporting materials, including flex-face type signs, shall be permanently
affixed to the building or other structure by a method approved by the Building
Inspector, and the display (sign face) shall be enclosed and/or attached:
         (a)   By a two-inch or wider raised frame that supports the sign face;
or
         (b)   Within a two-inch or wider raised sign cabinet specifically
designed for support of the sign.
      (2)   The intent of subsections (1)(a) and (b) is to prohibit direct
contact attachment of non-self-supporting material signs on a supporting wall
or qualified structure and to require that the display (sign face) is separated
from the supporting wall or qualified structure by not less than two inches.
   Wind blade. A non-self supporting fabric or film display that is supported
on one side by a pole or mast that is curved at the top so that the message is
visible regardless of wind conditions. Wind blades shall be freestanding and
shall not be attached to any permanent structure.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 96-45, § 2, passed 6-13-1996;
Ord. No. 02-63, §§ 1, 2, passed 6-13-2002; Ord. No. 06-76, § 1, passed 8-10-
2006; Ord. 12-017, § 1, passed 4-12- 2012; Ord. No. 20-016, §§ 2, 3, passed 3-
12-2020; Ord. No. 24-018, § 1, passed 3-14-2024)
SEC. 9-4-223 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No sign shall be erected upon any lot or attached to, suspended from
or supported on a building or structure, nor shall any existing sign be
enlarged, removed, relocated or materially repaired unless a zoning compliance
and building permit for the same has been issued by the city. The permit shall
be on forms supplied by the city and shall contain such information as
necessary to ensure that the requirements and conditions of this article can be
met.
   (B)   There shall be no sign permit issued unless the plans, specifications
and intended use of the sign or part thereof conform in all respects to all
applicable provisions of the Zoning Ordinance and the North Carolina State
Building Code.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-224 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SIGNS.
   (A)   All signs shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with this
article and the North Carolina State Building Codes, as amended. In the event
of conflicting provisions of this article and the North Carolina State Building
Codes, the more restrictive shall apply.
   (B)   No sign shall be erected or allowed to remain erected that is
structurally unsafe, hazardous and in the opinion of the Building Inspector,
constitutes a danger to the public safety. If, in the opinion of the Building
Inspector, any sign should become insecure or in danger of falling or otherwise
unsafe, the owner thereof or the person or firm maintaining the same shall,
upon written notice from the Building Inspector, immediately secure the sign in
a manner to be approved by the Building Inspector in conformity with the
provisions of this article or remove the sign at the expense of the owner. Any
freestanding sign that is not permanently attached to the ground in a manner
approved by the Building Inspector shall be considered a danger to public
safety.
   (C)   To ensure that signs are maintained in a safe and aesthetic manner,
the following maintenance requirements must be observed for all signs visible
from any public street.
      (1)   No sign shall have more than 20% of its display surface area
covered with disfigured, chipped, peeling, cracked, ripped or frayed material
of any description for a period of more than 30 successive days.
      (2)   No sign shall be allowed to remain with bent or broken display area
(s), broken supports, loose appendages or struts, or allowed to stand more than
15 degrees away from the perpendicular for a period of more than 30 successive
days.
      (3)   No sign shall be allowed to have weeds, trees, vines or other
vegetation growing upon it for a period of more than 30 successive days.
      (4)   No indirect or internally illuminated sign shall be allowed with
only partial illumination for a period of more than 30 successive days.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 99-4, § 1, passed 1-14-1999;
Ord. No. 02-94, § 1, passed 9-12-2002)
   (D)   Signs and sign support structures that are abandoned for a period of
12 months shall be removed regardless of compliance with subsections (A), (B)
and (C) above. For purposes of this section, when an establishment, building or
use that is the beneficiary of any on-premises sign has been vacated and is
otherwise no longer in operation, all signs and sign support structures
associated with the vacated establishment, building or use shall be deemed to
be abandoned.
(Ord. No. 06-35, § 1, passed 4-13-2006)
SEC. 9-4-225 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Any sign existing on the effective date (November 13, 1986) of this
article that does not meet the requirements of this article or any amendment
hereto shall be considered nonconforming. The sign shall be allowed to remain
unless otherwise provided herein.
   (B)   No such nonconforming sign shall be altered, expanded or enlarged
except as provided under subsection (C) below. Change in permanent copy shall
be considered an alteration. For purposes of this section, permanent copy shall
not include off-premises signs with changeable panels and reader board type
signs with removable letters.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Any existing on-premises freestanding sign which is nonconforming
with respect to a public street setback may be altered, provided all on-site
freestanding sign(s) comply with all of the following conditions:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided, the provisions of Article C of
this chapter shall apply.
         (b)   The total number of all freestanding signs shall comply with
applicable requirements.
         (c)   The sign surface area of all freestanding signs shall comply
with applicable requirements.
         (d)   The altered freestanding sign height shall not be increased.
         (e)   The altered freestanding sign shall not exceed the maximum
height for the district for a sign which is set back ten or more feet from the
public street right-of-way.
         (f)   There shall be no increase in any existing nonconforming
situation or the creation of any new nonconforming situation.
      (2)   Any existing off-premises sign which is nonconforming with respect
to spacing, setback and/or construction may be altered, including replacement,
provided the altered or replacement sign complies with all of the following
conditions.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided, the provisions of Article C shall
apply.
         (b)   No such sign shall be altered or replaced unless the sign is
located within a zoning district that allows off-premises signs as a permitted
use.
         (c)   There shall be no increase in any existing nonconforming
situation or the creation of any new nonconforming situation.
         (d)   Except as further provided, a sign altered or replaced pursuant
to this section shall comply with all applicable requirements including sign
area, horizontal and vertical dimension, height, construction and landscaping
as provided herein.
         (e)   There shall be no increase in sign size, including sign display
area vertical or horizontal dimension, or in sign height.
         (f)   Prior to alteration or replacement of any such sign, the owner
shall provide information, including photographic picture(s), scaled graphic
depiction, site plan and any additional documentation as maybe required, to the
Director of Planning and Development Services or his or her designee which
illustrates and details the existing and proposed sign. No sign shall be
altered or replaced prior to issuance of a zoning compliance and building
permit.
         (g)   A building permit to replace the sign shall be obtained prior to
the removal of the original sign. Construction of the replacement sign shall be
initiated within the valid period of the original building permit. Failure to
initiate construction of the sign within the valid permit period shall void any
right to replace the sign under this section. Replacement of any sign initiated
after the valid permit period shall be subject to all requirements in effect
for location and construction of a new sign.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided, no nonconforming sign shall be repaired
when the repairs exceed 50% of the actual replacement value, as determined by
the Building Inspector, except in conformance with this article.
   (E)   All temporary signs existing on the effective date (November 13, 1986)
of this article which do not conform to the requirements set forth herein shall
be removed within six months from the effective date of this article.
    (F)   Any sign erected after the effective date (November 13, 1986) of this
article that does not conform to the requirements set forth herein shall be
considered in violation of this article and must be removed at the owner’s
expense.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 95-137, § 1, passed 12-14-1995;
Ord. No. 03-78, §§ 1-4, passed 8-14-2003; Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-
2006; Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 9-4-226 NONCONFORMING SIGN; ORDER TO REMEDY OR REMOVE.
   If any sign as defined by this article is erected or maintained in violation
of this article, the owner of the sign shall be subject to the enforcement
provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-227 SIGNS NOT REQUIRING PERMITS.
   The following signs shall not require a zoning compliance permit under this
article; provided, however, any such signs shall comply with all other
requirements of this article and chapter except that the signs shall not be
included in or count towards the total allowable sign surface area or total
number of allowable freestanding signs.
   (A)   Signs not exceeding three square feet in total sign surface area that
are associated with residential use and that are not of a commercial nature.
The sign surface area shall contain only property identification names or
numbers or names of occupants or warnings to the public;
   (B)   Memorial plaques, cornerstones, historical tablets and similar
devices;
   (C)   Signs erected by or on behalf of or pursuant to the authorization of a
governmental body, including legal notices, identification and information
signs and traffic directional or regulatory signs;
   (D)   On-premises flags, balloons, insignia of nonprofit or governmental
organizations shall be allowed subject to all of the following requirements:
      (1)   Flags and wind blades are permitted as follows:
         (a)   Temporary freestanding flags and wind blades are not permitted.
         (b)   Flags with or without commercial messages that are located on
functioning light poles internal to the business lot shall be no more than 50
square feet in area. There is no limitation on the number permitted per lot.
         (c)   Flags attached to permanent poles shall be permitted as follows:
            1.   In nonresidential zoning districts, flagpoles shall not exceed
the maximum height allowed in the zoning district or 70 feet, whichever is
less.
            2.   In residential districts, flagpoles shall not exceed 25 feet
in height.
            3.   The maximum dimensions of any flagpole mounted flag shall be
proportional to the flagpole height. The hoist side of the flag shall not
exceed 20% of the vertical height of the pole. In addition flags are subject to
the dimensional limits found in the following table:
Pole Height (feet) Max. Non-Commercial Flag Size  Max. Commercial Flag Size
                   (square feet)                  (square feet)
Pole Height (feet) Max. Non-Commercial Flag Size  Max. Commercial Flag Size
                   (square feet)                  (square feet)
Up to 25           24                             24
25 to 29           28                             28
30 to 34           40                             40
35 to 39           60                             50
40 to 49           96                             50
50 to 59           150                            50
60 to 70           216                            50
 
            4.   Each property shall be allowed a maximum of three flagpoles.
            5.   A maximum of three flags shall be allowed per flagpole.
            6.   The flag and flagpole shall be maintained in good repair. A
flagpole with broken halyards shall not be used and flags which are torn and
frayed shall not be displayed.
            7.   On United States and North Carolina holidays, there shall be
no maximum flag size or number or other limitations on manner of display.
            8.   Flags shall not be mounted directly on a building wall.
      (2)   Balloons, except as qualified and regulated under section 9-4-233
(K) of this article, shall comply with all of the following requirements:
         (a)   Balloons shall be removed each day for the period extending
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. unless otherwise provided herein;
         (b)   Balloons shall be maintained in accordance with section
9-4-224 of this article;
          (c)   No balloon shall exceed a maximum height of 125 feet above
grade, as measured from the point of ground attachment to the highest balloon
surface;
         (d)   Any balloon that exceeds 25 feet in height shall be set back
from all street right-of-way lines and overhead public utility transmission
and/or distribution lines a ground distance equal to the display height of the
balloon plus 25 feet, as measured from the ground attachment point to the
right-of-way line or to all ground points determined by a 90-degree vertical
line extending from the closest overhead public utility transmission and/or
distribution line as projected upon the ground, whichever is closer. The
purpose of this requirement is to provide a 25-foot clear fall zone in the
event of the balloons descent due to deflation or weather conditions;
         (e)   All balloons shall comply with the maximum height limitations
set forth under
Title 9, Chapter 3, Airport Zoning, of the Greenville City Code; and
         (f)   No individual balloon regulated under this section shall exceed
a dimension of 20 feet as measured by diameter in the case of spherical
balloons, or as measured by the greatest length in the case of oblong or
tubular balloons, including blimps and the like.
      (3)   Insignia of nonprofit or governmental organizations shall not be
displayed in connection with a commercial promotion or as an advertising
device.
   (E)   Integral decorative or architectural features of buildings or works of
art, provided the features or works of art do not contain advertisements,
trademarks, moving parts or lights;
   (F)   Signs erected for the purpose of directing traffic on private
property, identifying restrooms and parking area entrances or exits, provided
the signs shall not exceed three square feet. The signs shall not contain any
advertising, business name or logo;
   (G)   Signs painted on or otherwise permanently attached to current licensed
motor vehicles that are not primarily used as signs; and
   (H)   Certain temporary signs:
      (1)   Temporary signs erected in connection with elections or political
campaigns. Such signs shall be subject to section
12-1-5 of the Greenville City Code.
      (2)   Displays, including lighting, erected in connection with the
observance of holidays. Such displays shall be removed within ten days
following the holiday.
      (3)   Construction site identification signs shall be removed within ten
days after the issuance of the occupancy permit.
      (4)   Signs attached temporarily to the interior of a building’s window
or glass door. Such signs may not cover more than 25% of the transparent
surface area of the window or door to which they are attached. Signs painted on
a window or glass door shall not be considered as temporary.
      (5)   Temporary unilluminated real estate signs shall be subject to the
following.
         (a)   Within any residential zoning district, the total sign display
area of any real estate sign(s) erected on any lot shall not exceed 12 square
feet, unless otherwise provided herein.
         (b)   Within any nonresidential zoning district, the total sign
display area of any real estate sign(s) erected on any lot shall not exceed 50
square feet, unless otherwise provided herein.
         (c)   The total sign display area of all temporary real estate sign(s)
located on any multi-family lot that contains not less than 20 attached
dwelling units, in one or several structures, shall not exceed 50 square feet.
         (d)   For purposes of this section, the term “real estate sign” shall
include both “for sale” and “lease occupancy advertising” signs.
         (e)   Real estate “for sale” signs erected under this section shall be
removed within 14 days following the transfer of title of the lot, tract or
unit associated with the signs.
         (f)   Real estate “lease occupancy advertising” signs erected under
this section shall be removed within 14 days following the occupancy of all
leasehold units associated with the signs.
         (g)   Temporary real estate signs that are attached to a building,
fence, wall or other structure shall meet the requirements for a permanent wall
sign included under section
9-4-234(B).
         (h)   Temporary real estate signs that are freestanding shall meet the
requirements for a permanent freestanding sign included under section
9-4-234(C); provided, however, no freestanding real estate sign located in a
residential district shall exceed four feet in height and no real estate sign
located in a nonresidential district shall exceed eight feet in height.
      (6)   Temporary signs not covered in the foregoing categories, so long as
the signs meet the following restrictions.
         (a)   Not more than one sign may be located on any lot.
         (b)   No such sign shall exceed six square feet in area.
         (c)   The sign shall be restricted to nonresidential uses only.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 95-61, §§ 2–4, passed 6-8-1995;
Ord. No. 99-4, § 2, passed 1-14-1999; Ord. No. 05-15, §§ 1-2, passed 3-10-2005;
Ord. No. 06-76, § 2, passed 8-10-2006; Ord. 12-017, § 2, passed 4-12-2012; Ord.
No. 20-016, § 4, passed 3-12-2020)
SEC. 9-4-228 DETERMINING THE NUMBER OF SIGNS.
   (A)   For purposes of this article, a sign shall be considered a single
display device or surface containing organized or related elements, and which
form a unit. Randomly displayed elements without organized or related
relationship shall be considered individually in determining the total number
of signs.
   (B)   A double-face or a multi-side sign shall be regarded as one sign.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-229 COMPUTATION OF SIGN SURFACE AREA.
   (A)   The surface of a sign shall be computed by including the entire unit
within a single, continuous, rectilinear perimeter forming 90-degree angles,
enclosing the extreme limits of the writing, representation, emblem or other
display, together with any material or color forming an integral part of the
background of the display or used to differentiate the sign from the backdrop
or structure against which it is placed, but not including any supporting
framework or bracing that is clearly incidental to the display itself, except
as defined in subsection (B) of this section.
   (B)   With respect to three-dimensional or multi-sided signs (excluding
double-face signs), the total sign surface area of all sides shall not exceed
twice the maximum sign surface area as provided herein.
   (C)   With respect to decorative base or pylon mounted sign displays, the
base or pylon shall not be utilized in the calculation of sign display area,
provided the total area of the base or pylon does not exceed 50% of the total
sign display surface area. In cases where the base or pylon area exceeds 50% of
the total sign display area, the base or pylon shall be deemed to constitute a
sign as defined herein and shall be utilized in the calculation of total sign
area.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-230 TOTAL ALLOWABLE SIGN SURFACE AREA.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided in this article, the total surface area
devoted to all signs on any building shall not exceed the maximum limitations
set forth in this section.
   (B)   Temporary signs shall not be included in this calculation.
   (C)   Unless otherwise provided in this article, the maximum sign surface
area permitted for any residential use shall be three square feet.
   (D)   Unless otherwise provided in this article, the maximum wall sign
surface area permitted for any nonresidential use shall be determined as
follows.
      (1)   All wall signs for any one use shall not exceed one and one-half
square feet of sign surface area per linear foot of building frontage occupied
by such use.
      (2)   If a building has frontage on more than one qualifying area, then
the total sign surface area permitted on the building shall be the sum of the
sign surface area allotments related to each frontage.
      (3)   Signage may be allowed on any building wall, provided that the sign
surface area of all signs located on a wall of a structure may not exceed 25%
of the total surface area of the wall on which the signs are located. Wall
signage may be placed on a canopy, provided that the sides of a canopy shall be
considered as a wall, and the signage on a canopy shall be subject to the 25%
limitations of this section.
   (E)   The display area of wall signs painted on, affixed to or otherwise
displayed on or through a facade window shall not exceed 25% of the window
area.
   (F)   In cases where the provisions of this section will not allow signage
of at least 50 square feet, then the requirements of this section shall be
waived to the extent that a total wall sign allowance of 50 square feet or
less, at the option of the owner, shall be permitted.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 94-156, §§ 10, 11, passed 12-8-
1994; Ord. No. 95-29, § 9, passed 3-9-1995; Ord. No. 95-61, § 5, passed 6-8-
1995)
SEC. 9-4-231 NUMBER OF FREESTANDING SIGNS.
   (A)   Except as authorized by this section, no lot or planned center may
have more than one freestanding sign; provided, however, that if a lot or
planned center is located on a corner and has at least 150 feet of frontage on
each of the two intersecting public streets, then the lot or planned center may
have not more than one freestanding sign along each side of the lot or planned
center bordered by such streets.
   (B)   Additional frontage:
      (1)   If a lot or planned center has 300 or more feet of frontage on a
public street, then the lot or planned center may have not more than two
freestanding signs along the street, provided the signs are spaced not less
than 100 feet apart as measured from the center of the sign; or
      (2)   If a lot or planned center has 500 or more feet of frontage on a
single public street then the lot or planned center may have not more than
three freestanding signs along the street, provided the signs are spaced not
less than 100 feet apart as measured from the center of the sign.
   (C)   If a lot or planned center is bordered by two public streets that do
not intersect (double frontage lot), then the lot or planned center may have
not more than one freestanding sign on each public street, except as provided
herein.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 94-156, § 12, passed 12-8-1994;
Ord. No. 95-61, §§ 6, 7, passed 6-8-1995)
SEC. 9-4-232 FREESTANDING SIGN SURFACE AREA.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, a side of a freestanding sign is any
plane or flat surface area included in the calculation of the total sign
surface area as provided herein.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided, a single side of a freestanding sign may
not exceed one-half square foot in surface area for every linear foot of
frontage along the street toward which the sign is primarily oriented. However,
in no case may a single side of a freestanding sign exceed 125 square feet in
surface area.
      (1)   Within any Mixed Use Institutional District (MUI), a single side of
a freestanding sign may not exceed one-half square foot in surface area for
every linear foot of frontage along the street toward which the sign is
primarily oriented. However in no case may a single side of a freestanding sign
in this district exceed 200 square feet in surface area.
   (C)   With respect to freestanding signs that have no discernible “sides,”
such as spheres or other shapes not composed of flat planes, no such
freestanding signs may exceed one square foot in total surface area for every
linear foot of lot frontage along the street toward which the sign is primarily
oriented. However, in no case may the sign exceed 200 square feet in surface
area.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, a single side of a double-face
freestanding sign shall be considered as the total display surface for the
calculation of sign area, provided the sides are separated no more than 30
inches at any point.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 21-062, § 1, passed 11-8-2021)
SEC. 9-4-233 SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR CERTAIN SIGNS.
   (A)   Subdivision entrance and multi-family development signs.
      (1)   Freestanding signs. Except as further provided under subsection (A)
(2) below for the CD District, at any entrance to a subdivision or multi-family
development there may be not more than two freestanding signs identifying the
subdivision or development, and a single side of any such sign shall not exceed
50 square feet in total sign surface area. Freestanding identification signs
shall be subject to section
9-4-234; provided, however, no such sign shall exceed a height of ten feet
above the property grade. In cases where such signs are mounted on a decorative
functional or nonfunctional wall, the wall area shall not be utilized to
calculate total sign surface area. Such signage shall not be included in the
calculation of or count towards the total sign surface area for the lot on
which it is located.
      (2)   CD District wall and freestanding signs.  
         (a)   Each multi-family development located within a CD (Downtown
Commercial) District may have either:
            1.   Not more than two wall signs identifying the development;
            2.   Not more than two freestanding signs identifying the
development; or
            3.   Not more than one freestanding sign and one wall sign
identifying the development.
         (b)   No single side of a wall or freestanding sign allowed under this
section shall exceed 50 square feet in total sign surface area. Freestanding
and wall identification signs shall be subject to section
9-4-234; provided, however, no freestanding sign shall exceed a height of ten
feet above the property grade. In cases where the signs are mounted on a
decorative functional or nonfunctional wall, the wall area shall not be
utilized to calculate total sign surface area. Such signage shall not be
included in the calculation of or count towards the total sign surface area for
the lot on which it is located.
(Ord. No. 09-17, passed 3-5-2009)
   (B)   Grand opening signs.  Grand opening signs shall be subject to the
following requirements and/or exemptions.
      (1)   For purposes of this section, the term “grand opening” shall be
construed as a singular event of limited (ten- day maximum) duration designed
and intended to attract public attention to a recently established office,
commercial, industrial or multi-family land use. Expansion of an existing
principal use shall not be construed as a grand opening event. Addition of an
accessory use shall not be construed as a grand opening event. No temporary use
shall be construed as a grand opening event.
      (2)   Such event shall commence not later than 60 days following any
occupancy for use to qualify for a grand opening sign.
      (3)   No grand opening sign(s) shall be displayed for more than ten total
and continuous days.
      (4)   No maximum sign surface area requirement shall be established for
the sign(s).
      (5)   Within a planned center each lot or unit occupied by a separate
establishment may qualify for individual grand opening signs in accordance with
this section.
      (6)   Such sign(s) shall be exempt from the provisions of section
9-4-237 herein.
   (C)   Planned center directory signs. Such signs may be allowed, provided
they do not exceed 20 square feet in display area, six feet in height and are
located no closer than ten feet from the property line. There shall be no more
than two directory signs within any planned center. The signs shall contain no
commercial advertisement. The signage shall be allowed in addition to the
maximum wall or freestanding sign allowance for the lot on which the signage is
located.
   (D)   Nonresidential subdivision directory signs. Shall be subject to all of
the following standards and requirements.
      (1)   There shall be no more than two directory signs within a
subdivision.
      (2)   Such signs shall contain no commercial advertisement. For purposes
of this section establishment names and trademarks shall not be construed as
commercial advertisement.
      (3)   Such signs shall be located on private property and no portion of
the sign shall extend beyond any property boundary line or street right-of-way
line.
      (4)   No sign shall exceed a height of five feet unless the sign is set
back not less than ten feet from the street right-of-way.
      (5)   Such signage may contain subdivision identification in addition to
individual establishment identification panels.
      (6)   Where the sign contains any subdivision identification, that
portion of the sign devoted to subdivision identification shall be subject to
the maximum area and number of signs criteria set forth under subsection (A) of
this section.
      (7)   Additional specific standards for commercial and/or office
subdivisions are as follows:
         (a)   Maximum display area including subdivision identification shall
not exceed 50 square feet.
         (b)   Maximum height shall be ten feet.
         (c)   Individual establishment identification panels shall not exceed
four square feet in display area.
      (8)   Additional specific standards for industrial subdivisions are as
follows:
         (a)   Maximum display area including subdivision identification shall
not exceed 125 square feet.
         (b)   Maximum height shall be 25 feet.
         (c)   Individual establishment identification panels shall not exceed
16 square feet in display area.
      (9)   Such signage shall be allowed in addition to the maximum wall or
freestanding sign allowance for the lot on which the signage is located.
      (10)   This section shall not apply to subdivisions which constitute a
planned center. Planned center directory signage shall be in accordance with
subsection (C) of this section.
   (E)   Restaurant menu reader boards. No restaurant menu reader board shall
exceed 42 square feet in surface area or eight feet in height. Menu reader
boards shall be set back not less than 20 feet from any property line. Two menu
reader boards shall be allowed per each drive-through facility, not to exceed
one per order point, and the display shall contain no commercial advertisement
that can be viewed from any adjacent street right-of-way or property line. The
signage shall not be included in the calculation of or count towards the total
allowable sign surface area.
(Ord. No. 99-38, § 1, passed 4-8-1999; Ord. No. 19-057, § 2, passed 12-12-2019)
   (F)   Church signs.
      (1)   Off-premises directional signs. Church off-premises directional
signs shall not exceed three square feet in area or six feet in height. Such
signs shall be located on private property and shall be allowed in addition to
the maximum wall or freestanding sign allowance for the lot on which the
signage is located.
      (2)   On-premises signs.
         (a)   Wall signs. Shall be in accordance with section
9-4-230 of this article.
         (b)   Freestanding signs.
            1.   Shall not exceed 36 square feet in surface area except as
further provided. The number, height and location of the sign(s) shall be in
accordance with sections
9-4-231 and
9-4-234 of this article except as further provided.
            2.   When a lot qualifies for two or more freestanding signs along
any one street, the owner may option to erect one 72-square foot sign in lieu
of two 36-square foot signs. Within any residential zoning district, no
freestanding sign which exceeds 36 square feet in surface area shall exceed ten
feet in height.
   (G)   Permitted nonresidential uses. Except as otherwise provided, signs for
permitted nonresidential uses, excluding home occupations, located in a
residential zoning district may be allowed, provided the signs meet the
following restrictions.
      (1)   Signs shall not exceed 12 square feet in display surface area.
      (2)   Signs shall not exceed five feet in height above the property grade
in the case of a freestanding sign.
      (3)   Signs shall not exceed one sign per lot.
   (H)   Home occupations.
      (1)   Freestanding signs shall be prohibited.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided, wall signs shall be limited to two
square feet of total sign display area.
      (3)   Bed and breakfast inn signage shall be subject to the following
standards: wall signs shall be limited to four square feet of total sign
display area.
   (I)   Open door and/or open window signs. Any sign which can be viewed
through an open doorway and/or open window from any point outside the building
may be allowed subject to all of the following.
      (1)   Such signage shall be included in the calculations of and count
toward the total allowance of wall sign surface area.
      (2)   Such signs shall be permanently attached to the building by manner
of an approved rigid frame structure, by a solid metal chain or cable, or a
combination thereof.
      (3)   Such sign surface area shall be constructed of an approved rigid
material or shall be bound on not less than two sides by a rigid frame which
prohibits the signage from swaying loosely when struck by moving air.
      (4)   All portions of the signs shall be set back inside the interior
finished wall of the building.
      (5)   All such signs shall not cover or obstruct more than 25% of the
door or window opening.
      (6)   The lowest part of the signs displayed through an open doorway
shall be not less than eight feet above the doorway threshold if the signs are
located within ten feet of the subject doorway.
      (7)   Such signs shall be exempt from the wall sign projection standard
set forth under section
9-4-234(B) of this article; provided, however, no vertical dimension of any the
sign including supports shall exceed four feet.
      (8)   Signs located on and/or beneath a canopy shall not be construed as
open door and/or open window signs.
      (9)   Signs which are not designed to attract the attention of or convey
a message to persons located outside the building and which are designed only
to provide information or warnings to persons located inside the establishment
are exempt from regulation under this section.
   (J)   Temporary non-profit and governmental organization signs.  Temporary
sign(s), including banners, erected in conjunction with a special event
sponsored and conducted by a nonprofit or governmental organization shall be
allowed subject to all of the following conditions.
      (1)   It is the intention of this section that no such sign shall be
displayed in conjunction with a commercial promotion or as an advertising
device for a commercial establishment, product or service.
      (2)   Not more than one on-premises and three off-premises signs shall be
allowed in conjunction with any event. No sign shall be erected on any lot
without the consent of the property owner.
      (3)   No such sign shall exceed 30 square feet of sign surface area.
      (4)   There shall be not more than one special event sign allowed on any
lot.
      (5)   The maximum frequency of any special event display shall not exceed
one occurrence within any 12-month period and the maximum duration of the
display shall not exceed seven days. For purposes of this section, the duration
of each separate event display shall be measured in continuous days.
      (6)   Each display shall contain the name and current phone number of the
event sponsor and the sign permit number indelibly printed on the communication
side/surface in one-inch or larger letters.
      (7)   The sign shall be located completely on private property. No
portion of the sign or its support structure shall be located on or across any
public street right-of-way or private street easement.
      (8)   The sign shall not be located within any sight distance triangle as
defined in
Title 6, Chapter 2 of the Greenville City Code or as provided by notation or
description upon any map recorded pursuant to the subdivision regulations.
      (9)   No such sign shall be suspended from or attached to any public
utility pole, apparatus, structure or support/guy wire, any public or private
traffic-control or directional sign, structure or device, or any tree or shrub
located on public or private property.
      (10)   No such sign shall be erected or maintained which obstructs any
traffic-control sign or device or warning sign located on public or private
property.
      (11)   No such sign shall be erected on or across any recognized or
improved pedestrian area, path, walkway or sidewalk, driveway, interior drive
or parking lot drive aisle.
      (12)   Any sign erected or maintained in conflict with this section shall
be considered a nuisance and/or hazard to the public and shall be subject to
immediate removal by the city at the expense of the sponsoring nonprofit
organization and/or property owner in addition to other available remedies as
provided by law.
      (13)   Such sign(s) shall be exempt from section
9-4-237(G) herein.
   (K)   Temporary on-premises special event spotlights and roof mounted
inflatable balloons.  Except as otherwise provided herein, temporary special
event spotlights and roof mounted inflatable balloons shall be allowed, subject
to all of the following requirements.
      (1)   Spotlights.
         (a)   Not more than one spotlight shall be displayed on any lot at any
one time.
         (b)   No spotlight shall be displayed for more than two consecutive
days.
         (c)   No lot shall display any spotlight(s) for more than 20 total
days per calendar year.
      (2)   Roof mounted inflatable balloons.
         (a)   Not more than one roof mounted inflatable balloon shall be
displayed on any lot at any one time.
         (b)   No roof mounted inflatable balloon shall be displayed for more
than two consecutive days.
         (c)   No lot shall display any roof mounted inflatable balloon(s) for
more than 20 total days per calendar year.
      (3)   Terms.
         (a)   For purposes of this section, the term “lot” shall be construed
to include all contiguous parcels occupied by an establishment.
         (b)   For purposes of this section, the term “roof mounted inflatable
balloon” shall be construed to include only those balloons which meet all of
the following requirements: are mounted onto the roof of a structure having a
principal purpose other than the support of the balloon; are mounted on the
roof of a qualified structure by means of a gravity dependent and/or direct
contact attachment method; and are not tethered to the roof of a structure in a
manner which allows the balloon to free-float above the surface of the roof.
   (L)   Golf course signs. Golf courses located within a residential district
shall be subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Wall signage, including accessory use identification signage, shall
not exceed 20 square feet in total sign surface area.
      (2)   Golf course (principal use) freestanding signage shall be limited
to one sign. The sign shall not exceed 20 square feet in total sign surface
area and shall not exceed five feet in height.
      (3)   No freestanding signage shall be permitted in conjunction with an
accessory use, including but not limited to any dining facility and/or
restaurant, snack bar, pro-shop, social club, tennis court or swimming
facility.
      (4)   Freestanding and wall signage shall be illuminated by indirect
lighting only.
   (M)   Restaurant menu pre-browse boards. A full menu shall not be displayed
on a restaurant menu pre-browse board. No restaurant menu pre-browse board
shall exceed 20 square feet in surface area or eight feet in height. Menu pre-
browse boards shall be setback not less than 20 feet from any property line.
Two menu pre-browse boards shall be allowed per each drive-through facility,
not to exceed one per order point, and the display shall contain no commercial
advertisement that can be viewed from any adjacent street right-of-way or
property line. The signage shall not be included in the calculation of or count
towards the total allowable sign area.
   (N)   Exposed wall signs. In the CD Zoning District only, when a building
has exposed stories above the height of an adjacent building or vacant lot, and
the wall does not otherwise qualify for signage under the definition of
building frontage, the surface area of the exposed portion of the wall may be
used to calculate the total allowable sign surface area.
      (1)   Wall signs on exposed walls and/or parapets shall not exceed 1.5%
of the total square feet of the exposed area of the wall.
      (2)   Parapets added to existing buildings for the purpose of attaching
signs shall match the architecture of the rest of the building, be of the same
thickness, and on the same plane as the wall to which it is added, and be no
more than six feet above the roofline. Additions of a parapet for the purpose
of signage cannot be braced back to the roof.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 95-53, § 1, passed 5-11-1998;
Ord. No. 95-61, § 8, passed 6-8-1995; Ord. No. 96-29, § 1, passed 3-14-1996;
Ord. No. 96-35, § 1, passed 5-9-1996; Ord. No. 96-73, § 1, passed 8-8-1996;
Ord. No. 96-79, § 1, passed 8-8-1996; Ord. No. 96-91, § 1, passed 9-12-1996;
Ord. No. 97-64, § 1, passed 6-12-1997; Ord. No. 99-4, §§ 3 and 4, passed 1-14-
1999; Ord. No. 99-152, § 1, passed 12-9-1999; Ord. No. 05-15, § 3, passed 3-10-
2005; Ord. No. 05-89, § 8, passed 8-11-2005; Ord. No. 07-11, § 5, passed 1-11-
2007; Ord. No. 19-057, § 3, passed 12-12-2019; Ord. No. 24-018, § 2, passed 3-
14-2024)
SEC. 9-4-234 LOCATION AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as further provided, no portion of any sign shall extend beyond
any property boundary line of street right-of- way line.
   (B)   Additional wall sign standards.
      (1)   No wall sign shall extend above the top of any exterior wall line
of the building to which it is attached, except as provided under subsection
(B)(2) below.
      (2)   Wall signage may be permitted on the front (outside) edge of a
decorative roof structure (i.e., canopies, awnings and the like), provided the
top of the signage does not extend above the decorative roof structure and does
not extend more than five feet above the exterior wall to which the decorative
roof structure is attached. Also, wall signage may be permitted on top of a
decorative roof structure (i.e., canopies, awnings and the like), provided the
top of the signage does not extend above the exterior wall to which the
structure is attached and provided the signage does not extend past the front
(outside) edge of the decorative roof structure.
      (3)   No wall sign shall project more than 12 inches from the building,
except as provided under subsection (B)(4) and (5) below.
      (4)   Except as further provided, wall signage may be located on a sign
support frame provided the sign and support frame shall not project more than
three total feet from the building and provided the depth of the sign, as
measured perpendicular from the outside surface of the front face to the
outside surface or plane of the rear (building side) of the sign, is not more
than 12 inches.
         (a)   No wall sign, including any sign support frame, erected on a
decorative roof structure (i.e., canopies, awning and the like) shall project
more than 12 inches from the front (outside) edge of the decorative roof
structure.
         (b)   When a wall sign is erected on a sign support frame and when the
sign and support frame projects more than 12 total inches from the building,
the message portion of the sign, including any letters and/or graphics, shall
be parallel in orientation to the building wall.
         (c)   When a sign and/or support frame projects more than 12 inches
from a building the lowest part of the sign, display shall be not less than
eight feet above the adjacent finished ground surface elevation.
      (5)   Wall projection signs.
         (a)   For purposes of this section, wall projection signs shall be any
wall sign that projects more than 12 inches from the building and does not
qualify under subsection (4).
         (b)   Wall projection signs shall be allowed only in the CD (downtown
commercial) district and such signs shall be subject to compliance with all of
the following requirements:
            1.   Shall be permanently attached to an exterior wall of a
building in a manner approved by the Building Inspector.
            2.   Shall not be attached to the outside edge of a canopy or
extend beyond any outside edge of a canopy.
            3.   May project horizontally from the building wall not more than
four feet.
            4.   There shall not be more than 12 inches between the sign
display areas (faces) of a double-sided sign. Three-dimensional projection wall
signs not composed of flat sign display surfaces shall not be permitted.
            5.   Projection wall signs shall be located on private property,
provided however, a projection wall sign may encroach into the street right-of-
way in accordance with an encroachment agreement approved by the city, and
where applicable, the State Department of Transportation.
            6.   One projection wall sign is allowed for each side of a
building that fronts a public street or public alley.
            7.   Projection wall signs for individual principal use
establishments located in a common building shall not be located closer than
eight feet from any other projection wall sign located on the same building.
            8.   All projection wall signs for individual principal use
establishments located on a common building facade shall be of equal dimension,
including but not limited to, individual sign display area, width, height,
horizontal projection. Sign height above grade may vary provided compliance
with subsection (m) below.
            9.   Projection wall signs shall be considered part of the total
wall sign allowance.
            10.   Properties with frontage having 100 feet or less may have a
maximum projection wall sign area of 15 square feet and properties with
frontage having more than 100 feet may have a maximum projection wall sign area
of 30 square feet.
            11.   Properties with frontage having more than 100 feet and with
at least a three-story building located on the property with a height of at
least 40 feet and the building lot coverage area of at least 80% of the
property may have a maximum projection wall sign area of 50 square feet.
            12.   Minimum height of a projection wall sign, as measured from
the finished grade directly below the sign to the lowest point of the sign,
shall be not less than eight feet, except as further provided. Projection wall
signs subject to street right-of-way encroachment agreement approval shall have
a minimum height of not less than ten feet, or per encroachment agreement
condition, whichever is greater.
            13.   If required, all right-of-way encroachment agreement(s) must
be granted by the approval authority prior to sign permit application. A copy
of any encroachment agreement and any conditions shall be attached to the sign
permit application.
      (6)   (a)   To qualify as a permanent wall sign, displays made from non-
self-supporting materials, including flex-face type signs, shall be permanently
affixed to the building or other structure by a method approved by the Building
Inspector, and the display (sign face) shall be enclosed and/or attached:
            1.   By a two-inch or wider raised frame that supports the sign
face; or
            2.   Within a two-inch or wider raised sign cabinet specifically
designed for support of the sign.
         (b)   The intent of subsections (B)(6)(a)1. and 2. is to prohibit
direct contact attachment of non-self-supporting material signs on a supporting
wall or qualified structure and to require that the display (sign face) is
separated from the supporting wall or qualified structure by not less than two
inches.
      (7)   Banner flags.
         (a)   Banner flag signs shall be allowed only in office and commercial
districts and such signs shall be subject to compliance with all of the
following requirements:
            1.   Shall be permanently attached to an exterior wall of a
building in a manner approved by the Building Inspector.
            2.   Banner flag fixtures shall project a minimum of 18 inches from
a building.
            3.   Shall not be attached to the outside edge of a canopy or
extend beyond any outside edge of a canopy.
            4.   May project horizontally from the building wall not more than
four feet.
            5.   Banner flags shall be located on private property, provided
however, a banner flag sign may encroach into the street right-of-way in
accordance with an encroachment agreement approved by the city, and where
applicable, the State Department of Transportation.
            6.   One banner flag shall be allowed per 25 feet of building
frontage along a public right of way or one per individual principal use
establishment, whichever is greater.
            7.   A banner flag may only be located on the side of a building
which provided the frontage to allow it.
            8.   There shall be no minimum spacing between banner flags.
            9.   Banner flags signs for individual principal use establishments
located in a common building shall not be located closer than eight feet along
a horizontal plane from any projection wall sign located on the same building.
            10.   All banner flags signs for individual principal use
establishments located on a common building facade shall be of equal dimension,
including but not limited to, individual sign display area, width, height,
horizontal projection. Sign height above grade may vary provided compliance
with subsection (c) below.
            11.   Non-commercial banner flags shall not be considered part of
the total wall sign allowance.
            12.   Minimum height of a banner flag, as measured from the
finished grade directly below the sign to the lowest point of the sign, shall
be not less than eight feet, except as further provided. Banner flags subject
to street right-of-way encroachment agreement approval shall have a minimum
height of not less than ten feet, or per encroachment agreement condition,
whichever is greater.
            13.   If required, all right-of-way encroachment agreement(s) must
be granted by the approval authority prior to sign permit application. A copy
of any encroachment agreement and any conditions shall be attached to the sign
permit application.
            14.   The banner flag and pole or mast shall be maintained in good
repair. A flagpole with broken halyards shall not be used and banner flags
which are torn and frayed shall not be displayed.
   (C)   No freestanding sign may exceed five feet in height above the average
centerline grade of the public street toward which the sign is oriented, except
as provided below:
      (1)   Within any MI, MS, MO, MCG, MCH and/or CD Zoning District, no
freestanding sign may exceed 15 feet in height above the average centerline
grade of the public street toward which the sign is oriented, provided the sign
is set back not less than ten feet from the right-of-way of the public street;
or
      (2)   Within any CDF, CG, CN, CH, IU, PIU, I, PI, OR and/or O Zoning
District, no freestanding sign may exceed 25 feet in height above the average
centerline grade of the public street toward which the sign is oriented,
provided the sign is set back not less than ten feet from the right-of-way of
the public street.
   (D)   No sign shall be erected, maintained, painted or drawn on any tree,
rock, natural feature or utility pole. “Utility pole” shall include but not be
limited to any traffic-control, lighting, power, telephone or other similar
utility pole.
   (E)   No sign shall be erected or maintained so as to obstruct any fire
escape or any window or door or opening used as a required means of egress or
so as to prevent free passage from one part of a roof to any other part
thereof. No sign shall be attached in any form, shape or manner to a fire
escape or be placed in such a manner as to interfere with any opening required
for ventilation.
   (F)   No sign shall be erected or maintained which simulates or closely
resembles an official traffic-control or warning sign in such a manner as to,
or could in any way, confuse or mislead the traffic.
   (G)   No freestanding sign shall be permitted in sight distance areas as
defined in
Title 6, Chapter 2 of the Greenville City Code.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 97-85, §§ 1, 2, passed 8-14-
1997; Ord. No. 98-34, § 1, passed 3-12-1998; Ord. No. 06-76, § 2, passed 8-10-
2006; Ord. No. 10-44, §§ 1-4, 5-13-2010; Ord. No. 11-022, § 1, passed 5-12-
2011; Ord. 15-010, § 1, passed 2-12-2015; Ord. No. 20-016, § 5, passed 3-12-
2020)
SEC. 9-4-235 SIGN ILLUMINATION AND SIGNS CONTAINING LIGHTS; ELECTRONIC AND
MECHANICAL INTERCHANGEABLE SIGN FACE COPY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise prohibited by this article, signs may only be
illuminated in accordance with this section.
      (1)   Illumination, either internal or indirect, shall not be added to
nonconforming signs.
      (2)   No sign may contain or be illuminated by flashing or intermittent
lights or lights of changing degrees of intensity or color, except signs
indicating only time and/or date and/or temperature and except signs containing
electronic and/or mechanical interchangeable sign face copy in accordance with
subsection (B) below.
      (3)   Indirect illuminated sign light shall be shielded so that only the
face of the sign is illuminated and the light shall not shine directly into a
public or private street travel way, drive or parking area or into a
residential dwelling or premises.
      (4)   No indirectly illuminated sign shall be constructed or maintained
within 50 feet of any residential zone or dwelling unit in any zone.
      (5)   No illuminated sign shall imitate any traffic-control sign or
device or be located or utilized in any manner which may confuse or distract
the motoring public.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided by this article, signs may only contain
electronic and/or mechanical interchangeable sign face copy in accordance with
this section.
      (1)   Electronic and/or mechanical interchangeable sign face copy shall
not be added to nonconforming signs.
      (2)   No electronic and/or mechanical interchangeable sign face copy
shall be changed to include any new or different copy, color, intensity or
graphic representation, more than one time in any 60-second period. For
purposes of this section, all wall and/or freestanding signage associated with
any use or establishment shall be considered as a whole, and a change to any
electronic and/or mechanical sign face copy shall prohibit any change to any
other associated sign face copy until the expiration of the minimum 60-second
period required between changes as specified. The provisions of this subsection
shall not apply to time and/or date and/or temperature displays.
      (3)   Each allowed change of sign face copy shall be completed by one
continuous action or movement and the total duration of such action or movement
shall not exceed five total and continuous seconds.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 02-94, § 2, passed 9-12-2002;
Ord. No. 21-003, § 2, passed 1-19-2021)
SEC. 9-4-236 OFF-PREMISES ADVERTISING SIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The following additional standards and regulations shall apply to all
off-premises advertising signs.
      (1)   Off-premises advertising signs. Off-premises advertising signs
shall be permitted only within the CH, IU and I Zoning Districts or as provided
herein.
      (2)   Compliance.  No such signs shall be altered, expanded, enlarged or
replaced except in conformance with this section and section
9-4-225(C)(2).
      (3)   Removal of sign.  Where the premises or property upon which the
sign is erected is changed to another zone other than CH, IU or I, the sign
shall be removed within 90 days from the effective date of the change.
      (4)   Spacing. The minimum spacing requirement between each off-premises
advertising sign shall be 1,000 feet from the center of the sign.
      (5)   Size and height.
         (a)   Such signs shall not measure more than 400 square feet of total
sign area or display surface, and the display surface shall not be more than 12
feet in the vertical dimension nor greater than 40 feet in the horizontal. Copy
extensions of 120 or less shall not be included in the calculation of total
sign display surface area.
         (b)   A single side of a double face or V-type signs shall be regarded
as the total display surface for purposes of calculating total sign surface
area, provided the sides are separated by not more than 20 feet at any point.
         (c)   The top of the sign shall not exceed 35 feet in height
(exclusive of copy extensions) as measured from the surface elevation of the
ground or main roadway surface elevation nearest the sign, whichever is
highest.
         (d)   The minimum vertical clear distance between the property grade
and the bottom of the trim or other frame support shall be not less than 12
feet.
         (e)   All support structure(s) shall be painted in a neutral color to
blend with the surrounding area.
      (6)   Setback.
         (a)   The setback requirements shall be the same as set forth in the
CH, IU or I Districts for the front yard, side yard and rear yard setbacks;
provided, however, no sign shall be closer than ten feet to a side or rear
property line.
         (b)   All off-premises advertising signs shall be set back at least
300 feet from the nearest edge of a zoning boundary which describes property
zoned for residential purposes, including the R-6, R-6A, R-6S, R-6N, R-6MH, R-
9, R-9S, R-15S, RA-20, OR, CDF, MR and MRS Zoning Districts.
         (c)   No off-premises signs shall be located closer than 100 feet to
the intersection of two public streets.
         (d)   All setback requirements as set forth above shall be measured
from the extreme outermost edge of the sign as projected upon the ground and
measured from this ground point to the nearest property line or nearest zoning
district.
      (7)   Construction.
         (a)   All off-premises advertising signs shall be self-supporting
single-pole structures erected on or set into and permanently attached to
concrete foundations. The sign’s structure, electrical system and other
construction elements shall be designed and built according to the North
Carolina State Building Code as evidenced by engineering drawings drawn to
scale by a licensed engineer or architect. The signs shall be engineered to
withstand a wind loading of 36 pounds per square feet.
         (b)   Off-premises advertising signs shall be located and constructed
in such a way as to maintain horizontal and vertical clearance of all overhead
electrical conductors in accordance with the North Carolina State Building Code
and the National Electronic Code as incorporated therein; provided, that in no
case shall an outdoor advertising sign be erected with any part closer than ten
feet horizontally or vertically from any conductor or public utility guy wire.
      (8)   Additional requirements. The immediate premises shall be kept free
from debris or undergrowth. A landscaping plan shall be approved by the
Director of Planning and Development Services and shall be maintained on the
immediate premises by the sign owner. The landscaping shall consist of ground
cover, shrubs, trees or other permanent vegetation that will effectively screen
the sign’s base. For purposes of this article, the “immediate premises” shall
be defined as an area surrounding the sign’s structural support not less than
ten feet in all directions from the base.
      (9)   Off-premises signs. Off-premises signs shall not be included in or
count toward the total number of on-premises signs or the total sign surface
area allocation calculation for on-premises signs.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 95-29, § 10, passed 3-9-1995;
Ord. No. 97-85, §§ 1, 2, passed 8-14-1997; Ord. No. 02-63, § 3, passed 6-13-
2002; Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006)
   (B)   Exemptions. Any temporary poster panel off-premises sign may be
utilized to advertise a business, establishment, profession, service, event,
entertainment, condition or commodity that is located, manufactured, conducted,
sold or otherwise offered or provided on the lot of record where the sign is
constructed or displayed, provided all of the following:
      (1)   Such temporary poster panel off-premises sign(s) are rental signs
owned by a third party and leased to others for advertising as part of the
third party’s bona fide sign rental business;
      (2)   Such temporary poster panel off-premises sign(s) are either
conforming or legal (existing) nonconforming off-premises signs as regulated by
this article; and
      (3)   A zoning compliance permit for such use has been reviewed and
approved for each separate location. The purpose of this section is to ensure
that the subject sign structure and method of display is in compliance with
applicable requirements. There is otherwise no limitation on the frequency or
duration of any such display provided compliance with all the provisions of
this article.
(Ord. No. 02-63, § 4, passed 6-13-2002; Ord. No. 03-78, § 5, passed 8-14-2003;
Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 9-4-237 SIGNS THAT ARE NOT PERMITTED UNDER THE PROVISIONS OF THIS ARTICLE.
   Except as otherwise provided, the following signs are not permitted under
the provisions of this article:
   (A)   Kites or other similar devices;
   (B)   Balloons, except as otherwise provided under section
9-4-227(D)(2) of this article;
   (C)   Spotlights, except as otherwise provided under section
9-4-233(K)(1) of this article;
   (D)   Flags that exceed 100 square feet in surface area which are displayed
upon property that contain commercial use;
   (E)   Temporary signs other than as specified under section
9-4-227 of this article;
   (F)   Signs attached to radio or television towers or poles, including
satellite dish transmission or reception devices;
   (G)   Signs suspended between two structures or poles and supports by a
wire, rope or similar device including banners, except as otherwise provided
under section
9-4-233 of this article;
   (H)   Roof signs, except as otherwise provided under section
9-4-233(K)(3) of this article;
   (I)   Revolving signs;
   (J)   Flashing signs, except as otherwise provided under section
9-4-235 of this article;
   (K)   Strings or ribbons, tinsel, small flags and other similar devices; and
   (L)   Pinwheels, windmills or other similar devices.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 96-73, § 2, passed 8-8-1996;
Ord. No. 99-4, § 5, passed 1-14-1999; Ord. No. 99-152, § 2, passed 12-9-1999)
ARTICLE O. PARKING
SEC. 9-4-241 PURPOSE.
   (A)   (1)   The purpose of these regulations is to ensure proper and uniform
development of public and private parking and loading areas in the city and its
extraterritorial areas; to relieve traffic congestion in the streets; and to
minimize any detrimental effects of off-street parking areas on adjacent
properties.
      (2)   The purpose of these regulations is also to improve the visual
quality of parking areas by making them more pleasant, attractive, and
compatible with the surrounding environment; to ensure safe and efficient
operation of parking areas by clearly defining and delineating potential
circulation movements of motorists and pedestrians; and to improve air quality
and encourage energy conservation by moderating the microclimate of parking
lots.
   (B)   The requirements contained in these regulations shall be considered as
minimum standards.
   (C)   The owner, developer or operator of any existing or proposed use shall
evaluate anticipated needs to determine if they are greater than the minimum
requirements herein specified.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 2539, § 1, passed 11-12-1992)
SEC. 9-4-242 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIRED.
   No permit for new construction, expansion, development, occupancy or related
activity shall be issued for any use unless the use is in accordance with the
provisions of this article.
SEC. 9-4-243 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this article shall not apply to the following uses:
   (A)   Nonresidential land uses within the CD District; or
   (B)   Any proposed or existing principal use regardless of district which
meets all of the following conditions:
      (1)   Existing structure(s) cover 75 or more of the lot on which the
existing or proposed use is located;
      (2)   No expansion of any structure is proposed; and
      (3)   The maximum number of off-street parking spaces permitted by
conforming site layout are provided on the same lot as the principal use.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 94-156, § 13, passed 12-8-1994)
SEC. 9-4-244 PARKING PLAN REQUIRED.
    (A)   A parking plan which conforms to the provisions of this article shall
be submitted to the Director of Planning and Development Services or designee
for site plan review in accordance with the specific submission standards of
the Land Development Administration Manual which is incorporated herein by
reference.
   (B)   Parking plan approval shall be required prior to the approval of any
site plan, building permit, use permit, privilege license, change of use
permit, zoning compliance permit, temporary use permit or occupancy permit.
   (C)   The Director of Engineering shall have final approval authority
concerning the site design and construction standards of all off-street parking
lots.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006;
Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 9-4-245 BUFFERYARD SETBACKS AND VEGETATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Bufferyard setbacks shall be in accordance with Article G of this
chapter.
   (B)   Vegetation requirements shall be in accordance with Article P of this
chapter.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 96-22, § 1, passed 2-8-1996)
SEC. 9-4-246 COMBINATION OF REQUIRED PARKING SPACE.
   (A)   The required parking space for any number of separate uses may be
combined in one lot, but the required space assigned to one use may not be
assigned to another use, except that one-half of the parking space required for
churches, theaters, stadiums, assembly halls or any other use whose peak
attendance will be at night or on Sundays may be combined with a use which will
be closed or which will generate significantly less parking demands at night
and on Sundays than during normal business hours with prior approval by the
Director of Planning and Development Services.
   (B)   A use which is deficient in required parking spaces shall not
designate existing parking to any other use.
   (C)   When more than one use is included within any one lot or building, the
minimum number of required spaces shall be the sum total of all the individual
uses.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006;
Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 9-4-247 NONCONFORMING PARKING; EXPANSION OF FLOOR AREA, OTHER UNITS OF
MEASUREMENT.
   When a building or use deficient in off-street parking spaces by virtue of
these regulations is increased in floor area, number of dwelling units, seating
capacity, number of participants or employees, addition of secondary principal
or accessory use or any other unit of measurement used to calculate required
parking, one of the following shall apply:
   (A)   Where the increase is 50% or less of the original measurement,
additional parking spaces shall be provided to meet the requirements of this
article as if the increase or addition were a new and separate use;
   (B)   Where the increase is more than 50% of the original measurement,
additional parking spaces shall be provided to make all combined existing and
proposed uses conform to the requirements of this article.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-248 SURFACE MATERIAL REQUIREMENT; FRONT YARD AREA COVERAGE.
   (A)   All parking areas, except as provided herein, shall be constructed
with a hard surfaced all-weather material such as asphalt, concrete, brick,
CABC or any other approved materials. The parking area shall be maintained in a
safe, sanitary and neat condition. All spaces shall be marked clearly to be
recognizable to the general public. For purposes of these requirements, the
following surfaces and areas shall not qualify as an approved parking surface
or parking area:
      (1)   Grass and bare earth areas; or
      (2)   Porches, stoops, stairs and landings, roofs, access ramps, fire
escapes, decks, balconies, building ledges, improved walkways, sidewalks,
greenway easements and exterior mechanical equipment.
   (B)   Parking areas serving individual single-family dwellings shall meet
the surface material requirement of subsection (A) above; provided, however,
the City Engineer shall be authorized to exempt the parking area(s) for
specific dwellings from the surface material and front yard coverage
requirement of this section when in his or her opinion all of the following
conditions are found to exist:
      (1)   The parking area(s) are clearly defined and/or marked;
      (2)   The parking area(s) are maintained in a safe, sanitary and neat
condition;
      (3)   The parking area(s) do not contribute to or increase soil erosion;
and
      (4)   The location and dimension of the parking area(s) are traditionally
and customarily associated with the subject dwelling.
   (C)   Temporary uses shall be exempt from the surface material requirement.
   (D)   Except as further provided, parking areas for single-family dwellings
shall not cover more than 30% of any front yard area. Residential cluster
development approved pursuant to Article M of this chapter, shall be exempt
from the maximum parking area coverage requirement of this subsection.
   (E)   Parking areas for two-family attached development or conversion shall
not cover more than 40% of any front yard area. When a two-family attached
dwelling structure is subdivided into two separate parcels the original
development lot total front yard area shall be utilized to calculate parking
area coverage.
   (F)   Parking, storage and/or maneuvering of vehicles, boats, trailers,
campers and the like shall not be permitted within any front and/or side yard
area except as provided by this section.
   (G)   Notwithstanding the provisions related to nonconforming situations
contained in Article C of this chapter, the requirements contained herein shall
be applicable to all existing and future required or proposed parking areas.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 2423, § 3, passed 2-13-1992;
Ord. No. 2539, § 2, passed 11-12-1992; Ord. No. 99-6, § 1, passed 1-14-1999;
Ord. No. 10-67, § 1, passed 8-12-2010)
SEC. 9-4-249 CROSS-DISTRICT PARKING.
   Pursuant to section
9-4-250(A), any parking area(s) and/or driveway(s) utilized in conjunction with
any use, whether required or otherwise, which is located wholly or partly
within a zoning district which is different than the zoning district in which
the principal use is located, may be permitted in accordance with the
following.
   (A)   Parking and driveways for residential uses and nonresidential uses
permitted in residential zoning districts shall be permitted in residential
zoning districts which allow the specific use and in all nonresidential zoning
districts.
   (B)   Parking and driveways for nonresidential uses shall be permitted in
all nonresidential zoning districts and prohibited in all residential zoning
districts, except as provided in subsection (A) above.
   (C)   Parking within the MCG District shall be subject to the additional
requirements set out under section
9-4-254.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 94-77, § 2, passed 5-12-1994;
Ord. No. 97-85, §§ 1, 2, passed 8-14-1997)
SEC. 9-4-250 PARKING AREA LOCATION CRITERIA.
   (A)   All uses, except as provided in subsections (B) and (C) below, shall
provide off-street parking on the same parcel of land as the use it is intended
to serve. For purposes of this section, “common areas” within townhouse,
condominium or planned center projects shall be construed as meaning the same
parcel of land. Parking permitted within the right-of-way of a public street
shall not be considered to fulfill or partially fulfill the minimum parking
requirements.
   (B)   Remote parking may be allowed for any use which cannot provide parking
on the same parcel of land as the principal use, provided the use complies with
all of the following requirements:
      (1)   The use does not comply with the current on-site parking
requirement;
      (2)   No new construction, expansion or enlargement of the existing or
proposed use is requested which would intensify or create an on-site
nonconforming parking situation;
      (3)   The existing on-site parking facility cannot be improved to conform
with current requirements; and
      (4)   The remote parking facility shall comply with subsection (D) below.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Churches are exempt from subsection (B)(2) above, provided that 50%
of the required parking spaces shall be located on the same parcel of land as
the principal use.
      (2)   City municipal government building or use and county government
building or use are exempt from subsection (B)(2) above.
   (D)   Remote parking facilities shall conform to the following standards.
      (1)   Except as further provided, no portion of the remote parking
facility shall be located more than 400 feet from the associated principal use
site. Dormitory development in the CD District and multi-family development in
the CD District shall be subject to section
9-4-86(MM)(6) of this chapter.
      (2)   The remote parking facility shall not be utilized or occupied by
any other use or for any purpose other than as parking for the associated
principal use.
      (3)   The remote parking facility shall be located within a district
which permits the associated principal use or within a district which allows
principal use parking lots.
      (4)   Where the associated principal use is listed as being subject to
special use permit approval of the Board of Adjustment, Planning and Zoning
Commission or City Council, the proposed remote parking facility for the
principal use shall be considered an expansion of the principal use and the
expansion shall be subject to such approval.
      (5)   The person, firm or corporation which controls, owns or operates
the principal use shall have recorded in the Pitt County Register of Deeds an
estate in real property sufficient to guarantee exclusive use of the remote
parking site for the life of the principal use. The instrument shall be
prepared prior to approval of any permit and no occupancy shall be allowed
until the instrument has been duly recorded.
      (6)   If the parcel which contains the remote parking facility is
disposed of, or committed to some other use which displaces the parking
required by this article, then the certificate of occupancy for the principal
use shall be revoked.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 97-26, § 1, passed 3-13-1997;
Ord. No. 09-59, § 2, passed 8-13-2009)
SEC. 9-4-251 IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   All off-street parking areas designed for two or less spaces shall
meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Shall be surfaced in accordance with section
9-4-248;
      (2)   Shall conform to the minimum standards in accordance with the
Manual of Standards, Designs and Details;
      (3)   Shall have adequate ingress and egress. All uses, excluding single-
family detached, two-family attached (duplex) and multi-family unit ownership
lots where the lots obtain individual driveway access from an approved private
street, shall be subject to subsection (B) family unit ownership lots” shall
include only residential townhouse divisions approved and recorded pursuant to
the subdivision regulations;
      (4)   All entrances and exits shall conform to the driveway regulations
of the city or the state, whichever is more restrictive;
      (5)   Shall be in accordance with the provisions of Article G and Article
L;
      (6)   Driveways shall be considered as providing off-street parking for
residential development in accordance with subsection (A)(3) above and subject
to the following standards.
         (a)   The area to which the driveway approach provides access shall be
designed to store any vehicles using the driveway completely off the right-of-
way and must be of sufficient dimension to allow the necessary functions to be
carried out completely on private property within the designated parking area.
Parking and/or maneuvering of vehicles shall not be permitted within any
greenway, pedestrian access or bikeway easement, sidewalk and the like.
         (b)   Minimum length of any two-family attached (duplex) or multi-
family unit ownership lot driveway shall not be less than 36 feet, as measured
on center, from the street right-of-way or easement line to the end of pavement
or curb stop of the longest section. The depth of an associated and qualified
garage parking surface or approved carport shall count toward this requirement.
Minimum length of any driveway located within a residential cluster
development, approved pursuant to Article M of this chapter, shall not be less
than 18-1/2 feet in the case of a driveway arranged to provide side-by-side or
off-set (separated) parking, or 36 feet in the case of a driveway designed for
stacked parking only.
         (c)   Single vehicle garages shall be considered as one parking space
for purposes of this article, provided the garage has an inside parking surface
dimension of not less than 12 feet wide by 18 feet deep.
         (d)   Double or greater vehicle garages shall be considered as one and
one-half parking space for purposes of this article, provided the garage has an
inside parking surface dimension of not less than 22 feet wide by 18 feet deep.
         (e)   Spaces for two-family attached (duplex) or multi-family unit
ownership lots shall be arranged to accommodate side-by-side or off-set
(separated) parking, and stacked parking shall not be considered as fulfilling
the minimum parking space requirements. Nothing shall prohibit stacked parking
in excess of the minimum, provided there is compliance with all other
requirements.
      (7)   All off-street parking areas shall be separated from walkways,
sidewalks, bikeways, streets or any dedicated right-of-way. To prevent vehicles
from driving across these areas, except at an approved driveway approach, and
to prevent parking or maneuvering vehicles from overhanging upon such areas,
there shall be a six-inch raised curb or stop bar constructed between such
areas and the parking area; and
      (8)   All off-street parking areas located upon property developed for
residential uses and providing access to residents or the general public
located in the area of special flood hazard as defined in section 9-6-2 shall
be required to be elevated such that the lowest point in the parking area is no
less than one foot below the 100- year flood elevation or no lower than the
highest accessible point on the adjacent public street providing access to the
site which shall be the point of entry between the development and the public
street unless access is required to be provided internally. If access is
provided internally through an adjacent site no point in the parking lot shall
be below the lowest point along the access route to the public street.
   (B)   All off-street parking areas designed from three or more spaces shall
meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Shall be surfaced in accordance with section
9-4-248;
      (2)   Shall conform to the minimum standards in accordance with the
Manual of Standards, Design and Details;
      (3)   Shall be in accordance with the provisions of Article G and Article
L;
      (4)   Sight distance requirements as set forth in
Title 6, Chapter 2 of the Greenville City Code shall be observed;
      (5)   All entrances and exits shall conform to the driveway regulations
of the city or the state, whichever is more restrictive;
      (6)   All parking areas will be adequately drained in accordance with the
storm drainage regulations set forth by the city;
      (7)   All parking areas shall be so arranged that ingress and egress is
by forward motion of the vehicle only. Parking bays shall be exempt from this
provision;
      (8)   Each off-street parking space for each use shall be within 150 feet
of the use it is intended to serve, except as provided by the remote parking
facility standards’ listed under section
9-4-250(D), above;
      (9)   No parking space shall be located closer than 15 feet to a dwelling
structure;
      (10)   Parking areas shall be designed with careful regard to orderly
arrangement and topography, and shall, to the greatest extent possible, be
integrated naturally into its physical setting;
      (11)   All uses shall provide off-street parking on the same parcel of
land as the use it is intended to serve, provided however, parking may be
allowed within parking bays located on private streets;
      (12)   One-third of the required spaces may be in parking bays within the
easements of private streets, except on the turnaround portion of a cul-de-sac,
provided that:
         (a)   Any bay shall contain no more than ten spaces;
         (b)   Each bay shall be separated from any other bay by a distance of
at least ten feet;
         (c)   No more than one-fourth of the total frontage on any private
street shall be devoted to parking bays; and
         (d)   Parking bays directly adjoining private streets will be
permitted one side of the street at a time only. The parking areas may be
alternated from one side of the street to the other.
      (13)   No parking space shall be utilized for dead storage, repair work
or other similar activity;
      (14)   All off-street parking areas shall be separated from walkways,
sidewalks, bikeways, streets or any dedicated right-of-way, to prevent vehicles
from driving across these areas, except at an approved driveway approach, and
to prevent parked or maneuvering vehicles from overhanging upon such areas.
There shall be a six-inch raised curb or stop bar constructed between such
areas and the parking area;
      (15)   Parking areas so designed to serve ten or more vehicles may
designate a maximum of 25% of the spaces for use by compact cars only. These
spaces shall conform to the requirements as set forth in the Manual of
Standards, Designs and Details under “Minimum Parking Standards (Compacts
Only).” These spaces shall be identified in a manner which will prohibit its
occupancy by any larger vehicle;
      (16)   Parking areas so designed to serve ten or more vehicles, may
reduce the required number of spaces by 10%, to a maximum reduction of three
spaces, where off-street parking or storage of nonmotorized vehicles is
provided at a rate of ten nonmotorized spaces per motorized space reduced.
Nonmotorized spaces shall be conveniently located in relation to the assigned
use;
      (17)   Where two rows or more of parking spaces are designated within the
interior of any parking area, curb or elevated wheel stops shall be provided at
every second bay or every fourth row of stalls extending the length or depth of
the bay or stall. The wheel stop shall be at least four inches in height, six
inches in depth (average) and six feet in length. The wheel stops shall be
anchored in place by a method approved by the City Engineer. Each curb or
elevated wheel stop separating one row of parking stalls from another shall be
separated by an open space area at least five feet in width. The open spaces
shall not contain asphalt, concrete or any other impervious surface except as
further provided. General (public/customer) pedestrian cross walkways shall be
allowed to cross the open space areas within a six-foot strip as measured
perpendicular to the parking surface. Any two walkways shall be separated by
not less than 50 feet as measured from center of walkway to center of walkway.
General (public/customer) pedestrian sidewalks and the like shall be allowed
within the open space area provided the total width of the required open space
is increased in direct proportion to the width of any impervious encroachment
(s);
      (18)   All internal and external traffic signs, markings and devices
shall conform to the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices or to North
Carolina Department of Transportation standards;
      (19)   All off-street parking areas for buildings that are subject to the
North Carolina State Building Code, Volume I, General Construction, shall
comply with all of the requirements set forth therein including those for
parking spaces for the physically handicapped; and
      (20)   All off-street parking areas located upon property developed for
residential uses and providing access to residents or the general public
located in the area of special flood hazard as defined in section 9-6-2 shall
be required to be elevated such that the lowest point in the parking area is no
less than one foot below the 100- year flood elevation or no lower than the
highest accessible point on the adjacent public street providing access to the
site which shall be the point of entry between the development and the public
street, unless access is required to be provided internally. If access is
provided internally through an adjacent site, no point in the parking lot shall
be below the lowest point along the access route to the public street.
   (C)   Off-street loading areas shall be provided as follows:
      (1)   Every commercial and industrial use, except those located in the CD
District, shall provide space for off-street loading and unloading of delivery,
shipment or transport vehicles.
      (2)   Space designated for compliance with off-street parking
requirements shall not be used to comply with these requirements and vice-
versa.
      (3)   Off-street loading area dimensions shall be at minimum, 12 feet by
30 with a vertical clearance of 16 feet above the finished grade of the space.
      (4)   Space(s) shall be designed and located such that a delivery,
shipment or transport vehicle can safely maneuver by means of not more than two
continuous movements. All movements shall be made completely on private
property outside any public street right-of-way.
      (5)   The required number of off-street loading spaces shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Retail use: one space for each 5,000 square feet of floor space
or major fraction thereof, not to exceed two spaces.
         (b)   Wholesale and industrial uses: one space for each 10,000 square
feet of floor space or major fraction thereof, not to exceed three spaces.
      (6)   For purposes of this section, “major fraction” shall constitute
51%.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 2539, § 5, passed 11-12-1992;
Ord. No. 2724, §§ 1, 2, passed 10-14-1993; Ord. No. 94-156, § 14, passed 12-8-
1994; Ord. No. 95-78, § 2, passed 8-10-1995; Ord. No. 95-114, § 1, passed 11-9-
1995; Ord. No. 95-115, § 1, passed 11-9-1995; Ord. No. 00-19, § 13, passed 2-
10-2000)
SEC. 9-4-252 SCHEDULE OF REQUIRED PARKING SPACES.
   Off-street parking spaces shall be provided for all land uses in the
following proportions:
Use Required spaces
Use                                     Required spaces
Airport, bus station, train station and 1 space per 4 seating accommodations
the like                                for waiting passengers, plus 1 space
                                        per 2 employees
                                        1 space per 300 storage feet of non-
Athletic, sports recreation, or similar storage area, plus 1 space per
health club                             employee, plus required spaces for
                                        associated uses such as lounges,
                                        restaurants and the like
Auditorium, civic center, coliseum and  1 space per 8 seats in the largest
the like                                assembly area
                                        1 space per 2 employees, plus 3 storage
Auto, truck or boat repair              spaces for each repair stall (the
                                        repair stalls may count as spaces)
Auto wash                               1 space per employee, plus 1 space in
                                        addition to each wash bay
Automobile sales                        1 space per 400 square feet of show
                                        room area devoted to sales
Banks, savings and loans, and similar   1 space per 300 feet of gross floor
financial institutions with drive       area, plus 1 space per 2 employees,
through facilities                      plus storage space for 3 vehicles per
                                        drive through window
Banks, savings and loans, and similar   1 space per 200 feet of gross floor
financial institutions without drive-   area, plus 1 space for each 2 employees
through facilities
                                        1 space for every 50 square feet of
                                        activity area, including any dining
Bar                                     area, hallway, foyer, dance floor, bar
                                        and other area accessible by the
                                        patrons of the establishment
Barber or beauty shop; principal or     2 spaces per barber, beautician or
accessory use                           other employee
                                        3 spaces per lane, plus requirements
Bowling alley                           for any associated use, such as a
                                        lounge, restaurant and the like
Church or similar place of worship      1 space per 5 seats in the main
                                        congregation area
Civic or fraternal organization         1 space per 100 square feet of floor
                                        area used for assembly
Clubhouse or recreation buildings and   1 space per 500 square feet of building
the like, in conjunction with pool area area and swimming
when applicable residential uses
Commercial recreation and amusements    1 space per 3 customary units of
outdoor, driving range, miniature golf  measurement for the particular use,
and the like                            plus 10 spaces for waiting, plus 1
                                        space per 2 employees
Commercial recreation-indoor, skating   1 space per 200 feet of activity area
rinks, pool halls and the like
                                        1 space for every 50 square feet of
                                        activity area, including any dining
Dining and entertainment establishment  area, hallway, foyer, dance floor, bar
                                        and other area accessible by the
                                        patrons of the establishment
Dormitories for technical schools,      0.75 space per bed
colleges and universities
                                        1 space per 300 square feet of gross
Dry cleaning or laundry establishment   floor area and storage space for 3
                                        vehicles at each drive through window
Dwelling, mobile home                   Per Article H
Dwelling, single-family                 2 spaces
Dwelling, two-family attached (duplex)  4 spaces
Emotional or physical rehabilitation    1 space per bed or resident, plus 1.5
facility                                spaces per 2 employees, plus 1 space
                                        per staff or visiting doctor
Family care home                        1 space for every 3 resident clients,
                                        plus 1 space per resident attendant
                                        1 space per employee, plus 1 space per
Flea market or farmer’s market        100 square feet of covered sales area
                                        or 1 space per 4 vendors whichever is
                                        greater
Fraternity or sorority, when associated
with a technical school, college or     1 space per resident
university
                                        1 space for each 4 seats in every
Funeral home/mortuary                   assembly room or chapel, plus a minimum
                                        of 5 for funeral vehicles, plus 1 space
                                        per 2 employees
Furniture and appliance store           1 space per 600 square feet of display
                                        area
                                        1.5 spaces per individual pump (the
Gasoline or automotive fuel sales,      service stall for each pump may count
convenience store; retail               as 1 space), plus 1 space per 300
                                        square feet of non-storage retail area
Golf course; regulation and Par 3       3 spaces per hole, plus requirements
                                        for any associated use
Group care home, nursing home,          1 space for each 3 residents, plus 1
convalescent home, rest home            space for each 2 employees on the shift
                                        of greatest employment
                                        1 space in addition to the residential
Home occupation                         requirement, except for barber, beauty
                                        and hair styling shops
                                        1 space for each bed, plus 1 for each 2
Hospital                                employees, plus 1 space for each staff
                                        or visiting doctor
Housing designed for and used by        Three-fourths space for each dwelling
elderly                                 unit
                                        1.5 spaces per 2 employees, plus 1
                                        space per managerial personnel, plus 1
Industrial or manufacturing, warehouse, visitor parking space per 10 managerial
wholesale, not otherwise listed         personnel, plus 1 space per vehicle
                                        used in the conduct of business plus 1
                                        space per 400 square feet of wholesale
                                        floor area
                                        1 space per employee, plus 1 space per
Kindergarten, nursery, child day care,  500 square feet of floor area, plus 4
adult day care                          parking spaces for loading and
                                        unloading persons
Land use intensity (LUI) developments   Per Article K
Laundry establishment, self service     1 space per 2 pieces of central
                                        equipment
Library, museum, art center             1 space per 3 seating accommodations
Master Plan Community (MPC) and/or
Planned Unit Development (PUD)          Per Article J
residential, social or recreational and
residential accessory uses
Medical, dental or similar clinic       5 spaces per practicing physician or
                                        dentist and 1 space per other employee
                                        1.5 spaces per 2 teaching or
Medical school, and the like            administrative personnel, plus 5 spaces
                                        per classroom
Mini storage warehouses                 5 spaces, plus 1 space per 100 units
Mobile home sales                       5 spaces, plus 1 space per 10,000
                                        square feet of lot area
                                        1 space per unit, plus 1 space per 2
Motel/hotel                             employees, plus requirements for any
                                        other associated use such as a
                                        restaurant, lounge and the like
Multi-family                            Per Article I
Office building                         1 space per 300 square feet of
                                        nonstorage floor area
                                        1 space per 400 square feet of gross
Post office                             floor area, plus 1 space per 2
                                        employees, plus 1 space for each mail
                                        route vehicle
Public utility building                 1 space per employee
                                        1.5 spaces per 2 employees, plus 1
Public utility, customer service        space per company vehicle, plus 1 space
                                        per 300 square foot of customer service
                                        area
Restaurant or establishment dispersing  1 space per 3 seats, plus 1 space per 2
food, drink and refreshments without    employees
drive-through service
                                        1 space per 3 seats, plus 1 space per 2
Restaurant with drive-through service   employees, plus a minimum of 6 spaces
                                        for exclusive vehicle storage for
                                        drive-through service
Retail, commercial or personal sales    1 space per 200 square feet of
and service, not otherwise listed       nonstorage floor area
Room renting, rooming house, boarding   1 space per person in addition to the
house                                   residential requirement
                                        1 space per 2 employees plus safe and
School; elementary or junior high       convenient off-street loading and
                                        unloading facilities for students
                                        5 spaces for administrative offices,
                                        plus 1 space for each 2 employees, plus
School; senior high                     5 spaces per classroom, plus 1 space
                                        per 10 seats in the largest assembly
                                        area or gymnasium
Shopping centers; general            1 space per 200 square feet of nonstora
                                        ge retail floor area
Stadium                                 1 space per 8 seats
Theaters                                1 space per 4 seats in the viewing area
Tobacco warehouse                       1 space per 5,000 square feet of gross
                                        floor area
 
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 96-75, § 1, passed 8-8-1996;
Ord. No. 97-132, § 1, passed 12-11-1997; Ord. No. 09-27, §§ 11, 12, passed 4-9-
2009; Ord. No. 09-99, § 2, 12-10-2009; Ord. No. 14-074, 1, passed 11-13-2014)
SEC. 9-4-253 UNLISTED USES.
   (A)   Where a particular use or class of use is not listed under the
schedule of required parking spaces in section
9-4-252, the Director of Planning and Development Services shall determine the
minimum number of spaces to be required in each individual case. In reaching
this determination, the Director of Planning and Development Services shall be
guided by the requirements for similar uses, the number and type of vehicles
and/or persons likely to be attracted to the proposed use and studies of the
parking requirements in other jurisdictions.
   (B)   Appeal from this decision shall be made to the Board of Adjustment in
the nature of an interpretation.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006;
Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 9-4-254 ADDITIONAL PARKING STANDARDS FOR CERTAIN SPECIFIC USES.
   Within any MCG District all required parking spaces for all permitted or
special uses shall be located within the MCG District; provided, however,
additional accessory parking spaces in excess of required minimums and all
driveways shall be permitted in all nonresidential zoning districts.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 2423, § 4, passed 2-13-1992;
Ord. No. 2539, §§ 3, 4, passed 11-12-1992; Ord. No. 94-77, § 3, passed 5-12-
1994; Ord. No. 97-85, §§ 1, 2, passed 8-14-1997; Ord. No. 99-6, § 2 and 3,
passed 1-14-1999)
SEC. 9-4-255 PARKING STANDARDS SPECIFIC TO THE UNIVERSITY NEIGHBORHOOD
REVITALIZATION INITIATIVE (UNRI) OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   Within a University Neighborhood Revitalization Initiative Overlay District,
in addition to the other requirements of this article, the following provisions
shall be applicable:
   (A)   Single family dwellings and two family attached dwelling units shall
be limited to the parking and/or storage of four vehicles, boats, trailers,
campers and the like total per dwelling unit on the subject lot. This
requirement is not intended to limit the occasional parking of guests.
   (B)   Screening of the rear yard shall be required when more than one
vehicle, boat, trailer, camper and the like total are parked and/or stored in
the rear yard and are visible from adjoining properties on the side and rear of
the subject lot.
   (C)   Screening requirements can be satisfied by either a fence at least six
feet in height that creates a complete visual barrier from adjoining properties
or with evergreen vegetative materials that are three feet in height at the
time of planting and will reach a height of six feet and create a complete
visual barrier from adjoining properties within two years of planting.
Vegetation materials listed in §
9-4-267(C)(3),(5) and (7) shall be utilized to satisfy screening requirements
of this section. The property owner shall be responsible for maintaining all
vegetation required by this section in a healthy condition. Any dead, unhealthy
or missing vegetation shall be replaced. Replacement shall occur at the
earliest suitable planting season.
   (D)   Rear yard parking and/or storage areas shall be constructed of an all-
weather material such as asphalt, concrete, brick, CABC or other materials
approved by the City Engineer and rear yard parking and/or storage areas shall
be connected to the front and/or side yard parking and/or storage areas by a
driveway constructed of an all-weather material such as asphalt, concrete,
brick, CABC or other materials approved by the City Engineer.
   (E)   Rear yard parking and/or storage areas shall be contained and
delineated by a barrier at least six inches in height.
   (F)   Notwithstanding the provisions related to nonconforming situations
contained in Article C of this chapter, the requirements contained herein shall
be applicable to all existing and future required or proposed parking areas.
   (G)   The exemption provided in §
9-4-243 (B) shall not apply to the University Neighborhood Revitalization
Initiative Overlay District.
   (H)   The exemption provided in §
9-4-248 (B) shall not apply to rear yard parking areas in the University
Neighborhood Revitalization Initiative Overlay District.
(Ord. No. 13-037, § 1, passed 9-12-2013)
ARTICLE P. VEGETATION REQUIREMENTS
SEC. 9-4-260 PURPOSE.
   (A)   To create a better quality of living for the community by encouraging
the preservation of existing vegetation and to stabilize the environment’s
ecological balance;
   (B)   To help reduce the negative impact of glare, noise, trash mitigation,
odors, air pollution, excessive heat, overcrowding, lack of privacy and visual
disorders when incompatible land uses adjoin one another; and
   (C)   To promote and preserve the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. No. 95-112, § 1, passed 10-9-1995)
SEC. 9-4-261 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The requirements contained herein are a combination of site
vegetation, parking/drive area vegetation and screening and bufferyard
screening vegetation.
   (B)   The provisions contained herein shall not apply to those properties
located within the CD Downtown Commercial Zoning District and as further
provided.
   (C)   The provisions contained herein shall not apply to the Pitt/Greenville
Airport Authority property and the Pitt County Detention Center property.
   (D)   The provisions contained herein shall apply only to those uses having
a land use classification number of 2 or more, in accordance with Article D,
section
9-4-78 and
Appendix A of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 95-112, § 1, passed 10-9-1995; Ord. No. 98-144, § 1, passed 11-12-
1998)
SEC. 9-4-262 PRELIMINARY AND FINAL VEGETATION PLAN REQUIRED; APPROVAL; TIMING
OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Prior to the issuance of any permit or the granting of any other
approval the applicant shall receive approval of a preliminary vegetation plan
which denotes the category (i.e., large tree, small tree, shrub) and number of
all required vegetation materials and which illustrates the location of
qualified existing and proposed materials within the available and adequate
open spaces where the materials may be located in accordance with this article.
Preliminary vegetation plans shall not require plant material identification by
scientific or common name.
   (B)   The preliminary vegetation plan shall indicate the following site data
and notes:
      (1)   Site data.
         (a)   Total per acre requirement by category.
         (b)   Total street tree requirement by category for each public and/or
private street frontage.
         (c)   Total screening requirement by category for each individual
bufferyard.
         (d)   Proposed vegetation by category and total number of materials to
be located within each individual public utility or drainage easement.
      (2)   Notes.
         (a)   Minimum plant sizes shall be in accordance with the zoning
regulations as follows:
 
Planting Material Type Minimum Planting Size
1.   Large tree      
      single stem10 feet (height) and 2-inch caliper
      multi-stem 10 feet (height)
2.   Small tree     8 feet (height) and 1-1/2-inch caliper
3.   Shrub          18 inches (height), except as provided under section
                       9-4-267
 
         (b)   Existing substitute vegetation materials have been noted
including their specific location(s), type(s) and size(s).
         (c)   No portion of any parking area, including any driveway, parking
space, drive isle or turning area, shall be located more than 30 feet from an
on-site small tree or more than 75 feet from an on-site large tree. For
purposes of this section, the measurement shall be from the farthest edge of
the subject area to the center of the base of the closest qualifying tree.
         (d)   Site plan approval from the respective easement holder shall be
construed as approval of all noted and/or illustrated encroachments as shown on
this plan.
   (C)   The preliminary vegetation plan shall be submitted for review at the
time of original submission of any site plan required pursuant to Article R of
this chapter. Preliminary vegetation plan approval shall be required in
conjunction with site plan approval prior to the issuance of any building
permit.
   (D)   Preliminary and final vegetation plans indicating proposed and
existing materials shall require approval of the Director of Planning and
Development Services, or authorized representative.
   (E)   Temporary certificates of occupancy may be issued following approval
of a preliminary vegetation plan prior to the installation of required
vegetation materials.
   (F)   Except as further provided under subsection (G) below, prior to
issuance of a final occupancy permit all vegetation materials required by this
article shall be in place and written certification from the installer stating
that the vegetation has been installed in accordance with the approved
preliminary plan and applicable requirements shall be submitted to the Director
of Planning and Development Services, or authorized representative. This
written certification shall include a final vegetation plan indicating the
preliminary vegetation plan site data, material type(s), common plant name(s)
and the specific location of all installed and/or existing qualified materials.
The final vegetation plan shall be indicated on an approved site plan. Written
certification shall serve as a request for inspection. Full compliance with the
requirements contained herein shall be the responsibility of the property owner
and approval by the city of any materials installed or the issuance of any
permit shall not release the property owner from the responsibility. No final
occupancy permit shall be issued prior to inspection and approval of the
required materials and improvements, except as further provided.
   (G)   (1)   A final occupancy permit may be issued prior to installation of
required materials in accordance with this section.
      (2)   Where vegetation materials would otherwise be required to be
installed between May 1 and October 1 the installation may, at the option of
the owner, be delayed; provided, however, the materials shall be installed not
later than November 1 of that same year. Request for the delay shall be made by
the property owner, on forms supplied by the city, to the Director of Planning
and Development Services, or authorized representative, prior to the issuance
of any final occupancy permit. Failure to install all required materials and to
provide written certification of their installation on or before November 1
shall constitute a violation of the zoning regulations.
   (H)   Installation of vegetation improvements may be phased to coincide with
construction of site improvements provided the phasing is set forth on the
preliminary vegetation plan. Phasing shall be subject to approval of the
Director of Planning and Development Services on a case-by-case basis.
(Ord. No. 95-112, § 1, passed 10-9-1995; Ord. No. 96-90, § 1, passed 9-12-1996;
Ord. No. 98-144, §§ 2, 3, 4, passed 11-12-1998; Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-
10-2006; Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 9-4-263 SITE VEGETATION MATERIAL REQUIREMENTS (PER ACRE).
   (A)   (1)   For purposes of this article the total gross acreage of a lot or
tract carried to one decimal point (0.0) shall be multiplied by each of the
following minimum requirements to determine the minimum site vegetation:
         (a)   Five large trees;
         (b)   Ten small trees; and
         (c)   Twenty-five shrubs.
      (2)   However, no lot or tract regardless of size (acreage), shall have
less than the following minimum site vegetation:
         (a)   One large tree;
         (b)   Ten small trees; and
         (c)   Fifteen shrubs.
   (B)   The minimum requirements listed under subsection (A) above, shall be
in addition to any screening requirements which may apply per section
9-4-266 of this article and the evergreen hedge option set forth under section
9-4-119, Article G of this chapter.
   (C)   Street yard vegetation may count toward and be considered part of the
minimum requirements listed under subsection (A) above; provided, however,
where the site vegetation material requirement is less than the street yard
vegetation installation requirement set forth under section
9-4-268(K) of this article, additional materials shall be provided to ensure
compliance with section
9-4-268(K).
   (D)   Parking area vegetation may count toward and be considered part of the
minimum requirements listed under subsection (A) above, provided all other
requirements of section
9-4-268(L) of this article are met.
   (E)   The area within any public street right-of-way or private street
easement shall not be included in the calculation of total gross acreage.
   (F)   The area within any public utility easement, public drainage easement
or other public easement, wherein the owner is prohibited from locating
required materials in accordance with section
9-4-268(B) of this article, shall not be included in the calculation of total
gross acreage.
(Ord. No. 95-112, § 1, passed 10-9-1995; Ord. No. 98-144, § 5, 6, passed 11-12-
1998)
SEC. 9-4-264 VEGETATION QUALIFICATION STANDARDS; PLANT SIZE.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, all plant materials shall meet the
following minimum size standards at the time of planting and/or qualification
in the case of existing materials:
 
Planting Material Type Minimum Planting Size
1.   Large tree      
      single stem10 feet (height) and 2-inch caliper
      multi-stem 10 feet (height)
2.   Small tree     8 feet (height) and 1-1/2-inch caliper
3.   Shrub          18 inches (height), except as provided under section
                       9-4-267
 
   (B)   Caliper measurements shall be taken at six inches above grade.
   (C)   For purposes of this section the minimum size of all plants shall be
an approximate measurement; provided, however, the intent of this section shall
be to ensure that materials are generally in compliance with the required
standards.
(Ord. No. 95-112, § 1, passed 10-9-1995; Ord. No. 96-6, § 1, passed 1-11-1996)
SEC. 9-4-265 VEGETATION MATERIAL (CATEGORY) SUBSTITUTION; INSTALLED AND/OR
EXISTING.
   (A)   Any plant material which otherwise specifically satisfies the
requirements of this article may count toward satisfying all the requirements.
   (B)   One large tree may substitute for two small trees or five shrubs.
   (C)   One small tree may substitute for three shrubs.
   (D)   (1)   Healthy, existing or transplanted large trees may substitute for
required vegetation in accordance with the following:
         (a)   Each two-inch or more caliper, but less than six-inch caliper,
large tree (ten-foot minimum height) may substitute for one large tree or two
small trees or five shrubs;
         (b)   Each six-inch or more caliper, but less than ten-inch caliper,
large tree may substitute for one and one-half large trees or three small trees
or six shrubs;
         (c)   Each ten-inch or more caliper, but less than 24-inch caliper,
large tree may substitute for two large trees or four small trees or eight
shrubs; and
         (d)   Each 24-inch or more caliper large tree may substitute for three
large trees or five small trees or ten shrubs.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, when a substitution allowance results
in a fraction of a number, then the fraction shall be disregarded and the
substitution allowance shall be to the next lower whole number.
      (3)   In cases where the trunk of the tree(s) is not accessible for
measurement, a minimum height requirement of 30 feet may substitute for the
minimum diameter requirements in the case of subsections (D)(1)(a), (b) and (c)
above, and a minimum height of 40 feet may substitute for the minimum diameter
requirement in the case of subsection (D)(1)(d) above.
   (E)   For each existing six-inch-plus caliper large tree retained within a
non-residential parking area island and/or peninsula, the minimum parking space
requirement shall be reduced by up to three spaces, at the option of the owner,
to provide the area of minimum protection set forth under subsection (G)(2),
and minimum open space area set forth under section
9-4-268(I), provided the total parking space reduction is not more than 30% of
the minimum parking space requirement.
   (F)   (1)   Except as further provided, minimum non-screening Bufferyard B
setbacks set forth under section
9-4-119, and/or minimum street right-of-way building setbacks for residential
and nonresidential uses may be reduced by up to 10% at the option of the owner,
where the reduction is necessary to retain an existing ten-inch-plus caliper
large tree, provided:
         (a)   The tree is determined, by the Director of Planning and
Development Services or his or her designated representative, to be either
natural growth (seedling) vegetation or that the tree has been in existence for
not less than 20 years at the current location, otherwise previously
transplanted trees shall not qualify for purposes of this section;
         (b)   The reduction is indicated upon an approved site plan; including
the location, type and caliper of the subject tree, and the building separation
and future no-build zone as further described;
         (c)   A building to tree trunk separation of not less than ten feet is
maintained at the time of initial construction;
         (d)   No new future buildings, expansions or additions to existing
buildings, or other impervious areas including parking areas and/or drives,
shall be allowed to encroach into a designated future no-build zone, described
as a ten-foot radius from the center of the trunk of the retained tree; and
         (e)   A six-inch or greater caliper large tree shall be substituted in
replacement of any dead or diseased tree qualified under this requirement, at
the location of the removed tree, within 60 days of removal of the tree by the
owner or within the period following notice by the city.
      (2)   The setback reduction allowance shall not apply to single-family
and two-family attached (duplex) development or associated accessory
structures.
   (G)   Existing substitute material standards.
      (1)   Existing substitute material shall be protected from site
development activities. Specifically, there shall be no change of grade (cut or
fill), compaction of soils, storage of construction material, debris, chemicals
and/or machinery or other activities which otherwise inhibits the percolation
of surface water within the “Area of Minimum Protection” as described under
subsection (G)(2) below.
      (2)   Area of minimum protection (by plant material type).
         (a)   Large tree: Eight-foot radius or drip zone, whichever is less.
         (b)   Small tree: Six-foot radius or drip zone, whichever is less.
         (c)   Evergreen shrub: Four-foot radius or drip zone, whichever is
less.
      (3)   Barrier required.  Existing substitute material shall be screened
by means of a visible barrier which identifies the limits of the area of
minimum protection.
      (4)   Qualifying the location and material type; site identification.
         (a)   Prior to site plan approval the existing substitute material
shall be identified upon the preliminary vegetation plan in sufficient detail
to ensure compliance with this section.
         (b)   All large and small trees subject to this section shall be
individually flagged or paint-marked at the time of submission of the
preliminary and final vegetation plan, except as further provided.
         (c)   Where there are 20 or more qualified large and/or small trees
located within a continuous stand the boundary of the tree line may be
indicated on the preliminary and final vegetation plan in lieu of individual
marking. For purposes of this section, the term “continuous stand” shall be
construed as a unified and closely spaced group of trees which is void of
impervious encroachments. Scattered individual or groups of trees which do not,
or will not upon maturity, share common canopy space and/or a narrow linear row
(s) of trees shall not be construed as a continuous stand.
(Ord. No. 95-112, § 1, passed 10-9-1995; Ord. No. 96-6, §§ 2–4, passed 1-11-
1996; Ord. No. 98-144, § 7, passed 11-12-1998; Ord. No. 05-123, §§ 1, 2, passed
10-13-2005; Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006; Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-
12-2019)
SEC. 9-4-266 SCREENING VEGETATION REQUIREMENT WITHIN BUFFERYARDS C, D, E AND F.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided, within Bufferyards C, D, E and F, as
required per Article G of this chapter, a complete visual screen shall be
installed along the entire length of the subject bufferyard in accordance with
the following:
      (2)   Minimum vegetation material:
         (a)   Bufferyard C: Three large evergreen trees, four small evergreen
trees and 16 evergreen shrubs per each 100 linear feet of buffer or fraction
thereof.
         (b)   Bufferyard D: Four large evergreen trees, six small evergreen
trees and 16 evergreen shrubs per each 100 linear feet of buffer or fraction
thereof.
         (c)   Bufferyard E: Six large evergreen trees, eight small evergreen
trees and 26 evergreen shrubs per each 100 linear feet of buffer or fraction
thereof.
         (d)   Bufferyard F: Eight large evergreen trees, ten small evergreen
trees and 36 evergreen shrubs per each 100 linear feet of buffer or fraction
thereof.
         (e)   Where the fence, evergreen hedge or berm potion is utilized
within the bufferyard in accordance with the provisions of section
9-4-119, then the minimum vegetation material required by this subsection is
reduced by 25% for Type D, E and F bufferyards.
         (f)   Where the fence, evergreen hedge or berm option is utilized
within the bufferyard in accordance with the provisions of section
9-4-119, then up to 25% of the minimum vegetation material required by this
subsection for Type C, D, E and F bufferyards may be deciduous (non-evergreen).
   (B)   Bufferyard screening vegetation shall be in addition to and shall not
count toward the site vegetation material requirement as set forth under
section
9-4-263 of this article and/or the evergreen hedge option set forth under
section
9-4-119, Article G of this chapter.
   (C)   The intent of this section shall be to provide a complete year round
opaque visual barrier between incompatible land uses. Qualified vegetation
should therefore be spaced to accomplish this end. No horizontal plane, as
viewed perpendicular from the property line, may be void of vegetation within
five years of planting for a height of at least 12 feet. Beyond this five-year
time period the vegetation screening shall be expected to increase in height in
accordance with the natural growth patterns of the approved materials.
   (D)   Bufferyard screening exemptions.
      (1)   For all uses except public schools and churches, bufferyard
screening is not required along those areas where there are 500 or more feet
separating adjoining property lines from any on-site improvements.
      (2)   In the case of public schools, bufferyard screening is not required
along those areas where there are 250 or more feet separating adjoining
property lines from on-site improvements.
      (3)   In the case of churches, bufferyard screening is not required.
   (E)   Parking area screening shall be in accordance with section
9-4-268(I) of this article.
(Ord. No. 95-112, § 1, passed 10-9-1995; Ord. No. 98-144, §§ 8, 9, 10, passed
11-12-1998; Ord. No. 11-073, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 9-4-267 ACCEPTABLE VEGETATION BY MATERIAL TYPE.
   (A)   Materials list notations; meanings.
      (1)   Acceptable screening vegetation: (S)
      (2)   Tolerant to periodic wet soil conditions: (W)
      (3)   Various varieties: (*)
      (4)   Native: (N)
      (5)   Minimum height of 12 inches: (H)
      (6)   Light: limited shade: (L1)
      (7)   Light: limited shade to complete shade: (L2)
   (B)   Certain vegetation materials; maximum allowable percentage.  The
following vegetation materials, as listed by common name, shall constitute not
more than 25% of the total requirement for the specific category:
      (1)   Large tree category - River birch.
      (2)   Small tree category - Aristocrat pear, Bradford pear, Capitol pear
and Cleveland select pear.
      (3)   Evergreen shrub category - Red-tip photinia.
   (C)   Materials for vegetation requirements. Except as further provided,
materials listed below shall be utilized to satisfy the vegetation requirements
of this article:
      (1)   Shrubs 1.5 - 6 feet - evergreen.
   Abelia x grandiflora      Glossy Abelia         (*)
   Aucuba japonica      Japanese Aucuba         (*)(L2)
   Buxus microphylla japonica   Japanese Boxwood      (*)(L1)
   Buxus microphylla ‘Koreana’   Korean Boxwood      (*)(L1)
   Buxus sempervirens ‘Suffruticosa’   Dwarf Boxwood   (L1)
   Cephalotaxus harrigtonia         Japanese Plum Yew   (L1)
   Chamaecyparis obtusa ‘Nana Gracilis’   Dwarf Hinoki Cypress   
   Cotoneaster horizontalis      Rockspray Cotoneaster   (*)(H)
   Cryptomeria japonica nana      Dwarf Japanese Cedar   
   Euonymus fortunei ‘Vegetus’   Evergreen Bittersweet      (*)
   Euonymus japonicus ‘Microphyllus’   Dwarf Japanese Euonymus   (H)
   Fatsia japonica         Japanese Fatsia         (*)(L2)
   Gardenia jasminoides ‘Radicans’      Dwarf Gardenia   (H) (L1)
   Hypericum patulum         St.-Johns-Wort         (*)
   Ilex cornuta ‘Burfordii Nana’   Dwarf Burford Holly         (L1)
   Ilex crenata ‘Compacta’      Compacta Holly   
   Ilex crenata ‘Microphylla’      Littleleaf Japanese Holly   
   Ilex cornuta ‘Carissa’      Carissa Holly            (L1)
   Ilex cornuta ‘Rotunda’      Dwarf Horned Holly   
   Ilex glabra ‘Shamrock’                     (N)
   Ilex vomitoria ‘Nana’      Dwarf Yaupon      (H)(N)(W)
   Juniperus chinensis ‘Pfitzeriana’      Pfitzer Juniper      (*)
   Juniperus davurica ‘Expansa’ (‘Personi’)   Parsons Juniper      (*)(H)
   Juniperus horizontalis      Prostrate Juniper   
   Leucothoe axillaris         Coastal Leucothoe      (L2) (W)
   Leucothoe fontanesiana      Drooping Leucothoe   (*)(L2) (W)
   Ligustrum japonicum      Ligustrum         (L1) (S)
   Loropetelum Chinese nana   Dwarf Chinese Fringe Flower   (L1)
   Mahonia bealei         Leatherleaf Mahonia      (*)(L2)
   Mahonia / Mahonia Hybrids                  (*)(L2)
   Nandina domestica         Nandina            (*)(L1)
   Pieris japonica         Japanese Andromeda      (*)(L1)
   Pinus mugo ‘Compacta’      Mugo Pine            (*)
   Pittosporum tobira nana      Chinese Podocarpus      (L1)
   Prunus laurocerasus       ‘Zabeliana’ Zabel Laurel      (L1)
   Rhaphiolepis indica         India Hawthorn         (*)
   Rosa hybrid Dwarf Rose species                  (*)
   Taxus cuspidate          Japanese Yew          (L1)
   Thuja occidentalis nana       Eastern arborvitae          (N)
   Yucca filamentosa          Adam’s Needle Yucca    (*)(H)(N)
   Yucca gloriosa          Mound-Lily Yucca
         (2)   Shrubs 1.5 - 6 feet - deciduous.
   Buddleia davidii nana      Dwarf Butterfly Bush
   Callicarpa americana      American Beautyberry      (N)
   Chaenomeles japonica      Japanese Flowering Quince   (*)
   Chaenomeles speciosa      Flowering Quince
   Clethra alnifolia nana      Dwarf Clethra         (N)
   Cotoneaster divaricatus      Spreading Cotoneaster
   Hamamelis vernalis         Vernal Witch-Hazel         (L1)
   Hydrangea macrophylla      Bigleaf Hydrangea
   Hydrangea quercifolia      Oakleaf Hydrangea         (L1)(N)
   Hypericum kalmianum      Kalm St.-John’s-Wort
   Itea virginica   
   Jasminum nudiflorum      Winter Jasmine         (H)(L1)
   Kerria japonica         Kerria               (L1)
   Lagerstromia hubrids nana      Dwarf Crapemyrtles
   Rosa               Rose Hybrids         (*)
   Spirea               Spirea species          (*)
   Vaccinium ashei         Rabbiteye Blueberry
   Weigela Varieties         Dwarf Weigela         (*)
      (3)   Shrubs 6 - 12 feet - evergreen.
   Azalea indica       Indian Azalea          (*)(L2)
   Camellia japonica       Camellia             (*)(L2)
   Camellia sasanqua       Sasanqua Camellia          (*)(L1)
   Camellia sinensis       Tea Plant             (S)(L1)
   Cleyera japonica       Cleyera             (S)(L2)
   Cotoneaster          Cotoneaster species       (*)
   Elaeagnus pungens    Thorny Elaeagnus          (*)(S)
   Euonymus japonica    Evergreen Euonymus       (*)
   Ilex cornuta          Chinese Holly          (*)(L1)(S)
   Ilex cornuta ‘Burfordii’    Burford Holly          (*)(L1)(S)
   Ilex crenata          Japanese Holly          (*)(S)
   Ilex glabra         Inkberry Holly         (Ll)(N)(W)
   Ilex latifolia         Lusterleaf Holly         (Ll)(S)
   Ilex vomitoria ‘Pendula’   Weeping Yaupon Holly      (*)(N)(W)
   Illicium anisatum      Anisetree            (L2)
   Illicium floridanum      Florida Anisetree         (*)(L2)(N)(W)
   Juniperus chinensis      Juniper species         (*)
   Leucothoe populifolia   Florida Leucothoe         (L2)(N)(W)
   Ligustrum japonicum   Japanese Privet         (*)(L1)(S)
   Ligustrum lucidum      Tall Glossy Privet         (*)(L1)(S)
   Ligustrum sinense ‘Variegatum’   Variegated Chinese Privet      (Ll)
   Loropeialum chinense      Loropetalum         (L1)(S)
   Michelia figo         Banana Shrub   
   Myrica cerifera      Wax-Myrtle            (W)(S)(N)
   Osmanthus x fortunei   Fortune Tea Olive         (*)(L1)(S)
   Osmanthus fragrans   Fragrant Tea Olive         (*)(L1)
   Osmanthus heterophyllus      Holly Osmanthus      (*)(L1)(S)
   Pittosporum tobira         Pittosporum         (Ll)
   Podocarpus macrophyllus maki   Podocarpus         (*)(S)
   Pyracantha koidzumii      Formosa Fire thorn         (*)(S)
   Thuja orientalis         Oriental Arborvitae         (*)(S)
   Viburnum japonicum      Japanese Viburnum         (S)
   Viburnum tinus         Laurestinus Viburnum      (*)(S)
   Yucca aloifolia         Spanish-Bayonet   
      (4)   Shrubs 6 - 12 feet - deciduous.
   Azalea hybrid         Hybrid Azalea   (*)(L2)
   Buddleja davidii         Butterfly-Bush   (*)
   Calycanthus floridus      Sweet Shrub      (*)(L1)(N)
   Chimonanthus praecox      Winter Sweet      (*)
   Chionanthus virginicus      Fringe Tree   
   Cotinus coggyria         Smoketree      (*)(N)
   Cornus species         Dwarf Dogwoods   (L2)(N)
   Cotoneaster salicifolius floccosus   Willowleaf Cotoneaster   (*)
   Cytisus scoparius         Scotch Broom   (*)
   Deutzia scabra         Pride of Rochester   (*)
   Elaegnus commutata      Silverberry   
   Euonymus alatus         Winged Euonymus   (Ll)
   Euonymus americanus      Strawberry-Bush   (L2)(N)
   Ficus carica            Common Fig Tree   (*)
   Forsythia x intermedia      Border Forsythia   (*)
   Hamamelis virginiana      Common Witch-Hazel   (L1)(N)
   Hibiscus syriacus         Rose of Sharon   (*)
   Hydrangea paniculata ‘Grandiflora’   Peegee Hydrangea   (*)
   Ilex decidua            Possumhaw      (*)(L2)(N)
   Ilex verticillata         Winterberry      (*)(N)(W)
   Itea virginica            Virginia Sweet spire   (*)(L1)(N)(W)
   Kolkwitzia amabilis         Beautybush      (*)
   Lagerstromia species      Dwarf Crapemyrtles   
   Lonicera fragrantissima      Winter Honeysuckle   
   Philadelphus coronarius      Sweet Mock Orange   (*)
   Poncirus trifoliata         Hardy Orange   (*)
   Spiraea prunifolia ‘Plena’      Bridal Wreath Spirea   
   Spiraea x vanhouttei      Vanhoutte Spirea   
   Viburnum x burkwoodii      Burkwood Viburnum   (*)
   Viburnum dentatum         Arrowwood Viburnum   (N)
   Viburnum x juddii         Judd Viburnum   
   Viburnum macrocephalum ‘Sterile’   Chinese Snowball   
   Viburnum opulus ‘Roseum’      European Snowball      (*)
   Viburnum plicatum tomentosum   Doublefile Viburnum   (*)
   Weigela florida         Weigela         (*)
      (5)   Small trees - evergreen.
   Cornus Kousa angustata      Evergreen Dogwood   
   Cupressus arizonica      Arizona Cypress      (*)(S)
   Ilex x attenuata         Hybrid Holly         (*)(S)(Ll)
   Ilex cassine            Dahoon Holly      (*)(W)(L1)(N)
   Ilex x ‘Nellie R. Stevens’      Nellie Stevens Holly      (L1)(S)
   Ilex opaca            American Holly      (*)(L1)(N)
   Ilex vomitoria            Yaupon Holly         (*)(S)(Ll)(N)
   Magnolia grandiflora ‘Little Gem’   Little Gem Magnolia      (S)(Ll)(N)
   Magnolia virginiana         Sweet Bay         (*)(L1)(N)(W)
   Olea species   Cold Hardy Olive               (Ll)
   Pinus virginiana         Virginia Pine         (N)
   Prunus caroliniana         Carolina Cherry-Laurel   (*)(S)(N)
   Quercus acuta         Japanese Evergreen Oak   (S)
      (6)   Small trees - deciduous.
   Acer buergeranum         Trident Maple      (*)
   Acer ginnala            Amur Maple         (*)
   Acer griseum            Paperbark Maple   
   Acer palmatum         Japanese Maple      (*)(L2)
   Acer palmatum dissectum      Laceleaf Japanese Maple   (*)(L2)
   Acer truncatum         Shantung Maple   
   Amelanchier arborea      Serviceberry         (*)(N)
   Carpinus caroliniana      American Hornbeam   (N)(L2)
   Cercis canadensis         Eastern Redbud      (*)(N)
   Cercis species         Redbuds   
   Cornus florida         Flowering Dogwood      (*)(N)(L1)
   Cornus kousa         Kousa Dogwood      (*)
   Cornus mas            Cornelian Cherry Dogwood   (*)
   Crataegus phaenopyrum      Washington Hawthorne   (*)(N)
   Halesia carolina         Carolina Silverbell      (N)(L2)
   Hamamelis mollis         Chinese Witch-Hazel   (*)(L1)
   Koelreuteria bipinnata      Chinese Flame Tree
   Koelreuteria paniculata      Golden-Rain-Tree      (*)
   Lagerstroemia indica      Crape-Myrtle         (*)
   Magnolia macrophylla      Bigleaf Magnolia      (*)(N)
   Magnolia x            Saucer Magnolia      (*)
   Magnolia stellata         Star Magnolia      (*)
   Malus hybrida         Flowering Crab Apple   (*)
   Morus alba            White Mulberry      (*)   
   Morus alba ‘Pendula’      Weeping White Mulberry   (*)   
   Oxydendrum arboreum      Sourwood         (N)(Ll)
   Pistacia chinensis         Pistachio         (*)
   Prunus cerasifera         Plum Species      (*)
   Prunus serrulata         Japanese Cherry      (*)
   Prunus subhirtella pendula      Weeping Cherry      (*)
   Prunus yedoensis         Yoshino Cherry      (*)
   Punica granatum         Pomegranate      (*)
   Salix caprea            Goat Willow         (*)(W)
   Sassafras albidum         Common Sassafras      (N)
   Stewartia varieties         Stewartia
   Styrax varieties         Snowball
   Ulmus parvifolia         Chinese Elm         (*)
   Viburnum prunifolium      Blackhaw Viburnum      (Ll)
   Viburnum rufidulum         Southern Blackhaw      (L1)(N)
   Vitex agnus-castus         Chaste - Tree      (*)
      (7)   Large trees - evergreen.
   Cedrus deodara         Deodar Cedar      (*)(S)
   Cryptomeria japonica      Japanese Cryptomeria   (S)
   Cupresso- cyparis leylandii      Leyland Cypress      (*)(S)
   Ilex attenuate         Holly species         (Ll)
   Juniperus virginiana         Eastern Red Cedar      (*)(S)(N)
   Magnolia grandiflora      Southern Magnolia      (*)(S)(N)
   Pinus bungeana         Lacebark Pine
   Pinus eliotti            Slash Pine
   Pinus palustris         Longleaf Pine      (N)
   Pinus strobus         White Pine   
   Pinus sylvestris         Scotch Pine   
   Pinus taeda            Loblolly Pine         (N)
   Pinus thunbergiana         Japanese Black Pine   (S)
   Quercus laurifolia         Laurel Oak         (N)
   Quercus virginiana         Southern Live Oak      (N)(W)
   Thuja species         Green Giant Arborvitae   (N)
      (8)   Large trees - deciduous.      
   Acer rubrum            Red Maple      (*)(N)(W)
   Acer saccharum         Sugar Maple      (*)(N)(W)
   Betula nigra            River Birch      (*)(W)(N)
   Celtis laevigata         Sugar Hackberry   (*)(N)(W)
   Celtis occidentalis         Common Hackberry   (*)(N)
   Cladrastis lutea         Yellowwood      (*)(N)
   Diospyros virginiana      Persimmon      (*)(N)
   Fagus grandifolia         Beech         (N)
   Ginkgo biloba         Maidenhair Tree   (*)
   Gymnocladus dioicus      Kentucky Coffee Tree   (W)(N)
   Liquidambar styraciflua      Sweet-Gum      (*)(N)(W)
   Liriodendron tulipifera      Tulip-Tree      (*)(N)(W)
   Magnolia acuminata         Cucumber Tree   (*)
   Metasequoia glyptostroboides   Dawn Redwood   (*)(W)
   Nyssa sylvatica         Black Tupelo      (*)(N)
   Platanus occidentalis      Sycamore      (N)(W)
   Prunus sargentii         Sargent Cherry   (*)
   Quercus acutissima         Sawtooth Oak   (N)
   Quercus alba            White Oak      (N)
   Quercus coccinea         Scarlet Oak      (*)(N)
   Quercus macrocarpa      Bur Oak      (N)
   Quercus nigra         Water Oak      (N)(W)
   Quercus palustris         Pin Oak      (*)(N)(W)
   Quercus phellos         Willow Oak      (N)(W)
   Quercus rubra         Red Oak      (N)
   Quercus velutina         Black Oak      (N)
   Salix babylonica         Weeping Willow   (W)
   Quercus shumardii         Shumard Oak   (N)(W)
   Quercus falcata         Southern Red Oak   (N)
   Quercus nuttalli         Nutall Oak      (N)
   Quercus shumardii         Shumard Oak   (N)(W)(L1)
   Taxodium ascendons      Pond Cypress   (N)
   Taxodium distichum         Bald Cypress      (*)(W)(N)
   Tilia americana         American Linden   (*)(N)(W)
      (D)   Vegetation material (type) substitution. Vegetation material type
(s) not listed above under this section may be substituted for required
material(s) on a one-for-one basis provided the substitute material(s) meet the
requirements of this article. Where substitute material(s) are proposed the
owner/developer shall provide at the time of preliminary and final bufferyard
plan submission, evidence in sufficient detail to ensure compliance with this
section. No substitute material(s) shall be utilized to fulfill the
requirements of this article except as specifically approved by the Director of
Planning and Development Services on a case-by-case basis.
(Ord. No. 95-112, § 1, passed 10-9-1995; Ord. No. 96-6, §§ 5–8, passed 1-11-
1996; Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006; Ord. No. 11-073, §§ 2, 3, passed
11-17-2011; Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 9-4-268 STANDARDS.
   (A)   Seeding. All open space areas that are not landscaped shall be seeded
with lawn or other ground cover.
   (B)   Easement. No vegetation materials required by this article shall be
located or planted on property subject to utility or drainage easements without
the written consent of the city and the easement holder. Site plan approval
from the respective easement holder shall be construed as approval of all noted
and/or illustrated encroachments.
   (C)   Solar access. If the development on an adjoining lot is existing, and
is designed for solar access, small trees shall be substituted for large trees
on a one-for-one basis where large trees would destroy solar access. This
subsection shall apply only to bufferyard screening trees and site vegetation
trees when no other planting areas are available.
   (D)   Drainage ditch. When a drainage ditch separates property lines, or is
otherwise contained within a lot or tract, all vegetation required by this
article shall be provided. However, in no case shall the required vegetation be
located within five feet of the outer edge of the drainage ditch. Stormwater
detention structures having a slope of two feet horizontal for each one foot
vertical or steeper shall be considered a drainage ditch for purposes of this
section. Placement of vegetation within easements shall be in accordance with
subsection (B) above.
   (E)   Overhead utility lines. No new or qualified existing large tree shall
be located within 15 feet of an overhead electric distribution, telephone or
cable TV line or within 25 feet of an overhead electric transmission line.
Service (drop) lines shall not be included for purposes of this requirement.
   (F)   Horizontal measurements. All such measurements shall be made from the
center of the base of the subject vegetation.
   (G)   Visibility; sight distances maintained. Visibility shall be reserved
in accordance with the sight distance standards and requirements of
Title 6, Chapter 2, Streets and Sidewalks, of the Greenville City Code and as
provided by notation or description upon any map recorded pursuant to the
subdivision regulations.
   (H)   Garage/trash container, recycling center and compactor, additional
standards. Except as further provided, in addition to any required visual
barrier(s) and/or vegetation improvements, all garbage/trash containers and
recycling centers shall be enclosed on three sides by a complete visual screen
consisting of a fence, vegetation or combination thereof and compactors shall
be completely enclosed by a screen and safety barrier composed of an opaque
masonry wall and opaque metal or wooden gate, said wall and gate shall be not
less than two feet higher than the highest point of the compactor. The Director
of Planning and Development Services or designee may approve substitute wall
and gate material provided the wall and gate results in an opaque visual screen
and safety barrier as required by this subsection; vegetation shall not be
acceptable for this purpose.
   (I)   Screening vegetation location.
      (1)   Required screening vegetation shall be installed within the minimum
bufferyard setback except as further provided:
         (a)   Where a drainage, utility improvement or other natural feature,
including existing vegetation, prevents the installation of required vegetation
within the minimum bufferyard area, as determined by the city, the materials
shall be installed within an area of equal width to the required bufferyard
area. This “area of equal width” shall be located adjacent to and extend from
the drainage, utility improvement or other natural feature. Buildings,
structures, parking areas, drives and other site improvements may encroach into
the area of equal width.
         (b)   Each ten-inch-plus caliper large tree, which trunk is located
completely or partially within 20 feet of the interior limit of any screening
bufferyard set forth under section
9-4-119, shall qualify as part of the vegetation requirement of the bufferyard,
with respect to the minimum screening vegetation type and amount, provided the
required visual vegetative screen is achieved and maintained, and the qualified
tree is not separated from the associated screening bufferyard by any
intervening building or roofed structure. The subject tree shall not qualify
for both the site and the screening vegetation requirements, with respect to
total material and/or substitution requirements, applicable to the site.
      (2)   Screening vegetation shall not be located within a stormwater
detention structure which has a slope of two feet horizontal for each one foot
vertical or steeper. All plantings within a stormwater detention structure
shall otherwise be allowed subject to approval of the City Engineer and
provided the vegetation materials are of a variety that can customarily
withstand periodic flooding and wet soil conditions.
      (3)   Where the materials are planted on slopes, of two feet horizontal
for each one foot vertical or steeper, a terraced planting area, designed in
accordance with acceptable and recognized practice, shall be provided.
      (4)   Where the materials are planted in areas lying below the finished
grade of the surrounding portions of the lot the materials shall be of a size
and type which can be expected to fulfill the requirements of this article.
(Ord. No. 05-123, § 3, passed 10-13-2005; Ord. No. 10-34, § 5, 4-8-2010)
   (J)   Site vegetation location.  Required site vegetation may be located at
any point within the boundary of the subject lot, except as farther provided:
      (1)   With the exception of street yard trees, site vegetation shall not
be located within ten feet of a principal and/or accessory structure.
      (2)   Site vegetation shall not be located within a stormwater detention
structure which has a slope of two feet horizontal for each one foot vertical
or steeper. Existing vegetation material located within a stormwater detention
structure may otherwise be allowed to qualify for purposes of this section,
subject to the approval of the City Engineer and provided the vegetation
materials are of a variety that can customarily withstand periodic flooding and
wet soil conditions as approved by the Director of Planning and Development
Services on a case-by-case basis.
(Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006)
   (K)   Street yard vegetation installation requirements.
      (1)   Street yard vegetation may count toward and be considered part of
the site vegetation material requirement as set forth under section
9-4-263 of this chapter.
      (2)   (a)   Street yard vegetation shall be installed, at the rate of two
large trees per each 100 linear feet or fraction thereof of street frontage
(public or private), on any lot containing a use with a land use classification
number of two or more; provided, however, where vegetation material
installation is required pursuant to section
9-4-271. “Nonconforming vegetation; compliance required” and large trees can
not be located in compliance with this article due to the proximity of an
overhead utility transmission line, or substandard available open space
including bufferyard width, island/peninsula area or dimension and the like,
small trees shall be substituted for large trees at the ratio of two small
trees for each one large tree. Substitutions shall only be considered and
allowed on an individual tree-by-tree basis. The intent of this section shall
be to require the installation of large trees to the greatest extent possible.
         (b)   Where the small tree substitution is allowed each small tree
shall have not less than six square feet of exclusive open space which measures
not less than two feet at its narrowest dimension. Where the available open
space does not meet this requirement, as determined by the Director of Planning
and Development Services, shrubs may be substituted for small trees on a one-
for-one basis; provided, however, where the open space is less than four square
feet in area and/or less than two feet in width ground cover may be substituted
for shrubs.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided under this section the vegetation
material (category) substitution standards contained under section
9-4-265 may apply at the option of the owner.
      (4)   Such street yard vegetation shall be located within 15 feet of the
street right-of-way or easement line unless otherwise provided; however, no
large tree shall be installed closer than two feet to the back of curb, travel
surface or sidewalk located on the right-of-way or easement.
(Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006)
   (L)   Parking area vegetation location.
      (1)   Any on-site large tree, small tree or shrub which has been
qualified pursuant to this article may count toward the parking area vegetation
requirement, provided the materials comply with all other requirements of this
section.
      (2)   No portion of any parking area, including any driveway, parking
space, drive isle or turning area, shall be located more than 30 feet from an
on-site small tree or more than 75 feet from an on-site large tree. For
purposes of this section, the measurement shall be from the farthest edge of
the subject area to the center of the base of the closest qualifying tree.
      (3)   Such tree(s) may be located, at the option of the owner, within an
area adjacent to and extending from the parking/drive surface or on islands
contained within and/or peninsulas extending into the impervious areas.
      (4)   Where the trees are located on island(s) and/or peninsulas, the
island(s) and/or peninsula(s) shall individually contain not less than 100
square feet of open space and shall measure not less than eight feet at its
narrowest dimension wherein the open space is proposed to contain a large tree,
or not less than five feet at its narrowest dimension wherein the open space is
proposed to contain only small trees. Any open space area between the point of
curvature and the point of tangency shall be included in the minimum area
calculation; however, such area shall be exempt from the minimum dimension
requirement. Areas not meeting these requirements shall not be considered for
purposes of this section. (See also subsection (L)(8) below.)
      (5)   Where vegetation is proposed within any island and/or peninsula the
materials shall be located and designed to minimize potential conflicts with
vehicular drives, parking, loading docks and turning areas and product and/or
equipment storage and display areas. Specifically, large and small trees shall
be set back and/or off-set from bumper overhang encroachment areas or other
hazards in a manner approved by the Director of Planning and Development
Services or authorized representative.
      (6)   When a parking and/or drive area is not constructed of a permanent
hard surface material, such as asphalt or concrete which clearly defines the
travel and parking area, the island(s) and/or peninsula(s) shall be set apart
from all vehicular areas by a raised vertical curb, wheel stop or other
physical barrier which otherwise delineates the open space contained therein.
      (7)   The minimum open space shall be grassed or contain ground cover or
other erosion-control material such as mulch over the balance of the area,
provided the area(s) shall be clear of impervious surface and/or subsurface
materials which would otherwise prohibit the percolation of surface water.
      (8)   When located on such island(s) and/or peninsula(s), no large tree
shall have less than 100 square feet of exclusive open space, and no small tree
shall have less than 50 square feet of exclusive open space. Shrubs and ground
cover may encroach into the open space area(s) described herein.
      (9)   Parking area screening shall be required in accordance with the
following:
         (a)   Except as further provided, parking area screening shall be
installed within a ten-foot area adjacent to and extending the full street side
width of all parking areas which front a public or private street. For purposes
of this section, any parking area drive or drive isle, which separates a
parking space from the street right-of-way or easement line, shall be
considered part of the parking area and the drive or drive isle shall be
screened in accordance with this section. Parking areas which deflect from the
street line shall be considered a part of the parking area subject to the
screening requirement of this section where the parking area is less than 50
feet from the street right-of-way or easement line and in accordance with
subsection (L)(9)(b) below.
         (b)   The intent of parking area vegetation screening shall be to
provide a year-round visual screen between parking areas and public or private
streets. Qualified vegetation should therefore be spaced to accomplish this
end. No horizontal plane, as viewed perpendicular from the street line, may be
void of vegetation, or other approved visual screen, within three years of
planting for a height of at least 30 inches, (under normal growing conditions),
above the finished grade of the immediately adjacent parking area surface.
         (c)   A wall, fence, berm or other structure which provides a
qualified visual screen, alone or in combination with qualified vegetation, to
a height of 30 inches may substitute for a portion or all of the parking area
screening requirement, provided all other provisions of this article are met.
Non-vegetative visual screens shall be installed or improved to the minimum
required height prior to the issuance of any final occupancy permit.
         (d)   When vegetation material installation is required pursuant to
section
9-4-271 and where the available open space is less than two feet in width,
ground cover may be substituted for parking area screening.
         (e)   Parking areas, or portions thereof, which are set back 50 feet
or more from the street right-of-way or street easement line, shall be exempt
from the parking area screening requirement of this section.
         (f)   Vegetation and above-grade structures and/or improvements shall
comply with the sight distance standards and requirements of
Title 6, Chapter 2, Streets and Sidewalks, of the Greenville City Code and as
provided by notation or description upon any map recorded pursuant to the
subdivision regulations and as provided by notation or description upon any
approved site plan.
      (10)   When a parking lot existing on the effective date of this section
(November 12, 1998) is required to comply with the standards set forth under
this article, the minimum number of required parking spaces may be reduced up
to 10% where the loss of existing spaces occurs as a result of the application
of this subsection.
      (11)   Bufferyards which separate parking areas and drive isles from
perimeter property lines shall be considered an “island and/or peninsula” and
the open space and vegetation material located therein shall be subject to
subsections (L)(5), (6), (7) and (8) of this section.
      (12)   New parking areas and/or expansion areas to existing parking areas
shall comply with all parking area requirements in effect at the time of
development regardless of the percent of expansion.
   (M)   Fences.
      (1)   All fences must be constructed in a workman-like manner of
customary or normal fencing material.
      (2)   In residential zoning districts fences shall be no greater than six
feet in height in the front yard and no greater than eight feet in height in
the side or rear yard.
      (3)   In residential zoning districts all fences and walls must be of
brick, stone, stucco, wrought iron, wood, or materials similar in appearance
and durability, except that chain link or woven wire may be used in the side
and rear yard behind the front building line. Barbed wire and concertina wire
may be permitted within bona-fide agricultural operations.
      (4)   In non-residential zoning districts fences shall not be greater
than eight feet in the front yard and no greater than ten feet in height in the
side or rear yard. Fence height does not include barbed wire or concertina wire
added to the top of fences.
      (5)   Silt fences and other similar construction type barriers may be
allowed in conjunction with an active building permit, but shall be removed
after site stabilization is completed.
      (6)   No fence shall be erected upon any lot or attached to any building
or structure, nor shall any existing fence be enlarged, removed, relocated or
materially repaired unless a zoning compliance letter, and if applicable
building permit, for the same has been issued by the city. The letter shall be
on forms supplied by the city and shall contain such information as necessary
to ensure that the requirements and conditions of this article can be met.
      (7)   No fence or portion thereof shall be located or extend into a
public right-of-way.
(Ord. No. 95-112, § 1, passed 10-9-1995; Ord. No. 98-144, § 11, 12, 13, passed
11-12-1998; Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006; Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-
12-2019; Ord. No. 21-010, § 2, passed 2-15-2021)
SEC. 9-4-269 DEFINITIONS OF CERTAIN TERMS; MEANINGS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Building expansion(s), parking area and/or drive expansion(s) and proposed
building construction. Include both singular and cumulative expansions and/or
construction over any twelve-month period.
Ground coverage. Includes both lot coverage (building footprint) and impervious
surface area.
Impervious surface area. Includes all on-site drives, parking spaces (stalls),
parking bays, travel and storage lanes, loading zones and turning areas
constructed with a hard surface all-weather material including gravel, stone,
CABC and the like. The area within any public street right-of-way and/or
private street easement shall not be included in the calculation of impervious
surface area.
Parking area. Shall not be construed to include any impervious surface area
utilized principally for stock, product and/or equipment storage and/or display
including but not limited to vehicle and mobile home sales lots or tractor and
trailer loading docks and turning areas.
(Ord. No. 95-112, § 1, passed 10-9-1995)
SEC. 9-4-270 MAINTENANCE OF REQUIRED VEGETATION.
   The property owner shall be responsible for maintaining all vegetation
required by this article in a healthy condition. Any dead, unhealthy or missing
vegetation shall be replaced. Replacement shall occur at the earliest suitable
planting season.
(Ord. No. 95-112, § 1, passed 10-9-1995)
SEC. 9-4-271 NONCONFORMING VEGETATION; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Property that does not comply with the requirements contained in this
article shall meet the provisions of this section.
   (B)   When there is noncompliance with the vegetation standards and
requirements of this article, and when an applicant files the necessary forms
for a building permit and/or change of use permit, one of the three following
situations shall apply:
      (1)   The provisions of this article are not applicable when:
         (a)   There is a change of land use where the new land use is of the
same or lower land use classification;
         (b)   Building expansion(s) are proposed which constitute less than a
20% expansion in lot coverage;
         (c)   Parking area and/or drive expansion(s) are proposed which
constitute less than a 20% expansion in impervious surface areas;
         (d)   Building and parking area and/or drive expansion(s) are proposed
which collectively constitute less than a 50% expansion in existing impervious
area and lot coverage combined; and
         (e)   The valuation of any proposed building construction, including
repairs, renovations and/or expansions, is less than or equal to 50% of the
current tax valuation of all on-site building improvements as listed on the
Pitt County tax record. The valuation of proposed construction shall be based
on applicable building permit application data.
         (f)   Complete demolitions and reconstructions invoke full compliance
with vegetation requirements.
      (2)   Vegetation improvements will be required in accordance with
subsection (C) below when:
         (a)   There is a change in land use where the new land use is of a
higher land use classification;
         (b)   Building expansion(s) are proposed which constitute a 50% or
more expansion in lot coverage;
         (c)   Parking area and/or drive expansion(s) are proposed which
constitute a 50% or more expansion in impervious surface areas;
         (d)   Building and parking area and/or drive expansion(s) are proposed
which collectively constitute a 50% or more expansion in existing impervious
area and existing lot coverage combined; or
         (e)   The valuation of any proposed building construction, including
repairs, renovations and/or expansions, exceeds 50% of the current tax
valuation of all on-site building improvements as listed on the Pitt County tax
record. The valuation of proposed construction shall be based on applicable
building permit application data.
      (3)   Street trees and parking screening shall be required in accordance
with subsection (C) below when building expansions or parking and/or drive
expansion or a combination of both which constitute an expansion between 20% to
50% of existing lot coverage and/or impervious area.
   (C)   When vegetation improvements are required based on subsection (B)(2)
and/or (B)(3) above the following shall apply:
      (1)   Screening vegetation requirements (Bufferyards C, D, E and F).
         (a)   Where all of the minimum bufferyard width is available, all
required screening vegetation shall be installed.
         (b)   Where less than 100% of the minimum standard bufferyard width is
available, a fence, evergreen hedge or berm meeting the requirements of section
9-4-119, Article G of this chapter, shall be installed and all required
screening vegetation shall be installed except as further provided.
         (c)   Where less than 100% of the minimum reduced width bufferyard is
available, a percentage of each required material (small trees, large trees,
shrubs) equal to the percentage of the reduced bufferyard width available shall
be installed within such areas.
         (d)   Where less than six feet of bufferyard width is available, small
trees may be substituted for large trees on a one-for-one basis.
         (e)   Where less than three feet of bufferyard width is available,
shrubs may be substituted for small trees on a one-for-one basis.
         (f)   Where less than two feet of bufferyard width is available,
ground cover may be substituted for shrubs.
      (2)   Site vegetation requirements.
         (a)   All required site vegetation shall be installed.
         (b)   The provisions of this section shall not be deemed to require
the removal of existing structures, buildings, mechanical equipment, lighting
or any existing impervious areas.
         (c)   The intent of this section shall be to require the installation
of required vegetation, to the greatest extent possible, in all available open
space areas existing at the time of site plan application. All required
vegetation materials shall be planned for installation prior to the location or
expansion of any new impervious area or building.
         (d)   This section shall apply to street yard vegetation as part of
the site vegetation requirement.
      (3)   Parking lot and drive area vegetation requirements.
         (a)   All required parking lot and drive area vegetation shall be
provided in accordance with section
9-4-268(L) of this article.
         (b)   The provisions of this section shall not be deemed to require
the removal of existing structures, buildings, mechanical equipment, and
lighting or any existing impervious areas.
         (c)   The intent of this section shall be to require the installation
of all required parking lot and drive area vegetation to the greatest extent
possible, in all available open space areas existing at the time of site plan
application. All required vegetation materials shall be planned for
installation prior to the location or expansion of any new impervious area or
building.
(Ord. No. 95-112, § 1, passed 10-9-1995; Ord. No. 98-144, § 14, passed 11-12-
1998; Ord. No. 18-037, § 1, passed 6-14-2018)
 SEC. 9-4-272 FLEXIBILITY IN ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The City Council recognizes that, due to the wide variety of types of
development and property boundary configurations, the varying quantity and
dimension of available open spaces, the natural and built environment and other
existing adverse physical conditions, it is neither possible nor prudent to
establish inflexible vegetation regulations. Therefore, the Director of
Planning and Development Services, or his or her authorized representative, may
permit deviations from the specific requirements of this article provided the
deviations are in accordance with subsection (B) or (E).
   (B)   Prior to the administrative approval of any deviation to the
requirements of this article, the Director of Planning and Development
Services, or his or her authorized representative, shall first determine the
application meets all of the following criteria:
      (1)   The deviation is necessary due to unique physical conditions of the
property, which may include existing vegetation conditions;
       (2)   The hardship in complying with the requirements is not created by
a proposed building, building expansion or expansion of impervious area into
available open space wherein required plantings could be located in accordance
with ordinance provisions;
      (3)   The hardship in complying with the requirements is not related to
the expense or cost of installing the required materials or other improvements;
      (4)   The deviation represents the least possible deviation from the
letter of this article that will allow reasonable use of the property; and
      (5)   The deviation is in harmony with the general purpose and intent of
this article and preserves its spirit.
   (C)   Any approved deviation shall be noted on the preliminary and final
vegetation plan and include the original minimum requirement, the
justifications for the deviation and the resulting modified requirement.
   (D)   Whenever the condition or circumstances for which any approved
deviation was approved no longer exist, the original applicable minimum
requirements shall immediately apply and the vegetation improvements required
by the requirements shall be installed.
   (E)   The Director of Planning and Development Services, or his or her
authorized representative, may reduce vegetation requirements for properties
located in any industrial zoning district only when expansions are proposed and
not for new development, on a case-by-case basis. However, street trees,
bufferyard screening and parking area screening shall continue to be required,
but the actual locations may be adjusted based on site constraints, including
but not limited to, conflicting locations of utilities, swales, storm water
structures and egress.
(Ord. No. 98-144, § 15, passed 11-12-1998; Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-
2006; Ord. No. 18-037, § 2, passed 6-14-2018; Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-
2019)
ARTICLE Q. OTHER REQUIREMENTS
SEC. 9-4-281 SIDEWALK REQUIREMENTS ALONG MAJOR THOROUGHFARES, MINOR
THOROUGHFARES AND BOULEVARDS.
   Construction of sidewalks shall be required along major thoroughfares, minor
thoroughfares and boulevards in conjunction with the construction of any new
development of non-residential developments, mixed-use developments and
multifamily residential developments in accordance with the provisions of this
section. The sidewalk requirements in this section are in addition to sidewalk
requirements set forth under Art. 5: Subdivisions, Sec.
9-5-123.
   (A)   Sidewalks shall be provided along both sides of major thoroughfares,
minor thoroughfares and boulevards as designated on the adopted Highway Map
from the Highway Element of the Comprehensive Transportation Plan, as amended,
excluding: freeways, expressways, US-264 between NC-11 and NC-33, and
Stantonsburg Dr. from B’s Barbeque Rd. westward. The developer shall provide
the sidewalk on the side of the street where the development is located in
conjunction with the new development on existing lots.
   (B)   Construction of sidewalks required by this section shall be
accomplished along the entire length of all property of the development
abutting major thoroughfares, minor thoroughfares and boulevards.
   (C)   Sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance with the Manual of
Standard Designs and Details. The specific design and location of all sidewalks
shall be reviewed by the Director of Engineering. The Director of Engineering
may expand the required width of sidewalks from the Manual of Standard Design
and Details in certain locations of the city and in limited cases, reduce the
required width of sidewalks to avoid obstructions while remaining in compliance
with dimensional standards of the Americans with Disabilities Act.
   (D)   All required sidewalks shall be installed prior to any occupancy,
including temporary occupancy, of new development.
   (E)   (1)   If special conditions make sidewalk construction unnecessary and
such conditions have been verified by the Director of Engineering, the
requirement to construct sidewalks along major thoroughfares, minor
thoroughfares and boulevards in conjunction with the construction of any new
building on existing lots may be deferred. Such deferment shall be granted upon
written application to and approval of the Director of Engineering.
      (2)   General standards the Director may use while considering deferment
of sidewalk installation shall include, but not be limited to, pending changes
to rights-of-way alignments, pending changes to roadway drainage facilities,
unsafe contours or unprotected drainage facilities adjacent to the sidewalk
route, or pending utility work or other construction scheduled in the area
beyond the developer’s control that could damage the sidewalk if installed.
Special conditions which make the sidewalk construction unnecessary or
undesirable shall not include personal circumstances of the developer or the
lack of sidewalks on adjacent or nearby properties.
      (3)   If approved for a circumstance where the sidewalk construction is
being delayed, the cost of the installation and construction of the deferred
sidewalk, as determined by the Director of Engineering, shall be paid by the
developer to the city and the city will construct and install the sidewalk when
the circumstances for deferment no longer exist. If approved for a circumstance
where the sidewalk construction will not occur, no payment for sidewalk
construction will be required by the developer. Appeals of decisions made by
the Director of Engineering may be made by the developer to the Board of
Adjustment.
(Ord. No. 14-073, § 1, passed 11-13-2014; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-
2023)
ARTICLE R. SITE PLAN REVIEW
SEC. 9-4-301 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of site plan review is to:
   (A)   Provide site-specific information on a particular site’s capacity to
support the proposed development;
   (B)   Ensure compliance with the standards and requirements of the city and
Greenville Utilities Commission as they relate in the individual case;
   (C)   Provide a coordinated and timely review procedure by which to ensure
comprehensive and equitable enforcement of the minimum standards of the city
and Greenville Utilities Commission; and
   (D)   Achieve the specific purposes set forth under Article A, section
9-4-2, which best promote and preserve the health, safety and general welfare
of the people.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-302 APPLICABILITY.
   Site plan review shall be required for the following development activities:
   (A)   All development activities other than individual lot development of
single-family, two-family attached (duplex), mobile home or mobile homes within
qualified mobile home parks; and
   (B)   Any change of use.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-303 APPLICATION; SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS, REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applications for site plan approval shall be submitted to the
Director of Planning and Development Services in accordance with the Land
Development Administrative Manual which is incorporated herein by reference.
   (B)   The submission requirements and review procedure set forth in the Land
Development Administrative Manual shall be considered the minimum necessary to
ensure the purposes of this section.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006;
Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 9-4-304 COMPLIANCE WITH SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   All development of lands, within the city’s planning and zoning jurisdiction
and of other lands subject to specific conditions, ordinances, policies or
agreements of the city, shall comply with the city subdivision regulations,
whether or not the subject tract is actually divided for purposes of
transferring title. Applicable regulations shall include but not be limited to
water and sanitary sewer extension(s), street extension(s), storm drainage
requirements and the like.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 96-44, § 1, passed 6-13-1996)
SEC. 9-4-305 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER APPLICABLE REQUIREMENTS.
   All developments shall comply with all applicable county, state and federal
permits. Where a county environmental health or other general occupancy permit
is necessary prior to the issuance of a building permit the site plan approval
shall be held pending receipt of the permit.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-306 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   No permits for any use or improvements shall be issued and no
construction activities shall be allowed for any development subject to this
chapter until a site plan has been approved as provided herein.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall issue a building permit for development
upon determining that the application for the permit complies with the approved
site plan.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-307 APPEALS; LAND DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL REQUIREMENTS AND
PROCEDURES; ZONING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Appeal from the Land Development Administrative Manual requirements
and procedures shall be made to the Planning and Zoning Commission. The appeal
shall be administered in the same manner as a preliminary subdivision plat.
   (B)   Appeal from any Zoning Ordinance regulation shall be made to the Board
of Adjustment in accordance with Article S.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-308 FEE.
   A fee shall be paid to the city for each proposed site plan application and
the fee shall be set out in the Manual of Fees for the City of Greenville.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-309 DENIAL RESULTING FROM VIOLATION OF TREE PROTECTION PRIOR TO
DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   Preliminary and final plats shall be denied or disapproved in accordance
with the provisions of section
6-5-27 of the Greenville City Code.
(Ord. No. 07-33, § 4, passed 3-8-2007)
ARTICLE S. BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
SEC. 9-4-316 CREATED.
   The Board of Adjustment is hereby created, pursuant to G.S. 160D-302.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-317 COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment (hereinafter called the Board) shall consist
of seven regular members and four alternate members. Six of the regular members
and three alternate members shall reside within the corporate limits of the
City of Greenville at the time of their appointment and shall be appointed by
the City Council. One of the regular members and one alternate member shall
reside outside of the corporate limits of the city, but within the limits of
the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the City of Greenville, at the time of
their appointment and shall be appointed by the Chairperson of the Board of
Commissioners of Pitt County.
   (B)   The extraterritorial representatives have equal rights, privileges and
duties with the city members of the Board, and, unless excused from voting in
accord with applicable laws, are required to vote on each question, regardless
of whether the matters at issue arise within the city or within the
extraterritorial area.
   (C)   Each alternate member, while attending any meeting of the Board and
serving in the absence of any regular member, shall have and may exercise all
powers and duties of a regular member. Any alternate member may serve for any
regular member without regard to which jurisdiction the alternate or the
regular member was originally appointed by.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 2721, § 1, passed 10-14-1993;
Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006; Ord. No. 14-041, passed 6-12-2014; Ord.
No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-4-318 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   Appointments to the Board shall be made by the City Council and Board of
County Commissioners in accordance with the applicable appointment policies of
the respective jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-319 RULES; MEETINGS; RECORDS, PROCEEDINGS TO CONFORM TO STATUTORY
REQUIREMENTS, CONFLICTS.
   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt the necessary rules to conduct its
affairs and establish regular meeting dates. All meetings of the Board shall be
open to the public, and a public record of all findings and decisions shall be
maintained. All proceedings shall be in accordance with the General Statutes of
North Carolina pertaining to Boards of Adjustment.
   A member of the Board of Adjustment shall not participate in or vote on any
quasi-judicial matter in a manner that would violate affected persons'
constitutional rights to an impartial decision maker. Impermissible conflicts
include, but are not limited to, a member having a fixed opinion prior to
hearing the matter than is not susceptible to change: undisclosed ex parte
communications: a close familial, business, or other associational relationship
with an affected person: or a financial interest in the outcome of the matter.
If an objection is raised to a member's participation and that member does not
recuse himself or herself, the remaining members shall by majority vote rule on
the objection (G.S. 160D-109(d)).
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-4-320 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   Appeal of administrative decisions. To hear and decide appeals
where it is alleged there is error in any order requirement, decision or
determination made by the Zoning Enforcement Officer in the enforcement of this
chapter or interpretation of the Director of Planning and Development Services
in the administration of this chapter;
      (2)   Special uses. To hear and decide only such special uses as the
Board of Adjustment is specifically authorized to pass on by the terms of this
chapter;
      (3)   Variances. To rule on requests for variances in accordance with
state law;
      (4)   Interpretation. To interpret, the location of lines on the official
zoning map or Zoning Ordinance text requirements where the map or text appears
to be unclear; and
      (5)   Conditions of approval. In granting any special use or variance,
the Board may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards to ensure the
purposes of this chapter.
   (B)   The Director of Planning and Development Services may reject an
application for a special use permit or variance if he or she believes that the
granting of the permit or variance would not be in accordance with state law.
Such a rejection shall be made in writing with reasons for the rejection
stated. A rejection may be appealed to the Board as an appeal of an
administrative decision. If the Board determines that the rejection was in
error, the Board may then hear the application for a special use permit or a
variance no earlier than the next regular meeting.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 2411, § 1, passed 11-9-1992;
Ord. No. 97-93, § 3, passed 9-11-1997; Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006;
Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019; Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-4-321 APPEALS PROCEDURE.
   The procedures governing appeals from the enforcement and interpretation of
this chapter shall be in accordance with state law, the Land Development
Administrative Manual, and the Rules of Procedure of the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-322 FEE.
   A fee shall be paid to the city for each application for a variance, special
use, appeal or interpretation and the fee shall be set out in the Manual of
Fees for the city.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-323 APPEAL STAYS ALL PROCEEDINGS.
   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from,
unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Board of
Adjustment, after notice of appeal has been filed with him or her, that because
of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause
imminent peril to life or property or that because the violation charged is
transitory in nature a stay would seriously interfere with enforcement of this
article. In that case proceedings shall not be stayed except by a restraining
order, which may be granted by a court of record on application, on notice to
the officer from whom the appeal is taken and due cause shown. The officer from
whom an appeal is taken may seek and utilize the advice of competent
authorities, including the Building Inspector, in making a determination under
this section.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 98-142, § 1, passed 11-12-1998)
SEC. 9-4-324 APPEALS FROM BOARD DECISIONS.
   Appeals from the decisions of the Board of Adjustment shall be made in
accordance with applicable law.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
ARTICLE T. AMENDMENTS
SEC. 9-4-331 WHO MAY PETITION.
   A petition for an amendment to either the Zoning Ordinance of the city or
the official zoning map of the city may be initiated by the City Council, the
Planning and Zoning Commission, any department or agency of the city, or the
owner or authorized agent of the owner of any property within the zoning
jurisdiction of the city that desires an amendment to either the Zoning
Ordinance or map which would affect property in which he or she has a vested
property right recognized under existing law. In accordance with G.S.160D-601,
no amendments to the zoning ordinance or the official zoning map that downzone
property shall be initiated nor shall they be enforceable without the written
consent of all property owners whose property is the subject of the down-zoning
amendment unless the down-zoning amendment is initiated by the city.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-4-332 FEE.
   A fee shall be paid to the city for each proposed amendment, supplement,
change, modification, or repeal to this chapter or the official zoning map and
the fee shall be set out in the Manual of Fees for the city.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-333 PROCEDURE.
   The procedures governing amendments to this chapter shall be in accordance
with state law, the Land Development Administrative Manual and the Rules of
Procedure of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (A)   In accordance with G.S. 160D-109(a), no member of the City Council
shall vote on a legislative decision regarding any zoning map (rezoning) or
text amendment where the outcome of the matter being considered is likely to
have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable impact on the member or if
the landowner of the property subject to a rezoning petition or the applicant
for a text amendment is a person with whom the member has a close familial,
business, or other associational relationship.
   (B)   In accordance with G.S. 160D-109(b), no member of the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall vote on a recommendation regarding any zoning map
(rezoning) or text amendment where the outcome of the matter being considered
is likely to have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable impact on the
member or if the landowner of the property subject to a rezoning petition or
the applicant for a text amendment is a person with whom the member has a close
familial, business, or other associational relationship.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-4-333.1 ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS.
   In deciding whether to approve an amendment to the official zoning map of
the city, the Planning and Zoning Commission and the City Council shall
consider the following factors:
   (A)   Conformance of the proposed map amendment with the City Land Use Plan
Map and the text of the Comprehensive Plan;
   (B)   Compatibility of the proposed map amendment with surrounding zoning
patterns;
   (C)   Compatibility of the proposed map amendment and the range of uses
permitted in the requested zoning classification with existing and future
adjacent and area land uses;
   (D)   Impact of the proposed map amendment on area streets and
thoroughfares; and
   (E)   Other factors which advance the public health, safety and welfare and
the specific purposes stated in section
9-4-2. (Ord. No. 97-82, § 1, passed 8-14-1997)
SEC. 9-4-334 SUBMITTAL TO PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION FOR RECOMMENDATION.
   Unless initiated by the Planning and Zoning Commission, the City Council
shall submit all proposed amendments to this chapter to the Planning and Zoning
Commission for review and recommendation. The Planning and Zoning Commission
shall have 65 days within which to submit its report. If the Planning and
Zoning Commission fails to submit a report within the above period, it shall be
deemed to have approved the proposed amendment.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-334.1 FUTURE LAND USE MAP: SEQUENCE OF RELATED ZONING AMENDMENT
CONSIDERATION; EFFECT OF DENIAL OF PETITION ON SUBSEQUENT SIMILAR PETITION.
   (A)   When a petition has been initiated for an amendment to the Future Land
Use Plan Map, a petition for an amendment to the official zoning map of the
city affecting the same property, or any portion thereof, shall not be
initiated in accordance with section
9-4-331 and shall not be considered by the Planning and Zoning Commission until
City Council approves or denies the amendment to the Future Land Use Plan Map.
   (B)   Except as further provided, when the City Council has denied any
petition for amendment of the Future Land Use Plan Map, a petition for an
amendment to the Future Land Use Plan Map affecting the same property, or any
portion thereof, shall not be accepted by the Planning and Zoning Commission
until the expiration of six months from the date of the previous denial. This
section shall not prohibit the Planning and Zoning Commission or the City
Council from initiating an amendment to the Future Land Use Plan Map, affecting
the same property or any portion thereof, at any time following denial of any
petition for amendment of the Future Land Use Plan Map.
(Ord. No. 10-96, § 1, passed 11-8-2010)
SEC. 9-4-335 WHEN CITY COUNCIL TO CONSIDER AMENDMENTS.
   Except as provided under section
9-4-334 and section
9-4-334.1 the City Council shall consider changes and amendments to this
chapter at any meeting during the year in accordance with applicable law.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 07-122, § 2, passed 9-13-2007)
SEC. 9-4-336 WITHDRAWAL OF ZONING AMENDMENT PETITION FROM PLANNING AND ZONING
COMMISSION CONSIDERATION.
   (A)   Petition for zoning amendment may be withdrawn not less than ten
working days prior to the Planning and Zoning Commission meeting date. A
petition that is withdrawn twice within any 12-month period shall not be
considered by the Planning and Zoning Commission until the expiration of 12
months from the date of the last withdrawal.
   (B)   All requests for withdrawal must be filed in writing with the Director
of Planning and Development Services.
   (C)   Reconsideration of withdrawn petitions shall be in accordance with
original submission requirements.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006;
Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 9-4-337 WITHDRAWAL OF ZONING AMENDMENT PETITION FROM CITY COUNCIL
CONSIDERATION FOLLOWING PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION.
   (A)   Petition for zoning amendment may be withdrawn from City Council
legislative hearing provided that the request is made at least 72 hours prior
to the hearing date. If the hearing is continued to a later date, the date of
the original scheduled hearing shall control.
   (B)   All requests for withdrawal must be filed in writing with the City
Manager.
   (C)   Petitions withdrawn in accordance with this section shall not be
reconsidered by the Planning and Zoning Commission until the expiration of six
months following the date of withdrawal.
   (D)   Reconsideration of withdrawn petitions shall be in accordance with
original submission requirements.
   (E)   Original requests referred back to the Planning and Zoning Commission
for reconsideration shall not require a filing fee provided all other
submission requirements are met.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-4-338 EFFECT OF DENIAL OF PETITION ON SUBSEQUENT SIMILAR PETITION.
   When the City Council has denied any petition for zoning amendment, a
petition for the same amendment affecting the same property, or any portion
thereof, shall not be accepted by the Planning and Zoning Commission until the
expiration of six months from the date of the previous denial.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-339 APPEAL TO DECISION OF CITY COUNCIL.
   Appeals from the decisions of City Council shall be made in accordance with
applicable law.
(1971 Code, § 9-4-340) (Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
ARTICLE U. ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT, PENALTIES
SEC. 9-4-349 DIRECTOR OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT SERVICES INTERPRETS.
   It is the intent of this chapter that all questions of interpretation shall
be the responsibility of the Director of Planning and Development Services.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006;
Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 9-4-350 DUTIES OF CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   It is further the intent of this chapter that the duties of the City
Council in connection with this chapter shall be to:
      (1)   Consider, and act upon proposed amendments to this chapter; and
      (2)   Establish a schedule of fees and charges for this chapter as set
forth in the City of Greenville Manual of Fees.
   (B)   The duties of the City Council shall not include hearing and deciding
questions of interpretation and enforcement that arise.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-351 ENFORCEMENT AND APPEALS.
   The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall be responsible for the enforcement of
this chapter. The Zoning Enforcement Officer may provide for the enforcement of
this chapter by means of withholding permits and/or issuance of civil citation
(s) in accordance with section
9-4-356 of this article. He or she may provide for enforcement by instituting
injunction, mandamus or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent
unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion,
moving, maintenance or use; to correct or abate the violation; or to prevent
the occupancy of the building, structure or land. If a decision of the Zoning
Enforcement Officer is questioned, the aggrieved person may appeal the decision
to the Board of Adjustment in accordance with applicable procedure and law.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 97-93, § 4, passed 9-11-1997)
SEC. 9-4-352 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No land, building or structure shall be used, no building, sign or structure
shall be erected, and no existing building, sign or structure shall be moved,
expanded, enlarged or altered until the Director of Planning and Development
Services has approved the use or construction in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006;
Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 9-4-353 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   A certificate of occupancy issued by the Building Inspector is required in
advance of occupancy or use of a building hereafter erected, altered or moved;
and for a change of use of any building or land. It shall be unlawful to occupy
any building or structure without a certificate of occupancy. A certificate of
occupancy shall not be issued unless the proposed use of a building or
structure conforms to the applicable provisions of these regulations.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-354 REMEDIES.
   Where any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building, structure or land
is used in violation of this chapter, the Zoning Enforcement Officer, Building
Inspector, any other appropriate city authority, or any person who would be
damaged by the violation, may, in addition to other remedies, institute an
action for injunction, mandamus or other appropriate action or proceeding to
prevent the violation.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 97-93, § 5, passed 9-11-1997)
SEC. 9-4-355 REVOCATION OF PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES.
   A stop-work order may be issued or a building permit or certificate of
occupancy may be revoked by the Building Inspector when the method of moving,
construction, alteration, repair or use violates any provision of these
regulations or any state or local law, ordinance or resolution. Upon notice,
any further work upon the moving, construction, alteration or repair of a
building or structure, or further use of a building, structure or land shall be
deemed a violation.
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991)
SEC. 9-4-356 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter or a failure to comply
with any of its requirements shall subject the offender to a civil penalty as
follows:
      (1)   In the amount of $50 for each offense on the first day of the
offense;
      (2)   In the amount of $100 for each offense either on the second day of
the offense, or when the offense is a second offense within a 12-month period;
and
      (3)   In the amount of $250 for each offense either on the third day and
on each subsequent day of the offense, or when the offense is the third or
subsequent offense within a 12-month period.
   (B)   Violators shall be issued a written citation which must be paid within
72 hours. If a person fails to pay the civil penalty within 72 hours, the city
may recover the penalty together with all costs by filing a civil action in the
general court of justice in the nature of a suit to collect a debt.
   (C)   This chapter may also be enforced by any appropriate equitable action.
   (D)   Each day that any violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense for purposes of the penalties and remedies specified in this section.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Zoning Enforcement Officer may invoke the
escalating civil penalties authorized by subsection (A) whenever the violation
continues and there has been sufficient time for the violation to be corrected
after notification that the violation exists or whenever the violation has
occurred previously during a 12-month period.
   (E)   Any one, all, or any combination of the foregoing penalties and
remedies may be used to enforce this chapter.
   (F)   The owner, tenant or occupant of any building or land or part thereof
and any architect, builder, contractor, agent, or other person who participates
in, assists, directs, creates, or maintains any situation that is contrary to
the requirements of this chapter may be held responsible for the violation and
suffer the penalties and be subject to the remedies herein provided.
   (G)   In lieu of the civil penalty set forth in subsection (A), a violator
shall be subject to a civil penalty in the amount of $500 for each day whenever
the violation involves either the requirement to maintain flags as set forth in
section
9-4-227(D)(1), or the requirement to maintain or remove balloons each day as
set forth in section
9-4-227(D)(2).
(Ord. No. 2337, § 1, passed 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 98-35, § 1, passed 3-12-1998;
Ord. No. 99-4, § 6, passed 1-14-1999)
   (H)   In lieu of the civil penalty set forth in subsection (A), a violator
shall be subject to a civil penalty in the amount of $25 for each day whenever
the violation involves either:
      (1)   The parking area surface material requirement set forth in section
9-4-248(A);
      (2)   The maximum front yard area parking coverage requirement set forth
in section
9-4-248(D), and (E); or
      (3)   The parking, storage and/or maneuvering requirements set forth in
section
9-4-248(F).
(Ord. No. 05-63, § 1, passed 6-9-2005)
APPENDIX A: TABLE OF USES
   (A)   Index to use table categories contained in this Appendix.
      (1)   General
      (2)   Residential
      (3)   Home Occupations
      (4)   Governmental
      (5)   Agricultural/Mining
      (6)   Recreational/Entertainment
      (7)   Office/Financial/Medical
      (8)   Services
      (9)   Repair
      (10)   Retail Trade
      (11)   Wholesale/Rental/Vehicle - Mobile Home Trade
      (12)   Construction
      (13)   Transportation
      (14)   Manufacturing/Warehousing
      (15)   Other Activities (not otherwise listed - all categories)
   (B)   Key to tables.
      (1)   Permitted uses are indicated by the letter P.
      (2)   Special uses are indicated by the letter S.
      (3)   (a)   Each listed principal use activity is assigned a land use
classification number (LUC#) ranging from 1 to 5 for purposes of determining
required bufferyards.
         (b)   In the case of planned centers containing multiple principal
uses, such as shopping centers, office/commercial unit ownership type
developments and the like, the initial bufferyard requirement shall be based on
the anticipated primary occupancy of such center and such requirement shall
apply to all subsequent uses absent any change in zoning for such planned
center.
      (4)   Each listed accessory use activity is assigned an asterisk (*) in
substitution for a land use classification number. Such, and other accessory
use(s) shall be subject to the land use classification number of the associated
principal use.
   (C)   Tables. The following uses shall be allowed only within the respective
zoning districts as specified herein:
      (1)   General.
 USE LUC# RA20 R15S R9S R6S R6N R9 R6 R6 R6MH MI MS MO MCG MR MCH MRS MUI OR O CD CDF CG CN CH IU I PIU PI
                                      A
   USE        LUC# RA20 R15S R9S R6S R6N R9 R6 R6 R6MH MI MS MO MCG MR MCH MRS MUI OR O CD CDF CG CN CH IU I PIU PI
                                               A
   Accessory
a. use or     *    P    P    P   P   P   P  P  P  P    P  P  P  P   P  P   P   P   P  P P  P   P  P  P  P  P P   P
   building
   Internal
b. service    *                               P  P  P  P     P      P   P  P P  P   P  P  P  P  P P   P
   facilities
   On-
c. premises   *    P    P    P   P   P   P  P  P  P    P  P  P  P   P  P   P   P   P  P P  P   P  P  P  P  P P   P
   signs per
   Article N
   Off-
d. premises   *                                                               P  P  P     
   signs per
   Article N
   Temporary
   uses; of
e. listed                                                     P      P  P   P    P  P  P P   P
   district
   uses
   Retail
f. sales;     *                               P  P  P  P     P      P   P  P P  P   P  P  P  P  P P   P
   incidental
   Incidental
   assembly
   of
   products
   sold at
g. retail or  *                                          S      P      P  P   P    P  P  P P   P
   wholesale
   as an
   accessory
   to
   principal
   uses
 
      (2)   Residential.
 USE LUC# RA20 R15S R9S R6S R6N R9 R6 R6 R6MH MI MS MO MCG MR MCH MRS MUI OR O CD CDF CG CN CH IU I PIU PI
                                       A
    USE                                          LUC# RA20 R15S R9S R6S R6N R9 R6 R6 R6MH MI MS MO MCG MR MCH MRS MUI OR O CD CDF CG CN CH IU I PIU PI
                                                                                   A
a.   Single-family dwelling                       1    P    P    P   P   P   P  P  P  P             P     P           P                
b.   Two-family attached dwelling (duplex)        1    S              P   P  P  P  P             P           P     P                
b    Master Plan Community per Article J              P           P      P  P  P                                               
(1).
c.   Multi-family development per Article I       2                  P     P  P  P          P   P  P      P   P   P  P                
d.   Land use intensity multi-family (LUI)        2                       S  S               S           S     S                
     development rating 50 per Article K
e.   Land use intensity dormitory (LUI)           2                       S  S        S                  S     S                
     development rating 67 per Article K
     Dormitory development (see also §
e    9-4-86(MM), *Only allowed in CDF district
(l). with an Urban Core Overlay District (see     2                                                      S  S*               
     also §
     9-4-86(MM-1))
f.   Residential cluster development per Article  1    P        P   P      P  P  P               P     P                           
     M
g.   Mobile home (see also §                     1    S                       P                                             
     9-4-103)
h.   Mobile home park                             2                           P                                             
     Residential quarters for resident manager,
i.   supervisor or caretaker; excluding mobile    *                                S  S  S  S     S      P   S  S P  S   S    S  S  S S   S
     home
     Residential quarters for resident manager,
j.   supervisor or caretaker; including mobile    *                                                               S  S  S S   S
     homes
k.   Family care home (see also §                1    P    P    P   P   P   P  P  P  P             P     P      P     P                
     9-4-103)
l.   Group care facility                          3                       S  S      P  P  P     S                                
m.   Shelter for homeless or abused (see also §  3                                                   S     S                
     9-4-103)
m(1) Domestic Violence Center (see also §        3                                 P                                       
.    9-4-103(DD))
n.   Retirement center or home                    3    S                   S  S      P  P  P     S           P   P  S                
o    Nursing, convalescent or maternity home;     2    S                 S  S  S               S           S     S                
(1). minor care facility
p.   Board or rooming house                       2                  S     S  S                          P                     
o.   Nursing, convalescent or maternity home;     3    S                           P  P  P     S           P   P  S         S       
     major care facility
q.   Room renting                                 *    P    P    P   P   P   P  P  P  P             P     P   P   P   P  P                
r.   Fraternity or sorority house                 2                       S  S                          S     S                
s.   Vertical mixed-use development               4                               P  P  P  P     P         P  P P  P   P  P  P         
   
(Ord. No. 09-99, §§ 3, 4, passed 3-4-2010; Ord. No. 12-051, § 1, passed 11-8-
2012; Ord. 16-003, § 2, passed 1-14-2016; Ord. 16-010, §§ 1, 2, passed 2-11-
2016; Ord. No. 24-052, § 4, passed 9-12-2024)
      (3)   Home occupations (see all categories).
 
  USE         LUC# RA20 R15S R9S R6S R6N R9 R6 R6 R6MH MI MS MO MCG MR MCH MRS MUI OR O CD CDF CG CN CH IU I PIU PI
                                                A
   Home
   occupation;
a. not         *    S    S    S   S   S   S  S  S  S             S     S           S                
   otherwise
   listed
   Home
b. occupation; *    S    S    S           S  S                               S                
   barber and
   beauty shop
   Home
   occupation;
c. manicure,   *    S                 S  S  S                               S                
   pedicure or
   facial
   salon
   Home
   occupation;
d. bed and     *               S                                                         
   breakfast
   inn
 
(Ord. No. 19-025, § 1, passed 4-11-2019)
      (4)   Governmental.
 USE LUC# RA20 R15S R9S R6S R6N R9 R6 R6 R6MH MI MS MO MCG MR MCH MRS MUI OR O CD CDF CG CN CH IU I PIU PI
                                       A
  USE                                     LUC# RA20 R15S R9S R6S R6N R9 R6 R6 R6MH MI MS MO MCG MR MCH MRS MUI OR O CD CDF CG CN CH IU I PIU PI
                                                                            A
a. Public utility building or use          3    S    S    S   S   S   S  S  S  S      S  S  S   S  S   S   P   S  S P  S   S  S  P  P  P P   P
   City of Greenville municipal government
b. building or use (see also §            3    P    P    P   P   P   P  P  P  P    P  P  P  P   P  P   P   P   P  P P  P   P  P  P  P  P P   P
   9-4-103)
   County or state government building or
c. use not otherwise listed; excluding     3                                 P  P  P     P   S   P   P  P P  P   P    P  P  P P   P
   outside storage and major or minor
   repair
d. Federal government building or use      3                                 P  P  P     P      P   P  P P  P   P    P  P  P P   P
e. County government operation center      3                                                P               P  P  P     
f. Correctional facility                   3                                                                   S     
g. Liquor store, state ABC                 3                                                      P  P   P    P         
 
      (5)   Agricultural/mining.
 USE LUC# RA20 R15S R9S R6S R6N R9 R6 R6 R6MH MI MS MO MCG MR MCH MRS MUI OR O CD CDF CG CN CH IU I PIU PI
                                      A
     USE                                  LUC# RA20 R15S R9S R6S R6N R9 R6 R6 R6MH MI MS MO MCG MR MCH MRS MUI OR O CD CDF CG CN CH IU I PIU PI
                                                                           A
     Farming; agriculture, horticulture,
a.   forestry (see also §                1    P    P    P   P   P   P  P  P  P    P  P  P  P   P  P   P      P  P P  P   P  P  P  P  P P   P
     9-4-103)
b.   Greenhouse or plant nursery;         3    S                                      P   S   P               P  P  P P   P
     including accessory sales
c.   Wayside market for farm products     4    P                                                                    
     produced on site
d.   Farmers market                       4                                                P               P  P       
e.   Kennel (see also §                  4    P                                                           P  P  P P   P
     9-4-103)
f.   Stable; horse only (see also §      4    P    S                                     P                    P  P P   P
     9-4-103)
g.   Stable; per definition (see also §  4    P                                         P                    P  P P   P
     9-4-103)
     Animal boarding not otherwise
h.   listed; outside facility, as an      4    P                                         P                  P  P  P P   P
     accessory or principal use
     Livestock sales pavilion,
i.   auditorium, yard, distribution or    5                                                                   P    P
     transhipment facility
     Quarrying, mining, excavation and
j.   works including material storage and 5                                                                   P     
     distribution; sand, stone, gravel
k.   Sand mining (see also item j. above) 5                                                               S  S       
k    Temporary sand mining (see also §       S                                                                    
(1). 9-4-86(SS))
l.   Beekeeping; minor use (see also §   1    P    P    P      P   P  P  P  P             P     P   P        P   P    P  P  P     
     9-4-103)
m.   Beekeeping; major use                4    S                                            P               S  S  S     
n.   Solar energy facility                4    S                                                                    
 
(Ord. No. 10-106, §§2, 3, passed 12-9-2010; Ord. No. 13-014, §2, passed 4-11-
2013; Ord. 15-059, § 2, passed 10-8-2015; Ord. No. 18-036, §1, passed 6-14-
2018)
      (6)   Recreational/entertainment.
 USE LUC# RA20 R15S R9S R6S R6N R9 R6 R6 R6MH MI MS MO MCG MR MCH MRS MUI OR O CD CDF CG CN CH IU I PIU PI
                                       A
    USE                                                LUC# RA20 R15S R9S R6S R6N R9 R6 R6 R6MH MI MS MO MCG MR MCH MRS MUI OR O CD CDF CG CN CH IU I PIU PI
                                                                                         A
a.   Golf course; 18-hole regulation length (see also §1    S    S    S   S      S  S  S                    S                           
     9-4-103)
a    Golf course; 9-hole regulation length (see also § 1    S    S    S   S      S  S  S                    S                           
(1). 9-4-103)
b.   Golf course; par three                             2                                                               P         
c.   Golf driving range                                 3                                                               P         
c    Tennis club; indoor and outdoor facilities         3    S    S    S   S      S  S  S               S     S   P   S            P         
(1).
d.   Game center                                        3                                                      S  S   S    S         
e.   Miniature golf or putt-putt course                 3                                                               P  S  S     
f.   Public park or recreational facility               2    P    P    P   P   P   P  P  P  P    P  P  P  P   P  P   P   P   P  P P  P   P  P  P  P  P P   P
g.   Private noncommercial park or recreational         2    P    P    P   P   P   P  P  P  P        P     P     P   P   P   P  P         P  P P   P
     facility
h.   Commercial recreation; indoor only, not otherwise  3                                                   S   P     P    P         
     listed
i.   Commercial recreation; indoor and outdoor, not     4                                                P        S       P  S  S     
     otherwise listed
j.   Bowling alleys                                     3                                                P      P     P    P         
k.   Firearm ranges; indoor or outdoor                  4                                                                 S  S S   S
l.   Billiard parlor or pool hall                       4                                                P      S  S   S    S         
m.   Bar (see also                                      4                                                      S  S   S    S         
     9-4-86)
n.   Theater; movie or drama, indoor only               3                                                P        P   P    P         
o.   Theater; movie or drama, including outdoor         4                                                      P         P         
     facilities
p.   Circus, carnival or fairs                          4                                                                 P  P     
     Circus, carnival or fair, temporary only (see also
q.   §                                                 4                                                           P    P         
     9-4-103)
r.   Adult uses                                         5                                                               S         
s.   Athletic club; indoor only                         3                                   S  P     P            P  S   P  P  P         
t.   Athletic club; indoor and outdoor facilities       3                                     S     S      P      S     S  S  P         
u.   Internet sweepstakes business (see also §         4                                                           S    S         
     9-4-103)
 
(Ord. No. 09-27, § 13, passed 4-9-2009; Ord. No. 12-069, § 1, passed 12-13-
2012; Ord. No. 23-061, §§ 7, 8, passed 8-10-2023)
      (7)   Office/financial/medical.
 USE LUC# RA20 R15S R9S R6S R6N R9 R6 R6 R6MH MI MS MO MCG MR MCH MRS MUI OR O CD CDF CG CN CH IU I PIU PI
                                       A
  USE           LUC# RA20 R15S R9S R6S R6N R9 R6 R6 R6MH MI MS MO MCG MR MCH MRS MUI OR O CD CDF CG CN CH IU I PIU PI
                                                  A
   Office;
   professional
a. and business, 3                                 S  P  P     P      P   P  P P  P   P  P  P  S  S     
   not otherwise
   listed
   Operation/
b. processing    3                                                P   P   P     P    P  P  P P   P
   center
   Office;
   customer
   service, not
   otherwise
   listed,
   including
c. accessory     3                                          S      P   P   P  P   S    P  P  P P   P
   service
   delivery
   vehicle
   parking and
   indoor
   storage
   Bank, savings
   and loan or
d. other savings 3                                 S  P  P     P      P   P  P P  P   P  P  P         
   or investment
   institutions
   Medical,
   dental,
   ophthalmology
e. or similar    3                               P  P  P       P         P  P P  P   P  P  P         
   clinic, not
   otherwise
   listed
   Veterinary
   clinic or
   animal
   hospital (see
f. also animal   4                                          P      P   S   P     S    P  P       
   boarding;
   outside
   facility,
   kennel and
   stable)
   Catalogue
g. processing    3                                                P      P     P    P  P  P P   P
   center
   Research and
h. development                                                   P                        
   facility
 
      (8)   Services.
 USE LUC# RA20 R15S R9S R6S R6N R9 R6 R6 R6MH MI MS MO MCG MR MCH MRS MUI OR O CD CDF CG CN CH IU I PIU PI
                                       A
    USE                                               LUC# RA20 R15S R9S R6S R6N R9 R6 R6 R6MH MI MS MO MCG MR MCH MRS MUI OR O CD CDF CG CN CH IU I PIU PI
                                                                                        A
a.   Child day care facilities                         3    S                 S  S  S  S    S  S  S  S   S  S      P   S  S S  S   S  S  S  S  S S   S
b.   Adult day care facilities                         3    S                 S  S  S  S    S  S  S  S   S  S         S  S S  S   S  S  S  S  S S   S
c.   Funeral home                                      3                                                   P  P P  P   P    P         
d.   Cemetery                                          3    S    S    S   S   S   S  S  S  S                                             
e.   Barber or beauty shop                             3                                   S  P     P      P   P  P P  P   P  P  P         
f.   Manicure, pedicure or facial salon                3                                   S  P     P      P   P   P  P   P  P  P         
     School; junior and senior high (see also §
g.   9-4-86(W) and §                                  3    S    S    S   S      S  S  S               S     S      P  P   P         S       
     9-4-103)
     School; elementary (see also §
h.   9-4-86(W) and §                                  3    S    S    S   S      S  S  S               S     S      P  P   P         S       
     9-4-103)
     School; kindergarten or nursery (see also §
i.   9-4-86(W) and §                                  3    S    S    S   S      S  S  S               S     S      P  P S  P         S       
     9-4-103)
j.   College and other institutions of higher learning 3                               P  S  S       S      P   P  S P                  
k.   Business or trade schools                         3                                                P   P   P  P   P             
l.   Convention center; private                        3                                 S  S       S      P   S  S S  S   S    S  S  S S   S
m.   Multi-purpose center                              3                       S  S                       P                        
n.   Auditorium                                        3                                   P       P      P   P   P  P       P  P  P P   P
o.   Church or place of worship (see also §           2    P    P    P   P   P   P  P  P  P             P  P   P   P   P  P P  P   P  P  P  S       
     9-4-103)
p.   Library                                           3                                                P   P  P P  P                
q.   Museum                                            3                                                P   P  P P  P   P    P         
r.   Art gallery                                       3                                   P       P      P   P  P P  P   P    P         
     Hotel, motel, bed and breakfast inn; limited stay
s.   lodging (see also residential quarters for        3                                 S  S       P      P   S   P  P   P    P  P  P P   P
     resident manager, supervisor or caretaker and §
     9-4-103)
     Hotel, motel, bed and breakfast inn; extended
s    stay lodging (see also residential quarters for   3                                 S  S       S                       S  S S   S
(1). resident manager, supervisor or caretaker and §
     9-4-103)
t.   Guest house for a college or other institution of 3               S        S  S                                               
     higher learning
u.   Art studio including art and supply sales         3                                   P       P      P   P  P P  P   P  P  P         
v.   Photography studio including photo and supply     3                                     P     P      P   P  P P  P   P    P         
     sales
w.   Digital broadcast studio (see also                3                                                P           P  P  P         
     9-4-103)
x.   Dance studio                                      3                                                P   P  P P  S     P    P       
     Television and/or radio broadcast facilities,
y.   including receiving and transmission equipment    3                                             S         P         P  P  P     
     and towers or cellular telephone and wireless
     communication towers
     Television and/or radio broadcast facilities,
     including receiving and transmission equipment
y    and towers not exceeding 200 feet in height or
(1). cellular telephone and wireless communication     3                                                           P             
     towers not exceeding 200 feet in height (see also
     §
     9-4-103)
     Television and/or radio broadcast facilities
     including receiving and transmission equipment
y    and towers not exceeding 120 feet in height or
(2). cellular telephone and wireless communication     3                                                   P                     
     towers not exceeding 120 feet in height (see also
     §
     9-4-103)
     Television and/or radio broadcast facilities,
     including receiving and transmission equipment
y(3) and towers or cellular telephone and wireless     3                               P  P  P  P     P                              
     communications towers not exceeding 80 feet in
     height (see also §
     9-4-103)
y(4) Distributed Antenna System (See also                                             P  P  P  P   P  P   P   P   P  P P  P   P    P  P  P P   P
     9-4-103(Q))
z.   Printing or publishing service including graphic  3                                     P           P      P  P   P    P  P  P P   P
     art, maps, newspapers, magazines and books
aa.  Catering service including food preparation (see  3                                     P     P      P      P  P   P  S  P  P  P P   P
     also restaurant; conventional and fast food)
bb.  Civic organizations                               3                                                P   P  S P  S       P  P       
cc.  Trade or business organizations                   3                                                P   P  S P  S       P         
dd.  Massage establishment                             3                                                               S         
ee.  Hospital                                          3                               P  P  P             P                        
ff.  Mental health, emotional or physical              3                               P  P               P   S                     
     rehabilitation day program facility
ff   Mental health, emotional, or physical             3                               P  P  S  S     S      P   S   S  S       S         
(1). rehabilitation day program facility
gg.  Vocational rehabilitation center                  3                                 S         S      P                 P  P P   P
hh.  Exercise and weight loss studios; indoor only     3                                   S  P     P      P      P  S   P  P  P         
ii.  Wellness center, indoor and outdoor facilities    3                                   P  P     P      P                        
     Health services not otherwise listed including
jj.  but not limited to speech, physical and           3                               P  P  P  P     P      P                        
     occupational therapy
kk.  Launderette; household users                      3                                     P     P      P      P  P   P  P  P         
ll.  Dry cleaners; household users                     3                                     P     P            P  P   P  P  P         
ll   Dry cleaners; household users; drop-off/pick-up   3                                   S             P                        
(1). station only
mm.  Commercial laundries; linen supply                4                                                        P       P  P       
nn.  Industrial laundries                              4                                                                 P  P P   P
oo.  Clothes alteration or shoe repair shop            3                                                P      P  P   P    P         
pp.  Automobile wash                                   4                                     P     P              P   P    P         
qq.  Pet grooming facility (see also                   3                                     P     P            P  P   P  P  P         
     9-4-103
rr.  School; small, private                            3    P                 P  P                            P        P  P  P         
ss.  Tattooing                                         3                                                P   P   P  P   P    P         
tt.  Microblading                                      3                                   S  P     P      P   P  P P  P   P  P  P         
uu.  Reserved                                          5                                                                        
vv.  Data processing center                            4                                                                 P  P P   P
(Ord. No. 09-75, § 2, passed 9-10-2009; Ord. No. 10-22, § 1, 3-4-2010; Ord. No.
12-044, § 1, passed 10-11-2012; Ord. No. 14-058, 1, passed 9-11-2014; Ord. No.
15-041, §§ 1 - 3, passed 8-13-2015; Ord. No. 16-066, § 3, passed 9-8-2016; Ord.
No. 18-035, § 1, passed 6-14-2018; Ord. 19-051, § 2, passed 10-10-2019; Ord.
19-052, § 2, passed 10-10-2019; Ord. 21-019, § 17, passed 4-12-2021; Ord. 21-
031, § 1, passed 6-21-2021; Ord. No. 22-013, §§ 2, 3, 4, 8, passed 1-24-2022;
Ord. No. 22-014, §§ 2, 3, passed 1-24-2022; Ord. No. 23-073, § 1, passed 10-19-
2023; Ord. No. 24-030, § 2, passed 5-9-2024)
      (9)   Repair.
 USE LUC# RA20 R15S R9S R6S R6N R9 R6 R6 R6MH MI MS MO MCG MR MCH MRS MUI OR O CD CDF CG CN CH IU I PIU PI
                                       A
  USE          LUC# RA20 R15S R9S R6S R6N R9 R6 R6 R6MH MI MS MO MCG MR MCH MRS MUI OR O CD CDF CG CN CH IU I PIU PI
                                                 A
   Major
   repair; as
a. an accessory 4                                                        S   S    S  S  P S   P
   or principal
   use
   Minor
   repair; as
b. an accessory 4                                          S            S  S   S  S  P  P  P P   P
   or principal
   use
   Upholsterer;
   automobile,
   truck, boat
c. or other     4                                                               P  P  P P   P
   vehicle,
   trailer or
   van
d. Upholsterer, 4                                                        P       P  P  P P   P
   furniture
   Furniture
   refinishing,
e. stripping or 4                                                                   P    P
   repair
   facility
   Appliance;
   household
f. and office   4                                                      P  P       P  P  P P   P
   equipment
   repair
   Jewelry,
   watch,
g. eyewear or   3                                     P     P            P  P   P    P         
   other
   personal
   item repair
   Appliance;
   commercial
   and
h. industrial   4                                                                 P  P P   P
   equipment
   repair not
   otherwise
   listed
 
      (10)   Retail trade.
 USE LUC# RA20 R15S R9S R6S R6N R9 R6 R6 R6MH MI MS MO MCG MR MCH MRS MUI OR O CD CDF CG CN CH IU I PIU PI
                                       A
   USE                                  LUC# RA20 R15S R9S R6S R6N R9 R6 R6 R6MH MI MS MO MCG MR MCH MRS MUI OR O CD CDF CG CN CH IU I PIU PI
                                                                          A
    Miscellaneous retail sales;
a.  nondurable goods, not otherwise      3                                     P     P      P      P  P   P    P         
    listed
b.  Gasoline or automotive fuel sales;   4                                          P            S  S   S  S  P  P  P P   P
    accessory or principal use, retail
c.  Wine and beer store (see also §     4                                     S     S      P      S  S   S  S  P         
    9-4-103)
d.  Pharmacy                             3                                 P  P  P     P      P      P  P   P  P  P         
e.  Convenience store (see also gasoline 4                                          P      P      P  P   P  P  P         
    sales)
f.  Office and school supply, equipment  3                                   S  P     P            P  P   P    P         
    sales
g.  Fish market; excluding processing or 3                                                      S  S   P    P         
    packing
h.  Restaurant; conventional             3                                 S  S  P     P      P   S   P  P   P  P  P  P  P P   P
i.  Restaurant; fast food (see also §   4                                   S  P     P            P  P   P  S  P  P  P P   P
    9-4-103)
    Restaurant and/or dining and
j.  entertainment establishment;         4                                 S  S  S     S      P   S   S  S   S  S  S  S  S S   S
    regulated outdoor activities
    Medical supply sales and rental of
k.  medically related products including 3                                 S  S  P     P                 P    P         
    uniforms and related accessories
    Electronic; stereo, radio, computer,
l.  television and the like, sales and   3                                     P           P      P  P   P    P         
    accessory repair
    Appliance; household use, sales and
m.  accessory repair, excluding outside  3                                                      P  P   P    P         
    storage
    Appliance; commercial use, sales and
n.  accessory repair, excluding outside  3                                                      S  P   S    S         
    storage
    Appliance; household, commercial or
o.  industrial use, sales and accessory  4                                                               P         
    repair, including outside storage
p.  Furniture and home furnishing sales  3                                          P            P  P   P    P         
    not otherwise listed
q.  Floor covering, carpet and wall      3                                                      P  P   P    P         
    covering sales
r.  Antique sales, excluding vehicles    3                                                      P  P   P    P         
s.  Book or card store, news stand       3                                   P  P     P      P   P  P P  P   P    P         
t.  Hobby or craft shop                  3                                   S  P     P            P  S   P    P         
u.  Pet shop (see also animal boarding;  3                                                      P  S   P  S  P         
    outside facility)
v.  Video or music store; record, tape,  3                                     P     P            P  P   P    P         
    compact disk and the like sales
w.  Florist                              3                                 P  P  P     P      P   P  P P  P   P    P         
x.  Sporting goods sales and rental shop 3                                                      P  P   P    P         
y.  Auto part sales (see also major and  3                                          S            P  P   P    P         
    minor repair)
z.  Flea market                          3                                                               S         
aa. Pawnbroker                           3                                                      S     P    P         
    Lawn and garden supply and household
bb. implement sales and accessory        3                                                           P    P         
    service
cc. Farm supply and commercial implement 4                                                               P  P  P P   P
    sales
dd. Industrial implement, machinery or   4                                                                   P    P
    tool sales
    Christmas tree sales lot; temporary
ee. only (see also §                    *                                                   P   P  P   P    P         
    9-4-103)
ff. Tobacco shop (Class 1) (see also §  4                                          S            S  S   S    S         
    9-4-103)
gg. Tobacco shop (Class 2) (see also §  4                                                           S    S         
    9-4-103)
hh. Hookah café (see also §            4                                                      S  S   S    S         
    9-4-103)
ii. Microbrewery (see also               4                                                P      S  S   S    S         
    9-4-86
jj  Wine, beer and keg store (see also   4                                                             S           
    9-4-86)
kk  Live performance theater             4                                                P      S                  
ll  Microdistillery                      4                                                P      S  S   S    S         
mm  Grocery store5                       4                                     P     P            P  P   P  P  P         
 
(Ord. No. 09-27, § 14, passed 4-9-2009; Ord. No. 11-055, § 1, passed 9-8-2011;
Ord. No. 13-007, § 2, passed 2-14-2013; Ord. No. 14-048,  2, passed 8-14-2014;
Ord. 15-019, § 2, passed 4-9-2015; Ord. 15-020, § 2, passed 4-9-2015; Ord. 15-
051, § 2, passed 9-10-2015; Ord. No. 22-013, § 9, passed 1-24-2022; Ord. No.
23-060, §§ 3, 4, 5, passed 8-10-2023; Ord. No. 23-061, § 6, passed 8-10-2023)
      (11)   Wholesale/rental/vehicle-mobile home trade.
 USE LUC# RA20 R15S R9S R6S R6N R9 R6 R6 R6MH MI MS MO MCG MR MCH MRS MUI OR O CD CDF CG CN CH IU I PIU PI
                                       A
  USE           LUC# RA20 R15S R9S R6S R6N R9 R6 R6 R6MH MI MS MO MCG MR MCH MRS MUI OR O CD CDF CG CN CH IU I PIU PI
                                                  A
   Wholesale;
   durable and
a. nondurable    4                                                               P  P  P P   P
   goods, not
   otherwise
   listed
   Rental of
   home
   furniture,
   appliances or
b. electronics   3                                                           P    P         
   and medically
   related
   products (see
   also division
   (10)k.)
   Rental of
   clothes and
c. accessories;  3                                                      P  P   P    P         
   formal wear,
   and the like
   Rental of
   automobiles,
   noncommercial
   trucks or
d. trailers,     4                                                      P     S    P  P  P P   P
   recreational
   vehicles,
   motorcycles
   and boats
   Rental of
   tractors and/
   or trailers,
e. or other      4                                                               P  P  P P   P
   commercial or
   industrial
   vehicles or
   machinery
   Automobile,
   truck,
   recreational
   vehicle,
   motorcycle
f. and boat      4                                                        P   S    P         
   sales and
   service (see
   also major
   and minor
   repair)
   Mobile home
   sales
g. including     4                                                               P  S       
   accessory
   mobile home
   office
 
      (12)   Construction.
 
  USE                                    LUC# RA20 R15S R9S R6S R6N R9 R6 R6 R6MH MI MS MO MCG MR MCH MRS MUI OR O CD CDF CG CN CH IU I PIU PI
                                                                           A
   Licensed contractor; general,
a. electrical, plumbing, mechanical, etc. 3                                          P         P   P  P       P  P  P P   P
   excluding outside storage
   Licensed contractor; general
b. electrical, plumbing, mechanical, etc. 4                                                               P  P  P P   P
   including outside storage
   Construction office; temporary,
c. including modular office (see also §  *    P    P    P   P   P   P  P  P  P    P  P  P  P   P  P   P   P   P  P P  P   P  P  P  P  P P   P
   9-4-103)
   Building supply; lumber and materials
d. sales, plumbing and/or electrical      4                                                        S         P  P P   P
   supply including outside storage
   Building supply; lumber and materials
e. sales, plumbing and/or electrical      4                                                        P   P    S  P  P P   P
   supply excluding outside storage
f. Hardware store                         3                                          P            P  P   P    P  P  P P   P
 
(Ord. No. 21-051, § 1, passed 9-9-2021)
      (13)   Transportation.
 USE LUC# RA20 R15S R9S R6S R6N R9 R6 R6 R6MH MI MS MO MCG MR MCH MRS MUI OR O CD CDF CG CN CH IU I PIU PI
                                       A
  USE          LUC# RA20 R15S R9S R6S R6N R9 R6 R6 R6MH MI MS MO MCG MR MCH MRS MUI OR O CD CDF CG CN CH IU I PIU PI
                                                 A
   Railroad
   freight or
a. distribution 5                                                                 P  P P   P
   and/or
   passenger
   station
   Bus station;
b. passenger    4                                                P      P  P                
   and related
   freight
   Taxi or
c. limousine    3                                                      P  P   P    P  S       
   service
   Truck
d. terminal or  4                                                                 P  P P   P
   distribution
   center
   Parcel
e. delivery     4                                                P      P  P   P  P  P  P  P P   P
   service
f. Ambulance    3                               P  P  P  P     P              P       P  P  P P   P
   service
   Airport and
g. related      5                                                                 P  P P   P
   activities;
   private
   Parking lot
   or
h. structure;   3                               P  P         P      P   S   P  S   P    P  P  P P   P
   principal
   use
 
(Ord. No. 21-031, § 2, passed 6-21-2021; Ord. No. 21-051, § 2, passed 9-9-2021)
      (14)   Manufacturing/warehousing.
 USE LUC# RA20 R15S R9S R6S R6N R9 R6 R6 R6MH MI MS MO MCG MR MCH MRS MUI OR O CD CDF CG CN CH IU I PIU PI
                                       A
   USE             LUC# RA20 R15S R9S R6S R6N R9 R6 R6 R6MH MI MS MO MCG MR MCH MRS MUI OR O CD CDF CG CN CH IU I PIU PI
                                                     A
a.  Ice plant and   5                                                               P  P  P P   P
    freezer lockers
    Dairy;
    production,
b.  storage and     5                                                               P  P  P P   P
    shipment
    facilities
    Bakery;
    production,
c.  storage and     5                                     P     P              P   P    P  P  P P   P
    shipment
    facilities
    Stone or
d.  monument        5                                                               S  P  P S   P
    cutting,
    engraving
    Mobile home
    repair or
e.  rework          5                                                                   P     
    facility; no
    sales allowed
    Junkyard,
    automobile
f.  graveyard or    5                                                                   S     
    materials
    reclamation
    facility
    Cabinet,
    woodwork or
    frame shop;
g.  excluding       4                                                      P  S       P  P  P P   P
    furniture
    manufacturing
    or upholstery
    Engraving;
h.  metal, glass or 4                                                P      P         P  P  P P   P
    wood
    Moving and
    storage of
i.  nonhazardous    4                                          P                     P         
    materials;
    excluding
    outside storage
    Moving and
j.  storage;        5                                                               S  P  P P   P
    including
    outside storage
    Mini-storage
    warehouse,
k.  household;      4                                          P                 S    P  P  P P   P
    excluding
    outside storage
    Warehouse or
    mini-storage
    warehouse,
1.  commercial or   5                                                               S  P  P P   P
    industrial;
    including
    outside storage
    Warehouse;
    accessory to
    approved
    commercial or
m.  industrial uses 4                                          S      P               P  P  P P   P
    within the
    district;
    excluding
    outside storage
    Petroleum
    (bulk) storage
n.  facility;       5                                                                   P    S
    excluding
    retail sales
    Feed and grain
    elevator,
o.  mixing,         5                                                                 P  P S    
    redrying,
    storage or
    sales facility
    Tobacco
p.  redrying or     5                                                                 P  P P   P
    processing
    plant
    Fertilizer or
q   lime            5                                                                   P    S
    manufacture or
    bulk storage
    Manufacturing
    of acid, toxic
    chemicals or
    other hazardous
r.  materials or    5                                                                   P    S
    explosive
    products not
    otherwise
    listed
    Manufacture of
    nonhazardous
    products;
    general,
    including
s.  nonhazardous    4                                                P                 P  P P   P
    and nontoxic
    chemicals and/
    or materials
    not otherwise
    listed
    Manufacture of
    nonhazardous
    medical
t.  supplies or     4                                 S         S      P                 P  P P   P
    medical
    products,
    including
    distribution
    Tire recapping
u.  or retreading   4                                                               P  P  P S   P
    plant
    Bottling or
    packing plant
v.  for             5                                                                 P  P P   P
    nonhazardous
    materials or
    products
    Bottling or
    packaging plant
    for hazardous,
w.  flammable or    5                                                                   P    S
    explosive
    materials or
    products
    Sanitary
    landfill or
x.  incinerator;    5                                                                   S    S
    public or
    private
    Recycling
y.  collection      3                                                      S         S  P  P S   P
    station or
    facilities
    Metallurgy,
z.  steel           5                                                                 S  P S   P
    fabrication,
    welding
    Meat, poultry
aa. or fish         5                                                                   P    S
    processing or
    packing plant
bb. Slaughterhouse  5                                                                   P     
    Manufacture of
    pharmaceutical,
    biological,
    botanical,
cc. medicinal, and  5                                                P                 P  P P   P
    cosmetic
    products, and
    related
    materials
 
      (15)   Other activities (not otherwise listed - all categories).
 
  USE          LUC# RA20 R15S R9S R6S R6N R9 R6 R6 R6MH MI MS MO MCG MR MCH MRS MUI OR O CD CDF CG CN CH IU I PIU PI
                                                 A
   Other
   activities;
a. personal     3                                                P   S   S  S   S    S         
   services not
   otherwise
   listed
   Other
   activities;
b. professional 3                                                P   S   S  S   S    S         
   services not
   otherwise
   listed
   Other
   activities;
c. commercial   3                                                P      S  S   S    S  S  S S   S
   services not
   otherwise
   listed
   Other
   activities;
d. retail sales 3                                                P      S  S   S    S         
   not
   otherwise
   listed
   Other
   activities;
e. industrial   4                                                P                 S  S S   S
   uses not
   otherwise
   listed
 
 
CHAPTER 5: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
Article A. General Provisions
   
9-5-1   Title
   
9-5-2   Purpose
   
9-5-3   Authority
   
9-5-4   Jurisdiction
   
9-5-5   Definitions
   
9-5-6   Lots created contrary to subdivision regulations
   
9-5-7   Lots created prior to enactment of subdivision regulations
   
9-5-8   Relation of subdivision regulations to zoning and other regulations
   
9-5-9   Application of subdivision regulations; effect
   
9-5-10   Reserved
   
9-5-11   Effect of final plat approval on status of dedication; acceptance
   
9-5-12   Effect of application of subdivision regulations on erection of
buildings
   
9-5-13   Effect of application of subdivision regulations on naming streets
   
9-5-14   Prerequisite to plat application
   
9-5-15   Approval of public services
   
9-5-16   Planning and Zoning Commission to act in lieu of City Council
   
9-5-17   Subdivision Review Board to act in lieu of Planning and Zoning
Commission
   
9-5-18   Transition regulations for developing property brought into
extraterritorial jurisdiction
   
9-5-19   City review and approval of exempt plats for recordation
Article B. Procedure for Review and Approval of Subdivision Plats
   
9-5-41   General procedures
   
9-5-42   Preliminary and final plats; required certification
   
9-5-43   Preliminary plats; approval generally
   
9-5-44   Same; submission
   
9-5-45   Same; format; general information; site information
   
9-5-46   Same; review procedure
   
9-5-47   Same; departmental findings
   
9-5-48   (Reserved)
   
9-5-49   Same; construction plan required; authority; contents
   
9-5-50   Same; construction plan to coincide with preliminary plat; minor
alterations; resubmission of plat copies reflecting alterations
   
9-5-51   Final plat; generally
   
9-5-52   Same; format; general information; site information
   
9-5-53   Same; review procedure
   
9-5-54   Same; departmental findings
   
9-5-55   Same; disposition of copies
   
9-5-56   Same; recordation
   
9-5-57   No responsibility, liability for improvements prior to acceptance
   
9-5-58   Resubdivision procedure
   
9-5-59   Disapproval of plats resulting from violation of tree protection prior
to development regulations
Article C. Design Standards for Subdivision Plats
   
9-5-80   Relation to Comprehensive Transportation Plan
   
9-5-81   Street design standards
   
9-5-82   Utility easements
   
9-5-83   Lot lines and utility easements
   
9-5-84   Projection of easements to adjacent undeveloped property
   
9-5-85   Multipurpose easements
   
9-5-86   Minor drainage easements
   
9-5-87   Major utilities, substation sites and the like
   
9-5-88   Preservation of significant water areas; intent
   
9-5-89   Same; maintenance of natural waterways and water areas; relationship
to greenway plan
   
9-5-90   Same; changes in location or extent of significant natural waterways
and water areas
   
9-5-91   Drainage
   
9-5-92   Protection from flooding and other adverse water conditions
   
9-5-93   Sedimentation and erosion control
   
9-5-94   Floodprone or flood hazard areas
   
9-5-95   Block standards; general design
   
9-5-96   Pedestrian crosswalks within blocks
   
9-5-97   Lots; general design
   
9-5-98   Double frontage lots
   
9-5-99   Driveways; condition of lot access
   
9-5-100   Public sites and open spaces; relation to quasi-public and private
open space network; intent
   
9-5-101   Reservations for recreation areas; generally
   
9-5-102   Same; minimum area
   
9-5-103   Same; waiver provisions
   
9-5-104   Same; authority of Planning and Zoning Commission to seek advice
   
9-5-105   Same; owner to give option to city; provisions of option
   
9-5-106   Same; relation to bikeway plan
Article D. [Reserved]
Article E. Required Improvements
   
9-5-115   Conformance with the Manual of Standard Designs and Details and the
Manual for the Design and Construction of Water and Waste Water System
Extensions for Greenville Utilities Commission
   
9-5-116   Permanent monuments and markers
   
9-5-117   Streets and alleys; grading and surfacing
   
9-5-118   Same; curbs and gutters
   
9-5-119   Street signs
   
9-5-120   Street lights (public)
   
9-5-121   Street trees
   
9-5-122   Ground cover
   
9-5-123   Sidewalks; where to be installed
   
9-5-124   Drainage; conformance with Manual of Standard Designs and Details
   
9-5-125   All subdivisions to be adequately drained
   
9-5-126   Public water supply required
   
9-5-127   Public sanitary sewerage required; exceptions
   
9-5-128   General erosion protection; conservation of topsoil; preservation of
desirable vegetation
   
9-5-129   Fire protection facilities
   
9-5-130   Wire installation to be underground; exceptions
Article F. Completion of Improvements; Maintenance Guarantees
   
9-5-141   Satisfactory completion of improvements; offers to dedicate;
maintenance guarantees; prior to approval of final plats
   
9-5-142   Performance guarantee
   
9-5-143   Type of guarantee
   
9-5-144   Plans and construction programs
   
9-5-145   Amount and terms of performance guarantee; time limitations
   
9-5-146   Inspections; inspection reports
   
9-5-147   Action on inspection reports; reports indicating satisfaction of
requirements
   
9-5-148   Same; reports indicating failure to satisfy requirements
   
9-5-149   Same; reports indicating unsatisfactory progress
   
9-5-150   Actions following failure to complete work under performance
guarantee
   
9-5-151   Acceptance of guarantee of other governmental agency or utility
   
9-5-152   Building permits and certificates of occupancy prior to completion of
improvements
Article G. Amendments
   
9-5-161   Planning and Zoning Commission review; recommendation
   
9-5-162   Public notice and hearing
   
9-5-163   Limitation on resubmittal
Article H. Violations, Penalties and Remedies
   
9-5-171   Penalties for violation
   
9-5-172   Remedies
Article I. Variances
   
9-5-181   Authorized; procedure
Article J. Legal Status and Effective Date
   
9-5-191   Separability
   
9-5-192   Repeal
   
9-5-193   Effective date
Cross-reference:
   Flood Damage Prevention, see
Title 9, Chapter 6
   Planning and Zoning Commission, see
Title 9, Chapter 2
   Public Utilities, see
Title 8, Chapter 1
   Storm drainage, see
Title 9, Chapter 1
   Streets and Sidewalks, see
Title 6, Chapter 2
   Trees, see
Title 6, Chapter 5
Editor’s note:
   Ord. No. 1941, § 1, adopted Jan. 12, 1989, deleted former Ch. 5 and set out
a new chapter on subdivision regulations. Former Ch. 5 consisted of §§ 9-5-1—9-
5-18, 9-5-41—9-5-71; 9-5-81—9-5-111, 9-5-131—9-5-146, 9-5-161—9-5-172, 9-5-
181—9-5-183, 9-5-191, 9-5-192, 9-5-201, 9-5-211—9-5-213; and derived from Ord.
No. 959, adopted May 8, 1980.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt, see G.S. 160D-801 et seq.
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 9-5-1 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Subdivision Regulations
for Greenville, North Carolina,” and may be referred to as the “subdivision
regulations” or “this chapter.”
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-2 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Public health, safety, economy, good order, appearances, convenience
and the general welfare require the harmonious, orderly and progressive
development of land within the city and its extraterritorial planning
jurisdiction. In furtherance of this intent, regulation of land subdivision by
the city has the following purposes, among others:
      (1)   To encourage economically sound and stable development in the city
and its environs;
      (2)   To ensure the timely provision of required streets, utilities and
other facilities and services to new land developments;
      (3)   To ensure adequate provision of safe, convenient vehicular and
pedestrian traffic access and circulation in and through new land developments;
      (4)   To ensure provision of needed public open spaces and building sites
in new land developments through the dedication or reservation of land for
recreational, educational and other public purposes or the provision of funds
in lieu of dedication;
      (5)   To ensure, in general, the wise and timely development of new areas
in harmony with comprehensive plans as prepared and adopted by the city;
      (6)   To ensure accurate public records of land ownership, title
transfer, the effective conduct of public and private business and the
protection of private property rights; and
      (7)   To provide for and protect the option of the consumer to use
alternative energy sources by such means as protecting solar access to promote
site planning and design which demonstrates a concern for increased energy
conservation in residential structures and increased use alternative energy
systems to encourage the development of efficient street systems which are
compatible with the aforementioned emphases on conservation and resource
development and which facilitate development of alternative transportation
systems; while not excluding other methods which can be demonstrated to
facilitate energy efficient land use.
   (B)   These regulations are intended to provide for the harmonious
development of the city and its environs, and in particular:
      (1)   For coordinating streets within new subdivisions with other
existing planned streets or official adopted Highway Map of the Comprehensive
Transportation Plan street;
      (2)   For appropriate shapes and sizes of blocks and lots;
      (3)   For providing land for streets, school sites and recreational areas
and providing easements for utilities other public facilities and services;
      (4)   For distribution of population and traffic which will tend to
create conditions favorable to health, safety, convenience, prosperity or
general welfare; and
      (5)   For appropriate development of energy standards that lead to energy
conservation and use of broad alternative energy resources.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 9-5-3 AUTHORITY.
   These regulations are enacted in accordance with the provisions of the North
Carolina General Statutes, G.S. Chapter 160D, Article 8; G.S. Chapter 39,
Article 5A; Chapter 47-30 through 47-32.1; G.S. Chapter 47A; G.S. Chapter 47C;
and G.S. Chapter 136, Article 7 as amended.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-5-4 JURISDICTION.
   The regulations contained herein, as provided in G.S. 160D-201, shall govern
each and every subdivision within the jurisdiction of the City of Greenville.
Furthermore, the extraterritorial planning jurisdiction specified in the
adopted ordinance has been drawn on a map and set forth in a written
description, as amended, which has been duly recorded in the office of the
Register of Deeds.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-5-5 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Approved streets. Public or private streets that have been platted pursuant to
this chapter and of which construction has been completed and accepted or
guaranteed.
Construction plans. Construction plans are engineering details and
specifications for the provision of necessary and/or required facilities and
improvements. Such facilities and improvements may include but not be limited
to public streets, water, sanitary sewer and storm drainage systems.
Manual for the Design and Construction of Water and Waste Water System
Extensions for Greenville Utilities Commission. The Manual for the Design and
Construction of Water and Waste Water Systems Extensions for Greenville
Utilities Commission is incorporated herein as a supplement to the subdivision
regulations. Such supplement contains design considerations, submittal
requirements, material specifications and project guidelines for water and
sanitary sewer system extensions.
Manual of Standard Designs and Details. The Manual of Standard Designs and
Details is incorporated herein as a supplement to the subdivision regulations.
Such supplement contains engineering designs and details relative to plat
layout; storm drainage design; sedimentation control; basins; pipes and
manholes; ending walls and retaining walls; street standards; pavement design;
ground cover; driveways; parking; stormwater detention and other uniform design
standards.
Minor subdivision plats. A “minor subdivision plat” is classified in the
following manner:
      (1)   Involving lots fronting on an existing and/or approved street(s).
In interpretation of this section, the term “lots fronting” shall be construed
to include condominium and townhouse developments which share common area;
      (2)   Not involving the dedication or extension of any public street;
      (3)   Not involving the extension of public sanitary sewer, storm sewer
or water lines; and
      (4)   Not involving the creation of residual parcels or lots.
Planning and Zoning Commission. The body created by City Council in section
9-2-1 of the City Code, pursuant to G.S. 160D-301 and 160D-604, to act as a
planning agency for the City Council on planning and zoning matters within the
city’s planning and zoning jurisdiction.
Private streets. Streets that have been designated by easement and as such
constitute public vehicular areas as provided and regulated by applicable law.
Such streets shall be constructed in accordance with the standards specified in
the Manual of Standard Designs and Details and shall be maintained by the
property owner or pursuant to recorded agreements. No new private streets are
allowed for single-family and two-family attached dwellings located on
individual lots or on a common lot after August 14, 2014.
Public streets. Streets that have been accepted for permanent maintenance by
either the State of North Carolina or the City of Greenville.
Streets. Those areas delineated by dedicated rights-of-way or common property
easements designed and constructed as required by this chapter for the purpose
of carrying vehicular traffic to and from abutting property.
Subdivision. All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots,
building sites, or other divisions for the purpose of sale or building
development (whether immediate or future) and shall include all divisions of
land involving the dedication of a new street or a change in existing streets;
but the following shall not be included within this definition nor be subject
to the regulations authorized by this chapter:
      (1)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the existing standards of the
municipality as shown in this chapter. In interpretation of this section, the
term “previously subdivided and recorded lots” shall mean approved and recorded
pursuant to the subdivision regulations in effect at the time of their
creation;
      (2)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved. In interpretation of this section,
the phrase “where no street right-of-way dedication is involved” shall be
construed as meaning that any such parcels shall be served by an approved
public street;
      (3)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets; and
      (4)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is no
greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where no street right-of-
way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to or exceed
the standards of the municipality as shown in this chapter.
      (5)   The division of a tract into parcels in accordance with the terms
of a probated will or in accordance with intestate succession under G.S.
Chapter 29.
Subdivision Review Board. The membership of the Board is as follows: the
Director of Planning and Development Services, the Director of Engineering and
Inspections and the General Manager of the Greenville Utilities Commission, or
their respective designated representative. The Board has the authority to
approve minor and final subdivision plats as well as soil erosion and
sedimentation control plans.
Thoroughfares. Public streets designed and intended to carry intra-city and
inter-city traffic. Such streets are designated as either major or minor
“thoroughfares” as shown on the Highway Map of the Comprehensive Transportation
Plan as amended.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. No. 2432, § 1, passed 3-12-1992;
Ord. No. 2516, § 1, passed 9-14-1992; Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006;
Ord. No. 14-049, § 10, passed 8-14-2014; Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019;
Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 9-5-6 LOTS CREATED CONTRARY TO SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   Any lot created in a manner contrary to the subdivision regulations in
effect at the time of its creation, whether or not the lot was recorded, shall
not be sold, offered for sale, used, occupied or recorded if previously
unrecorded until the lot has been approved and recorded pursuant to the
requirements provided herein.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-7 LOTS CREATED PRIOR TO ENACTMENT OF SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   Any lot created prior to existence of applicable subdivision regulations,
whether or not the lot was recorded, shall not be sold, offered for sale, used,
occupied or recorded if previously unrecorded without proper certification
based on findings supported by adequate evidence that creation and recording of
the lot (if recorded) was prior to existence of applicable subdivision
regulations and that the area and the dimensions of the lot are as they existed
prior to application of subdivision regulations.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-8 RELATION OF SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS TO ZONING AND OTHER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Regulations set forth herein are part of a system of regulations
governing land development and use. They supplement and are supplemented by
zoning, health, drainage, flood hazard and other controls.
   (B)   Applications for subdivision approval shall be considered in relation
to all such regulations applicable in the particular case, and not only in
relation to the subdivision regulations set forth herein. Where there are
conflicts between these and other lawfully adopted regulations involved in such
considerations. Those which establish the highest requirements or more
stringent limitations shall govern, except where specific exceptions are set
forth in the regulations.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-9 APPLICATION OF SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS; EFFECT.
   (A)   Within the jurisdiction of these regulations, no subdivision shall be
made, platted or recorded for any purpose, nor shall parcels resulting from
such subdivision be sold or offered for sale, nor shall any permit be issued
for construction or use of any lot, unless the subdivision meets all of the
requirements of these and applicable related regulations, as set forth in
section
9-5-8, above.
   (B)   No plat of any subdivision within such jurisdiction shall be filed or
recorded by the Pitt County Register of Deeds until it shall have been approved
pursuant to these requirements and the approval entered in writing on the plat
by the Chairperson of the Planning and Zoning Commission. Recordation for the
purpose of correction or otherwise shall be subject to approval as provided
herein for an original subdivision.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. No. 23-048, § 14, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 9-5-10 RESERVED.
SEC. 9-5-11 EFFECT OF FINAL PLAT APPROVAL ON STATUS OF DEDICATION; ACCEPTANCE.
   (A)   The approval of a plat by the Planning and Zoning Commission or the
Subdivision Review Board shall not be deemed to constitute or effect an
acceptance by the city or the public of the dedication of any public street,
facility or ground shown upon the plat. Acceptance of such dedications shall be
made only by resolution of the City Council, following approval of the final
plat by the Subdivision Review Board.
   (B)   Dedication of any street right-of-way shall be deemed to constitute
and include a general utility easement.
   (C)   Acceptance of physical improvements will be made by the City Engineer
and the General Manager of the Greenville Utilities Commission once the
required improvements have been installed and are found to be in accordance
with approved plans and city and Greenville Utilities Commission standards.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. No. 1968, § 2, passed 3-9-1989;
Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 9-5-12 EFFECT OF APPLICATION OF SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS ON ERECTION OF
BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No principal building, accessory building or structure shall be
erected on a lot which does not abut an approved street.
   (B)   Any building erected in violation of this section shall be deemed an
unlawful structure, and the city shall bring appropriate action or cause the
building to be vacated or removed.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-13 EFFECT OF APPLICATION OF SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS ON NAMING STREETS.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall approve and authorize any
existing or proposed street or road located within the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to reference or propose any new
street or road name on any plat, or in any deed or instrument without first
receiving the approval of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (C)   Street names shall be no longer than 14 characters, including letters
and spaces, and not including the suffix (i.e., road, street, avenue) and block
number. Street names longer than 14 characters may be approved by resolution of
the City Council. Street names longer than 14 characters should generally be
used only to honor individuals, events or locations and the name necessary for
that purpose is longer than 14 characters.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. No. 2106, § 2, passed 12-11-1989;
Ord. No. 23-048, § 16, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 9-5-14 PREREQUISITE TO PLAT APPLICATION.
   Each individual subdivision plat of land within the city’s jurisdiction
shall be approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission as provided in G.S.
160D-803 prior to recordation in the Register of Deeds.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-5-15 APPROVAL OF PUBLIC SERVICES.
   (A)   No public street shall be maintained by the city nor any street
dedication accepted for ownership until the final subdivision plat has been
approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission and recorded in the Register of
Deeds.
   (B)   Public improvements may be extended by the property owner within the
subdivision after the preliminary plat has been approved by the Planning and
Zoning Commission and all conditions of approval are met, including but not
limited to construction plan approval as provided herein. However, no building
permit shall be issued until the final plat has been approved as provided
herein and recorded in the Register of Deeds. Building permits may be issued
within any group housing, condominium and townhouse type development following
preliminary plat and construction plan approval, provided the lot containing
the use is an existing lot of record platted pursuant to the requirements
contained herein. Final plat(s) shall be required for the dedication of
easements prior to the occupancy of any unit or structure. Minor subdivision
for the purpose of creating unit ownership or other means of division shall be
required prior to the transfer of title to any building, unit and/or parcel
within the development.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-16 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION TO ACT IN LIEU OF CITY COUNCIL.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall act in lieu of the City Council as
provided in G.S.160D-803(c) concerning the approval of all preliminary and
final subdivision plats.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-5-17 SUBDIVISION REVIEW BOARD TO ACT IN LIEU OF PLANNING AND ZONING
COMMISSION.
   The Subdivision Review Board shall act in lieu of the Planning and Zoning
Commission as provided in G.S. 160D-803(c) concerning the approval of all minor
and final subdivision plats and soil erosion and sedimentation control plans.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-5-18 TRANSITION REGULATIONS FOR DEVELOPING PROPERTY BROUGHT INTO
EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Final subdivision plats. An approved and recorded final subdivision
plat shall constitute “evidence of compliance” under the terms of G.S. 160D-202
(i) for the purpose of subdividing property and constructing improvements
required to obtain final plat approval under county standards, and shall confer
the right to complete the subdivision under the county regulations governing
the approved final plat; provided, all future construction and/or use of lots
in the subdivision shall be in compliance with the zoning regulations of the
city as contained in
Chapter 4 of Title 9 of the Greenville City Code.
   (B)   Preliminary subdivision plats. A preliminary subdivision plat shall
not constitute “evidence of compliance” under the terms of G.S. 160D-202(i) for
the purpose of obtaining approval for a final plat under sections
9-5-51 through
9-5-59 of the Greenville City Code. However, an opportunity to complete a
subdivision as proposed on a preliminary plat will be available under the
following conditions:
      (1)   A final subdivision plat meeting the rules for submission has been
submitted to the county for final consideration on or before the date the
property becomes subject to the regulations of this Chapter 5; or
      (2)   In the absence of a pending final plat in accordance with
subsection (B)(1) above, the owner/developer must present to the city adequate
evidence of substantial investment in reliance on the preliminary plat, or
those portions of a preliminary plat which have not been approved as phases
under final plats. The Director of Planning and Development Services or
designee shall determine whether substantial investment has been made, taking
into consideration the percentage of the preliminary plat which has been
constructed under approved final plats or is subject to a pending or is subject
to a pending or approved final plat, the extent to which a unified design for
the entire subdivision is evident in the preliminary plat and any pending or
approved final plats for phrases of the preliminary, the installation of
subdivision improvements (including water, sewer or waste disposal, drainage,
lighting, common areas, streets or roads), or the construction or work toward
construction of any improvements or amenities in the area subject to the
preliminary plat. If the Director of Planning and Development Services
determines that there is a substantial investment in the preliminary plat, or
that portion of the preliminary plat which is not covered by pending or
approved final plats, the Director of Planning and Development Services or
designee shall issue a written notice to the owner/developer confirming an
opportunity to complete the subdivision as proposed on the preliminary plat.
The opportunity to complete the subdivision or portions thereof in accordance
with the preliminary plat shall be afforded notwithstanding noncompliance with
the requirements of this
Chapter 5 of Title 9 of the Greenville City Code. An appeal from the decision
of the Director of Planning and Development Services or designee may be taken
to the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (3)   A preliminary plat approved for completion under subsection (B)(2)
shall be valid for the period set forth by the approving jurisdiction or five
years, whichever is less.
      (4)   Any change to a preliminary plat approved for completion under
subsection (B)(2) above shall be in compliance with the requirements of this
Chapter 5, Title 9 of the Greenville City Code. Minor deviations may be
approved by the Director of Planning and Development Services or designee,
where the approval of the deviation is in keeping with the general policy of
this subsection (B).
      (5)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to exempt or exclude
applicable Zoning Ordinance restrictions or requirements currently in effect,
including but not limited to lot width, lot area or street frontage.
      (6)   In the interpretation of the conditions stated above, the Director
of Planning and Development Services or designee shall be guided by the general
policy underlying these transition regulations for developing property brought
into the extraterritorial jurisdiction. The general policy is to allow the
completion under county regulations of those subdivisions which have been
started under county regulations. The greater the investment in construction
under previous regulations, and the greater the percentage of units constructed
in accordance with the original design of the subdivision, the stronger the
policy justification for allowing completion under the original design and
preliminary plat.
(Ord. No. 1969, § 1, passed 3-9-1989; Ord. No. 06-75, § 2, passed 8-10-2006;
Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019; Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-5-19 CITY REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF EXEMPT PLATS FOR RECORDATION.
   Pursuant to G.S. 47-30(11), prior to the recordation of a plat which shows
or includes, in whole or in part, property located within the jurisdiction of
the city for purposes of land development regulation, and which plat contains a
surveyor’s certificate as provided in G.S. 47-30(11)d., “that the survey is of
another category, such as the recombination of existing parcels, a court-
ordered survey, or other exemption or exception to the definition of
subdivision”, then the plat shall be first presented to the City Planning
Department for review. Upon review by the city, the plat will not be approved
for recordation if, by dividing, recombining, consolidating, or otherwise
altering existing lot lines, it results in a violation of, or is otherwise
inconsistent with, any land development regulation of the city. Such a
determination by the city shall be noted by affixing to the plat a statement of
non-approval, in which case the plat may not be presented for recordation. If
the city, upon its review of the plat, determines that its contents are
consistent with the city’s land development regulations, or that no city
approval is otherwise required, then it will affix to the plat a certificate of
approval, or a statement that no approval is required, and the plat may be
presented for recordation.
   The following is the language that will be affixed to the plat:
   CITY OF GREENVILLE CERTIFICATION OF APPROVAL
   “I, _________________________, the City Planner of the City of Greenville,
NC, certify this map or plat is an exemption to the definition of a subdivision
and exceeds the minimum land development regulations of the City of Greenville.
This plat is approved for recordation.
   _______________________      ____________
   City Planner               Date
(Ord. No. 24-004, § 1, passed 1-11-2024)
ARTICLE B. PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISION PLATS
SEC. 9-5-41 GENERAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. 160A-373, no final subdivision plat within the
jurisdiction of the City of Greenville shall be recorded by the Register of
Deeds of Pitt County until it has been approved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission and the Subdivision Review Board as provided herein. To secure final
plat approval, the subdivider shall follow the procedures and requirements
established in this article, the Manual of Standard Designs and Details and the
Manual for the Design and Construction of Water and Waste Water System
Extensions for Greenville Utilities Commission which are incorporated herein by
reference. Copies of the Manual of Standard Designs and Details may be
purchased from the Development Department or City Clerk. Copies of the Manual
for the Design and Construction of Water and Waste Water System Extensions for
Greenville Utilities Commission may be purchased from the Greenville Utilities
Commission.
   (B)   Preliminary plats shall be approved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission. Final plats shall be approved by the Subdivision Review Board;
provided, however, the final plat conforms substantially to the approved
preliminary plat or section thereof. If the final plat differs substantially
from the approved preliminary plat, the subdivider will be required to resubmit
the preliminary plat to the Planning and Zoning Commission for approval.
   (C)   The Planning and Zoning Commission and Subdivision Review Board shall
meet in accordance with adopted rules of procedure and the North Carolina Open
Meetings Law.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-42 PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLATS; REQUIRED CERTIFICATION.
   Preliminary and final plats shall be required for all subdivisions, and
every plat shall be prepared by a registered land surveyor or professional
engineer duly authorized under the laws of this state to prepare such plats.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-43 PRELIMINARY PLATS; APPROVAL GENERALLY.
   Preliminary plats shall be approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
Approval shall be recorded in writing by the Chairperson of the Planning and
Zoning Commission before final plats are submitted. Such approval shall confer
upon the subdivider the right for a five-year period from the date of approval
that the terms and conditions under which the preliminary approval was granted
will not be changed for the plat. The five-year period shall start from the
Planning and Zoning Commission meeting date at which approval was granted. If
the property as indicated on the preliminary plat is not platted as provided
herein in its entirety within the five-year period, the preliminary plat or
portion thereof not platted shall be subject to revision and compliance with
the restrictions and requirements currently in effect. The five-year provision
shall not be construed to exempt or exclude applicable Zoning Ordinance
restrictions and requirements currently in effect.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-44 SAME; SUBMISSION.
   All preliminary plats shall be submitted to the Director of Planning and
Development Services or designee, as agent for the city Planning and Zoning
Commission, at least 30 working days prior to the scheduled meeting date of the
Planning and Zoning Commission. Working days shall not be construed to include
city-observed holidays or weekends. It is the intent of the City of Greenville
and Utilities Commission staff and other agencies to review all properly
submitted plats in a timely manner, which will afford the subdivider a
reasonable period of time within which to respond to all comments and/or
requested revisions. All plats submitted in accordance with the minimum
requirements contained herein shall be available for revision not less than 20
working days prior to the scheduled meeting date. Plats revised pursuant to the
initial review and as required shall be submitted to the Director of Planning
and Development Services or designee in accordance with section 9-5-45(A)(8)(b)
and (c), below, not less than 16 working days prior to the scheduled meeting
date.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. No. 06-75, § 2, passed 8-10-2006;
Ord. No. 17-030, § 1, passed 4-10-2017; Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 9-5-45 SAME; FORMAT; GENERAL INFORMATION; SITE INFORMATION.
   All applications for preliminary plat approval shall be submitted in
accordance with and contain the following information:
   (A)   Format.
      (1)   Scale of one inch equal to 200 feet or larger;
      (2)   Drawn in ink or pencil on Mylar film;
      (3)   Mylar film size shall be a minimum of 18 inches by 24 inches and a
maximum of 30 inches by 42 inches;
      (4)   Boundary lines shall be distinctly and accurately represented, all
bearings and distances shown, with an accuracy of closure of not less than one
in 2,500 and in accordance with the Standards of Practice for Land Surveying in
North Carolina;
      (5)   Elevation and benchmarks shall be referenced to National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD);
      (6)   Prepared by a professional engineer;
      (7)   Multiple sheets shall be collated and stapled. Match lines shall be
clearly indicated;
      (8)   (a)   Fifteen blueline paper copies at the time of original
submission for departmental review;
         (b)   Two blueline paper copies shall be submitted for each review
department requesting revisions. Following the total number is to be specified
by the Director of Planning and Development Services or designee;
         (c)   Fifteen blueline paper copies shall be submitted to the Planning
and Zoning Commission following the initial review;
         (d)   Three Mylar film copies for disposition in accordance with
section
9-5-48, upon request of the Director of Planning and Development Services or
designee.
      (9)   List of all adjoining property owners within 100 feet, their
current mailing addresses. Such list shall be obtained from the Pitt County tax
records and shall display the signature of the person preparing the plat;
      (10)   Shall conform to the applicable provisions of the Manual of
Standard Designs and Details. The following certificates shall be required:
         (a)   Standard title block for preliminary plats; and
         (b)   Standard approvals information block.
      (11)   A fee shall be paid to the city for each application for a
preliminary plat and the fee shall be set out in the Manual of Fees for the
City of Greenville; and
      (12)   Owner’s statement. The owner or agent of the owner shall submit a
signed statement requesting Planning and Zoning Commission consideration of the
preliminary plat as submitted and acknowledging that such approval is subject
to approval of a construction plan as provided herein. The statement shall be
on the preliminary plat approval procedure, format, mapping and application
requirement sheet as provided by the Planning and Development Services
Department.
   (B)   General information.
      (1)   Subdivision name;
      (2)   The name(s) of the city, township, county and state in which the
subdivision is located;
      (3)   Name, address and telephone number of land owner(s);
      (4)   Name, address and telephone number of the subdivider and/or
developer;
      (5)   Name, address and telephone number of the engineer preparing the
plat;
      (6)   North Carolina registration number and seal as listed per
subsection (B)(5) above;
      (7)   Locational vicinity map, at a scale of one inch equal to 1,000 feet
showing the subdivision in relation to major and minor roads or streets,
natural features, existing city limit lines and other obvious references;
      (8)   Date of original survey, plat preparation and/or revision(s);
      (9)   Number of sheets; and
      (10)   Scale denoted both graphically and numerically.
   (C)   Site information.
      (1)   North arrow and delineation as to whether true, grid or magnetic,
including date;
      (2)   Existing, platted and proposed streets, their names and numbers (if
state marked routes) shown and designated as “public” indicating right-of-way
and/or easement widths, pavement widths, centerline curve and corner radius
data, including sight distance triangles and typical cross- sections. All
streets indicated on the Highway Map of the Comprehensive Transportation Plan
shall indicate future right-of-way widths;
      (3)   Proposed and existing lot lines within the subdivision showing
approximate dimensions. Plat references shall be indicated for existing lots;
      (4)   Location of all existing buildings with exterior dimensions
including heights, number of stories, distance to existing and proposed lot
lines, private drives, public rights-of-way and easements;
      (5)   Existing and proposed property lines, public streets, right-of-way
and/or easement widths, pavement widths, easements, utility lines, hydrants,
recreation areas or open spaces on adjoining property;
      (6)   Ownership of all contiguous property indicated and referenced by
deed book/map book and page number;
      (7)   Existing zoning classification(s) boundaries of the tract to be
subdivided and on adjoining property within 100 feet;
      (8)   Political subdivision(s) including city limit lines, township
boundaries and county lines;
      (9)   Watercourses, railroads, bridges, culverts, storm drains, wooded
areas, marshes, swamps, rock outcrops, ponds or lakes, streams or stream beds,
ditches or other natural or improved features which affect the site;
      (10)   Proposed pedestrian, riding, bicycle trails or easements, their
location, width and purpose;
      (11)   Sites proposed to be dedicated or reserved for public or private
purposes including location, intended use, size and expected future ownership
and maintenance of such spaces;
      (12)   Recreation area(s) as required and pursuant to the City Code and
Comprehensive Plan. If such subdivision is for residential purposes, indicate
the location of all public parks or recreation areas within one-half-mile
radius;
      (13)   Statement of proposed ownership and maintenance or other
agreements when private recreation areas are established;
      (14)   Topography (existing and proposed) at a contour interval of one
foot, based on mean sea level datum, with an accuracy of plus or minus 0.5 foot
and referenced to the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD);
      (15)   Existing and proposed watercourses, their names, direction of
flow, centerline elevations, cross-sections, and any other pertinent datum;
      (16)   Floodway zone and floodway fringe zone shown, indicating base
flood elevations for all lots adjoining such zones;
      (17)   Lot numbers and block numbers in consistent and logical sequence;
      (18)   Water supply watershed district boundary;
      (19)   Fire hydrant locations and connections;
      (20)   Water main locations, connections and anticipated sizes;
      (21)   Sanitary sewer main locations, connections and anticipated sizes;
      (22)   Storm sewer main locations, connections, and anticipated sizes;
      (23)   Street and lot drainage correlated to the city drainage system,
including break points and the direction of surface water flow on each lot,
street and ditch;
      (24)   Easements, including but not limited to electric, water, sanitary
sewer, storm sewer, drainage, gas or other service delivery easements including
their location, width and purpose;
      (25)   Environmental Health Department approval attached if public water
and sanitary sewer systems are not available;
      (26)   Distance to and location of public water and sanitary sewer
systems if such facilities are not available;
      (27)   The following in tabular form:
         (a)   Lineal feet in streets;
         (b)   Number of lots created;
         (c)   Acreage in total tract; and
         (d)   Acreage in parks, recreation areas, common areas and the like.
      (28)   The name and location of any property within the proposed
subdivision or within any contiguous property that is listed on the National
Register of Historic Places, or that has been designated by ordinance as a
local historic property and/or district;
      (29)   Environmental impact statement pursuant to G.S. Chapter 113A. The
Planning and Zoning Commission may require the subdivider to submit an
environmental impact statement with the preliminary plat if:
         (a)   The development exceeds two acres in area; and
         (b)   The Board deems it necessary due to the nature of the land to be
subdivided or peculiarities in the proposed layout.
      (30)   Statements on the plat that:
         (a)   Construction plan approval from Greenville Utilities Commission
and City of Greenville shall be obtained prior to construction of any street,
water and/or sanitary sewer and storm drainage system;
         (b)   All required improvements shall conform to the city Manual of
Standard Designs and Details and the Manual for the Design and Construction of
Water and Waste Water System Extensions for Greenville Utilities Commission;
and
         (c)   All lots shall equal or exceed the minimum development standards
of the city Zoning Ordinance.
      (31)   Any other information considered by either the subdivider or the
Planning and Zoning Commission to be pertinent to the review of the preliminary
plat; and
      (32)   Written statement addressing the reasons for being unable to meet
the minimum requirements as listed above under this section.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. No. 2379, §§ 1, 2, passed 10-10-
1991; Ord. No. 2501, § 1, passed 8-13-1992; Ord. No. 97-80, § 1, passed 8-14-
1997; Ord. No. 06-75, § 2, passed 8-10-2006; Ord. No. 14-049, 11, passed 8-14-
2014; Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-
2023)
SEC. 9-5-46 SAME; REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall review and take action on
each preliminary plat duly presented to the Director of Planning and
Development Services or designee. Before taking final action on the plat, the
Planning and Zoning Commission shall hear the report of the Director of
Planning and Development Services or designee and other public officials and
agencies concerning the proposed development. If the preliminary plat is
disapproved, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall specify the reasons for
such action in writing.
   (B)   Before final action is taken by the Planning and Zoning Commission on
a preliminary plat, notice that the preliminary plat will be reviewed at a
meeting shall be published. the notice shall be given once a week for two
successive weeks in a newspaper having general circulation in the area. The
notice shall be published the first time not less than ten days nor more than
25 days before the date of the meeting. In computing such period the day of
publication is not to be included by the day of the meeting is to be included.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. No. 06-75, § 2, passed 8-10-2006;
Ord. No. 16-051, § 1, passed 8-18-2016; Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019;
Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-5-47 SAME; DEPARTMENTAL FINDINGS.
   The City of Greenville Director of Planning and Development Services or
designee, City Engineer, Director of Public Works, Chief of Fire and Rescue,
and Director of Recreation and Parks; Greenville Utilities Commission gas,
electric, water/sewer engineering; Pitt County Drainage District; and Pitt
County Environmental Health Department, if applicable, shall furnish in writing
their approval or disapproval of the preliminary plat.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. No. 06-75, § 2, passed 8-10-2006;
Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 9-5-48 (RESERVED)
 
SEC. 9-5-49 SAME; CONSTRUCTION PLAN REQUIRED; AUTHORITY; CONTENTS.
   (A)   Following the preliminary plat approval, not to exceed five years, a
construction plan for the entire development shall be submitted to the City
Engineer and the general manager of the Greenville Utilities Commission for
review and approval. The construction plan may be submitted in phases.
   (B)   The subdivider shall submit a construction plan to the city and
Greenville Utilities Commission for review and approval prior to the
construction or improvement of any street, water line, sanitary sewer, storm
sewer, drainage facility or other improvement.
   (C)   The City Engineer and the General Manager of the Greenville Utilities
Commission or their respective designee shall have final joint approval
authority of any construction plan. Such approval shall be noted in writing on
the plan prior to construction of any public or private facility or structure.
Grading and storm drainage improvements may be allowed following the approval
of the City Engineer prior to state approval of proposed utility improvements.
   (D)   Submission requirements and review procedure for all construction
plans shall be submitted in accordance with the Manual of Standard Designs and
Details and the Manual for the Design and Construction of Water and Waste Water
System Extensions for Greenville Utilities Commission.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-50 SAME; CONSTRUCTION PLAN TO COINCIDE WITH PRELIMINARY PLAT; MINOR
ALTERATIONS; RESUBMISSION OF PLAT COPIES REFLECTING ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   The location, dimension and extent of all proposed improvements shown
on the construction plan shall coincide with the preliminary plat as approved
by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (B)   Minor alterations that, in the opinion of the Director of Planning and
Development Services or designee, City Engineer and General Manager of
Greenville Utilities Commission, do not substantially deviate from the approved
preliminary plat may be allowed. Such minor alterations may include but not be
limited to the relocation, dimension and extent of proposed improvements due to
engineering necessity.
   (C)   Major alterations that, in the opinion of the Director of Planning and
Development Services or designee, City Engineer and General Manager of
Greenville Utilities Commission, do in fact involve substantial deviation from
the approved preliminary plat shall not be allowed. Major alterations may
include but not be limited to the relocation, deletion, addition, dimension and
extent of proposed improvements which alter: street alignment, interior
arrangement, continuation and/or projection; lot and/or block dimension
inconsistent with applicable requirements; increase the total number of lots;
increase the volume and/or location of off-site drainage; or other condition
found to be injurious to either surrounding properties or the City of
Greenville. Appeal from this section may be taken to the Subdivision Review
Board.
   (D)   The subdivider shall revise the preliminary plat, as approved pursuant
to subsection (B), above, to reflect all such minor alterations. Copies shall
be submitted for disposition in accordance with section
9-5-48, above, prior to obtaining construction plan approval as provided
herein.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. No. 06-75, § 2, passed 8-10-2006;
Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 9-5-51 FINAL PLAT; GENERALLY.
   (A)   The final plat and all required materials shall be submitted to the
Director of Planning and Development Services or designee as agent for the
Planning and Zoning Commission not less than ten working days prior to the
scheduled Subdivision Review Board meeting. Working days shall not be construed
to include city observed holidays or weekends.
   (B)   No final plat shall be submitted until the subdivider has obtained
preliminary plat approval as required under this chapter.
   (C)   No final plat shall be approved until the subdivider has installed in
the proposed subdivision or section thereof to be recorded all improvements
required by this chapter or shall have guaranteed their installation as
provided herein.
   (D)   The final plat shall substantially conform to the preliminary plat as
approved. If the final plat does not substantially conform to the preliminary
plat as approved the Planning and Zoning Commission may consider appropriate
revision to the previously approved preliminary plat as provided by this
chapter. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall reserve the right to deny
revision of any preliminary plat where it is found the revision, deletion or
addition thereto would not be in the best interest of the adjoining or
surrounding property owners or the City of Greenville.
(1971 Code, § 9-5-60) (Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. No. 06-75, §
2, passed 8-10-2006; Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 9-5-52 SAME; FORMAT; GENERAL INFORMATION; SITE INFORMATION.
   All applications for final plat approval shall be submitted in accordance
with and contain the following information:
   (A)   Format.
      (1)   Scale of one inch equal to 100 feet or larger;
      (2)   Drawn in ink on Mylar film;
      (3)   Mylar film shall be 18 inches by 24 inches at 0.003 to 0.004 inch
thickness;
      (4)   Boundary lines shall be fully dimensioned by lengths and bearing
with an error of closure not less than one in 5,000 and in accordance with the
Standards of Practice for Land Surveying in North Carolina related to true,
magnetic median or North Carolina grid coordinate system. All dimensions shall
be measured to the nearest one-hundredth of a foot and all angles to the
nearest minute;
      (5)   Prepared by a surveyor licensed and registered in the State of
North Carolina;
      (6)   Multiple sheets shall be collated and stapled (paper copies only).
Match lines shall be clearly indicated;
      (7)   (a)   Twelve blueline paper copies at the time of original
submission for departmental review;
         (b)   Two blueline paper copies shall be submitted, for each review
department requesting revision, following the initial review. The total number
is to be specified by the Director of Planning and Development Services or
designee; and
         (c)   The original drawing and three Mylar film copies for disposition
in accordance with section
9-5-55, upon request of the Director of Planning and Development Services or
designee.
      (8)   One copy of the declaration of covenants, conditions and
restrictions or otherwise as required pursuant to the North Carolina General
Statutes. Such agreements shall be approved by the city prior to final plat
approval;
      (9)   (a)   If utility, street or other improvements as required have not
been installed and approved by the city and Greenville Utilities Commission at
the time of submission of the final plat, the subdivider shall transmit one
copy of a written estimate (prepared by a professional engineer) of such
necessary improvements to the city for review and approval at the time of the
original submission of the final plat.
         (b)   A surety agreement duly executed shall be filed with the City
Engineer not less than three working days prior to the scheduled Subdivision
Review Board meeting. Working days shall not be construed to include city
observed holidays or weekends.
         (c)   In cases where a payment in lieu of dedication of land is due, a
certified check payable to the City of Greenville in the full amount of the
payment shall be required prior to approval.
      (10)   Shall be submitted in accordance with the Manual of Standard
Designs and Details. The following certificates shall be required:
         (a)   Standard title block;
         (b)   Standard source of title information block;
         (c)   Standard owners statement block;
         (d)   Standard approvals information block;
         (e)   Standard dedication information block; and
         (f)   Standard certification block.
      (11)   A filing fee shall be paid to the city for each application for a
final plat and the fee shall be set out in the Manual of Fees for the city;
      (12)   Certified copy of the construction permit issued by the North
Carolina Health Department for water supply and sewerage system to serve the
land included within the final plat, if not to be served by a public utility
system; and
      (13)   When property outside the existing city limits is subdivided and
sanitary sewer service is requested or required, an annexation petition and
required maps shall be submitted to the Director of Planning and Development
Services or designee. Pursuant to this requirement, no final plat shall be
recorded until the property contained within the plat has been annexed to the
City of Greenville. Delay of the effective date of annexation as established by
ordinance of City Council shall not delay recordation of such plat.
   (B)   General information.
      (1)   Subdivision name;
      (2)   The name(s) of the city, township, county and state in which the
subdivision is located;
      (3)   Name, address and telephone number of land owner(s) or legal agent;
      (4)   Name, address and telephone number of the surveyor preparing the
plat;
      (5)   North Carolina registration number and seal as listed per
subsection (B)(4) above;
      (6)   Locational vicinity map, at a scale of one inch equal to 1,000 feet
showing the subdivision in relation to major and minor roads or streets,
adjacent subdivision sections, political divisions, landmarks or other obvious
references;
      (7)   Date of original survey plat preparation and/or revision(s);
      (8)   Number of sheets; and
      (9)   Scale denoted both graphically and numerically.
   (C)   Site information.
      (1)   North arrow and delineation as to whether true, grid or magnetic,
including date;
      (2)   Street names and designation as to public or private;
      (3)   Right-of-way and/or easement widths, pavement widths, and sight
distance triangles of all streets within the subdivision;
      (4)   Right-of-way and/or easement widths and pavement widths of all
adjacent streets;
      (5)   Location of all points of curvature and tangency;
      (6)   Location of all points of intersection where circular curves are
not used;
      (7)   Property lines with bearings or deflection angles, arc lengths,
chord length (indicated by dashed lines) as appropriate;
      (8)   The delta angle, degree of curve, tangent distance, radius and
method (arc or chord) for each curve;
      (9)   Sufficient surveying data to determine readily and reproduce on the
around every straight or curved boundary line, street line, lot line, right-of-
way line, easement line and setback line;
      (10)   Accurate location and description of all monuments, markers and
control points;
      (11)   Location, description and use of all existing and proposed
easements;
      (12)   Location, description and use of any sites proposed for dedication
or reservation for public purposes;
      (13)   Location, description and use of all pedestrian, riding, bicycle
trails or natural buffers to be dedicated or reserved for public purpose;
      (14)   Location, description and use of areas to be used for purposes
other than residential;
      (15)   Property lines and ownership of all contiguous property indicated
and referenced by deed book/map book and page number;
      (16)   Location of existing buildings or structures, watercourses,
railroads, bridges, culverts, storm drains, corporate limits, township
boundaries, county lines and easements both on the land to be subdivided and
immediately adjoining thereto;
      (17)   When the subdivision consists of land acquired from more than one
source of title, the outlines of the various tracts shall be indicated by
dashed lines and identification of the respective tracts shall be shown on the
plat;
      (18)   Floodway zone and flood fringe zone, indicating base flood levels
and minimum building elevations for all lots adjoining such zones;
      (19)   Water supply watershed district boundary and certificate of
approval for recording in accordance with
Title 9, Chapter 4, Zoning;
      (20)   The area in square feet of each proposed lot and common area
within the subdivision;
      (21)   Block and lot numbers in consistent and logical sequence;
      (22)   The following in tabular form:
         (a)   Number of lots created;
         (b)   Acreage in total tract;
         (c)   Acreage in common area(s); and
         (d)   Acreage in parks, recreation areas and the like.
      (23)   The name and location of any property within the proposed
subdivision or within any contiguous property that is listed on the National
Register of Historic Places, or that has been designated by ordinance as a
local historic property and/or district;
      (24)   Any other information considered by either the subdivider or the
Planning and Zoning Commission to be pertinent to the review of the final plat;
and
      (25)   Written statement addressing the reasons for being unable to meet
the minimum requirements as listed above under this section.
(1971 Code, § 9-5-61) (Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. No. 2379, §§
3, 4, passed 10-10-1991; Ord. No. 2501, § 2, passed 8-13-1992; Ord. No. 97-80,
§ 2, passed 8-14-1997; Ord. No. 06-75, § 2, passed 8-10-2006; Ord. 19-045, § 1,
passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 9-5-53 SAME; REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   The Subdivision Review Board shall review and take action on each final plat
duly presented to the Director of Planning and Development Services or
designee. Before taking action on the plat, the Subdivision Review Board shall
hear the report of the Director of Planning and Development Services or
designee and other public officials and agencies concerning the proposed final
plat.
(1971 Code, § 9-5-62) (Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. No. 06-75, §
2, passed 8-10-2006; Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 9-5-54 SAME; DEPARTMENTAL FINDINGS.
   The City of Greenville Director of Development or designee, City Engineer,
Greenville Utilities Commission gas, electric, water/sewer engineering; and
Pitt County Environmental Health Department, if applicable, shall furnish in
writing their approval or disapproval of the plat.
(1971 Code, § 9-5-63) (Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. No. 06-75, §
2, passed 8-10-2006)
SEC. 9-5-55 SAME; DISPOSITION OF COPIES.
   If the final plat is approved, the subdivider shall transmit the original
drawing, and three Mylar film copies as required to the Director of Planning
and Development Services or designee for signature, recordation and
distribution as follows:
   (A)   Pitt County Register of Deeds   Original drawing
   (B)   Planning and Development Services   One Mylar copy
   (C)   Greenville Utilities Commission   One Mylar copy
   (D)   Person or firm preparing the plat      One Mylar copy
(1971 Code, § 9-5-64) (Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. No. 06-75, §
2, passed 8-10-2006; Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 9-5-56 SAME; RECORDATION.
   The Director of Planning and Development Services or designee shall record
the original drawing of the final map in the Pitt County Register of Deeds
together with all applicable documents not more than five working days
following final approval unless as further provided herein.
(1971 Code, § 9-5-65) (Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. No. 06-75, §
2, passed 8-10-2006; Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019)
SEC. 9-5-57 NO RESPONSIBILITY, LIABILITY FOR IMPROVEMENTS PRIOR TO ACCEPTANCE.
   The City of Greenville shall, in no event, be required to open, operate,
repair or maintain any street or other land or facility offered for dedication
prior to the city’s acceptance, by resolution of City Council, of such
dedication.
(1971 Code, § 9-5-66) (Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-58 RESUBDIVISION PROCEDURE.
   For any replatting or resubdivision of land, the same procedures, rules,
relations and requirements shall apply as prescribed herein for an original
subdivision.
(1971 Code, § 9-5-67) (Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-59 DISAPPROVAL OF PLATS RESULTING FROM VIOLATION OF TREE PROTECTION
PRIOR TO DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   Preliminary and final plats shall be denied in accordance with the
provisions of section
6-5-27 of the City Code.
(1971 Code, § 9-5-68) (Ord. No. 07-33, § 5, passed 3-8-2007)
ARTICLE C. DESIGN STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PLATS
SEC. 9-5-80 RELATION TO COMPREHENSIVE TRANSPORTATION PLAN.
   Arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of all streets
shall conform to the Highway Map of the Comprehensive Transportation Plan of
the city and elements thereof officially adopted.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 9-5-81 STREET DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The following design standards shall apply to all streets in proposed
subdivisions:
   (A)   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of all
streets shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned streets,
to topographical and soil conditions, to public convenience and safety and in
their appropriate relation to the proposed use of the land to be served by such
streets.
   (B)   Where there exists a conflict between city and state street standards,
the more restrictive shall apply.
   (C)   The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provision
for the continuation of the existing streets in adjoining areas.
   (D)   Where a new subdivision adjoins unsubdivided land susceptible to being
subdivided, then the new streets shall be carried to the boundaries of the
tract proposed to be subdivided; and the arrangement shall make provision for
the logical and proper projection of such streets.
   (E)   Where a new subdivision adjoins unsubdivided lands that do not have
direct and adequate access to an approved public street, then the new streets
shall be carried to the boundaries of the tract proposed to be subdivided to
ensure the adjoining lands of direct and adequate access. Private streets shall
not constitute direct and adequate access for purposes of this section.
   (F)   In cases where a subdivider is required to carry a new street to the
boundary of the tract to be subdivided and the boundary line is a ditch, canal
or other drainage facility, the subdivider shall dedicate the appropriate land
to the boundary of the tract to be subdivided and construct or guarantee the
required improvements to the boundary or to a further point as provided by
private agreement.
   (G)   Dead end streets in excess of 150 feet shall be provided with a
turnaround that is compliant with Section D103 of Appendix D of the North
Carolina State Building Code Fire Prevention Code, unless otherwise approved by
the Public Works Director. Turn around shall be maintained by the Developer
until such time as 80% of the lots in the subdivision have obtained a
certificate of occupancy.
   (H)   Reserve strips controlling access to public streets shall be
prohibited except under conditions approved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   (I)   The street arrangement within new subdivisions shall not be such as to
cause hardship to owners of adjoining property in platting their own land and
providing convenient access to it or affect the health, safety and welfare of
property owners and residences in the surrounding area. Streets within or
adjacent to subdivisions intended for residential purposes shall be so designed
that their use by through traffic shall be discouraged except, however, where
such streets are existing or proposed thoroughfares.
   (J)   Street right-of-way and/or easement and paving widths shall be based
upon the volume of traffic generated by the area served by such street and the
future traffic circulation pattern of the surrounding area and city as a whole.
The traffic generation factors used to determine the required street section
are contained in the Manual of Standard Designs and Details in conjunction with
the adopted Highway Map of the Comprehensive Transportation Plan for the city.
   K)   Half-streets shall be prohibited except where essential to the
reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of these regulations and where the Planning and Zoning Commission
finds it will be practicable to require the dedication of the other half when
the adjoining property is subdivided. Wherever a half-street is adjacent to a
tract to be subdivided, the other half of the street shall be platted and
improved within such tract.
   (L)   Names of new streets shall not duplicate existing or platted street
names unless a new street is a continuation of or in alignment with the
existing or platted street. Addresses shall be assigned in accordance with the
address numbering system in effect in the city.
   (M)   The vacation of any street or part of a street dedicated for public
use, if such vacation interferes with the uniformity of the existing street
pattern or any future street plans prepared for the areas, shall not be
permitted.
   (N)   Where a tract is subdivided into larger parcels than ordinary building
lots, such parcels shall be arranged so as to allow the opening of future
streets and logical further resubdivision.
   (O)   All buildings shall be located within proximity of an approved street
in accordance with
Title 9, Chapter 4, Article F and within an acceptable distance to a fire
hydrant, which has been connected to a public water supply system, approved by
the city and the Greenville Utilities Commission. The hydrant shall be
installed within the right-of-way or easement of a street or as otherwise
approved by the Chief of Fire and Rescue and Greenville Utilities Commission.
Hydrant locations and requirements shall be in accordance with the Manual for
the Design and Construction of Water and Waste Water System Extensions for
Greenville Utilities Commission.
   (P)   Each lot created within a subdivision shall have direct access to an
approved street in accordance with the Zoning Ordinance or as provided by
subsection (V) below.
   (Q)   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 150 feet shall not be
allowed.
   (R)   Street intersections shall not include more than four street
approaches.
   (S)   Streets shall be designed to intersect as nearly as possible at right
angles, and no street shall intersect another at less than 60 degrees.
   (T)   Loop/connecting streets which begin and terminate without intersecting
another street providing access to the general street system shall not exceed
2,000 feet as measured along the centerline of the street.
   (U)   Cul-de-sac/terminal streets shall only be utilized either when the
extension of the proposed street is infeasible due to one or more of the
following conditions listed under subsection (U)(1) below, or when the street
meets all the conditions listed under subsection (U)(2) below.
      (1)   Such streets shall only be utilized when the extension of the
proposed street to adjoining property or to its intersection with an existing
or proposed street is infeasible due to one or more of the following
conditions:
         (a)   Intervening environmental and/or geographic features including
but not limited to significant drainage systems, ponds/lakes, severe topography
and regulatory wetlands;
         (b)   Intervening existing and/or vested adjacent development or
development plans including buildings, parking lots and drives, stormwater
structures, approved preliminary platted lots or recorded final platted lots,
and approved site plans or other vested condition that prohibits future
extension;
         (c)   The shape and/or dimension of the tract proposed for
subdivision, where a significant portion of the subdivision area would
otherwise be unusable absent terminal extension; or
         (d)   Intervening or approved public and/or private streets where such
intersection is either prohibited by regulation or found to create a hazardous
condition in the opinion of the City Engineer. Cul-de-sac/terminal streets
allowed under this section may not create a public safety hazard.
      (2)   (a)   Limited and reasonable use of cul-de-sac/terminal street(s)
not meeting the conditions of subsection (U)(1) above may be approved where the
specific cul-de-sac/terminal street design, length, location and use both
individually, and/or in combination with other cul-de-sac/terminal streets in
any common subdivision or development, meets all of the following conditions:
            1.   Does not negatively impact vehicular and pedestrian traffic
circulation inconsistent with the street design standards contained herein, the
Manual of Standard Designs and Details incorporated herein by reference, and/or
the goals and objectives of the Comprehensive Plan;
            2.   Does not unduly increase the public cost of or inhibit the
provision of public services, including but not limited to garbage and waste
collection and public transit;
            3.   Does not unduly impact the public cost of or inhibit the
provision of public safety and life services, including but not limited to fire
suppression, emergency rescue and police protection;
            4.   Does not unduly restrict or inhibit adequate access to
adjoining lots and/or tracts within the subject subdivision and/or on adjoining
properties; and
            5.   Does not otherwise create a public safety hazard.
         (b)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall determine compliance
under this section following review and recommendation of the Director of
Planning and Development Services or his or her authorized representative. The
Director of Planning and Development Services may seek and rely on the advice
of the public service and public safety providers in the formulation of any
recommendation concerning the design, length, location and use of such cul-de-
sac/terminal street(s).
      (3)   A cul-de-sac/terminal street shall not exceed 1,000 feet in length
as measured along the centerline of such street from the right-of-way as
projected from the intersecting street to the furthermost point. When a cul-de-
sac/terminal street intersects only another cul-de-sac/terminal street, the
regulatory length of all such streets shall be measured individually from the
intersection street that is not a cul-de-sac/terminal street to the furthermost
point of all such streets.
   (V)   No new private streets are allowed for single-family and two-family
attached dwellings located on individual lots or on a common lot after August
14, 2014.
   (W)   Curve radius, property line radius, tangent distances between reverse
curves, right-of-way widths, easement widths, pavement widths, pavement design
and storm drainage system design provisions are contained in the Manual of
Standard Designs and Details and the adopted Highway Map of the Comprehensive
Transportation Plan for the city.
   (X)   Planned Unoffensive Industry (PIU) and Planned Industry (PI) Districts
street standards and exemptions are as follows.
      (1)   PIU and PI Districts shall be exempt from the maximum “loop
connecting” and “cul-de-sac terminal” street standards listed above under
subsections (T) and (U) of this section.
      (2)   PIU or PI Districts shall comply with all other provisions of this
section.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. No. 2098, § 1, passed 11-16-1989;
Ord. No. 2603, § 1, passed 3-18-1993; Ord. No. 94-85, § 1, passed 6-9-1994;
Ord. No. 06-13, § 1, passed 2-9-2006; Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-2006;
Ord. No. 14-049, § 12, passed 8-14-2014; Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019;
Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 9-5-82 UTILITY EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Easements for utilities shall be provided where necessary along front,
rear or side lot lines, but shall not be required to center on such lines.
Those easements shall be sufficiently wide to provide for installation of the
utilities and access for maintenance and operation.
   (B)   The minimum width of the easements shall be as follows:
      (1)   Water lines: Ten feet.
      (2)   Gas lines: Ten feet.
      (3)   Electrical lines: Ten feet.
      (4)   Storm sewer: In accordance with the Manual of Standard Designs and
Details.
      (5)   Sanitary sewer shall be in accordance with the following table:
 
                Depth of Cover  Minimum Easement Width (feet)
Force main:     All             10
Gravity sewers: 0–10          20
               10–15         30
               Greater than 15 40
 
      (6)   Multipurpose: See section
9-5-85, below.
      (7)   Hydrant: Five feet as measured on the horizontal in all directions
from the center of the hydrant.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 9-5-83 LOT LINES AND UTILITY EASEMENTS.
   Lot lines shall be so arranged with respect to utility easements as to
permit efficient installation of utilities without unnecessary irregularities
in alignment.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-84 PROJECTION OF EASEMENTS TO ADJACENT UNDEVELOPED PROPERTY.
   Where a new subdivision is adjacent to undeveloped property that does not
have direct access to public utility lines or facilities, adequate easements
may be reserved on each side of all rear lot lines and along certain side lot
lines where necessary for the future extension of utilities to the undeveloped
property.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-85 MULTIPURPOSE EASEMENTS.
   Easements designated as general utility easements which contain multiple
utility lines, structures or facilities shall be permitted only upon specific
authorization of the City Engineer and the general manager of the Greenville
Utilities Commission. The minimum acceptable width of such general utility
easements shall be subject to approval on an individual case basis.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-86 MINOR DRAINAGE EASEMENTS.
   Minor drainage easements providing for drainage of surface waters from four
or less lots and not involving regulated flood areas may be permitted to cross
lots at points where such arrangements are found by the City Engineer to be
necessary as a result of topography or soil conditions, and where suitable
building sites are reserved. Such minor drainage easements may be required and
designated to be maintained by the property owner.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-87 MAJOR UTILITIES, SUBSTATION SITES AND THE LIKE.
   Where major utility substations, pumping stations, pressure regulating
stations and the like are required, adequate provision to provide screening
shall be required.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-88 PRESERVATION OF SIGNIFICANT WATER AREAS; INTENT.
   It is the intent of these regulations both to safeguard existing and
potential development in appropriate locations and to preserve and promote a
desirable ecological balance. Therefore, insofar as it is reasonably
practicable, subdivisions shall be located, designed and improved to preserve
important natural water areas, related vegetation and wildlife habitats; to
avoid creation of upstream impoundments or downstream runoff which would be
harmful to such complexes or to existing or potential development in
appropriate locations; and to maintain desirable groundwater levels.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-89 SAME; MAINTENANCE OF NATURAL WATERWAYS AND WATER AREAS;
RELATIONSHIP TO GREENWAY PLAN.
   (A)   Where a proposed subdivision is traversed by or includes in whole or
in part a natural watercourse, marsh, pond or lake of substantial significance
in the ecology of the general area, the water body shall, to the maximum extent
reasonably feasible, be maintained in its natural state, together with
bordering lands and other suitable protective strip or buffer as required by
the Planning and Zoning Commission. The minimum width of any protective strip
or other buffer required pursuant to this section shall not be less than 15
feet from the top of the bank as determined by the City Engineer.
   (B)   If any portion of the area proposed for subdivision lies within an
area designated in the officially adopted Greenway Master Plan as a greenway
corridor, the area so designated shall be dedicated and/or reserved to the
public at the option of the city.
   (C)   The city and Greenville Utilities Commission shall have right of
access onto all designated and/or dedicated areas within all easements as
required for the construction and/or maintenance of public facilities.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. No. 2490, § 1, passed 7-9-1992)
SEC. 9-5-90 SAME; CHANGES IN LOCATION OR EXTENT OF SIGNIFICANT NATURAL
WATERWAYS AND WATER AREAS.
   The City Engineer may permit changes in the location or extent of
significant natural waterways and water areas only after making findings that
such changes will not adversely affect desirable ecological conditions,
drainage or water retention, or result in undesirable location or amount of
upstream impoundment or downstream discharge.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-91 DRAINAGE.
   Adequate storm drainage shall be provided by means of storm drainage pipe
and appurtenances thereto or by open or unenclosed drainage channels, all of
which shall be installed in accordance with the Manual of Standard Designs and
Details. The City Engineer shall determine what type of storm drainage shall be
required and what improvements shall be installed. In the consideration of
storm drain pipe size to be installed, the City Engineer shall take into
consideration the existing drainage conditions, the effect upon those
conditions by the proposed development and the future needs within the
immediate area of the proposed development.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-92 PROTECTION FROM FLOODING AND OTHER ADVERSE WATER CONDITIONS.
   (A)   No subdivision shall be so located or improved to create impoundments
of surface water on developable upstream land outside the subdivision, to
increase surface drainageways, to cause erosion onto neighboring property or
into water areas, or to raise or lower groundwater levels in a manner which
creates adverse effects within the subdivision or in surrounding areas. Where
locations or improvements appear likely to have such effects, plats shall not
be approved until suitable remedial measures have been provided.
   (B)   As appropriate to the circumstances, such measures may include
requiring the subdivider to make provision for the necessary enlargements or
improvements in off-site drainageways, establishing water retention and
recharge areas, and mechanical and vegetative means to control runoff and
erosion from the subdivision.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-93 SEDIMENTATION AND EROSION CONTROL.
   All subdivisions shall conform to the sedimentation and erosion control
regulations as set forth by the City Code.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-94 FLOODPRONE OR FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   All subdivisions shall conform to the flood damage prevention regulations as
set forth by the City Code. All subdivisions located in the area of special
flood hazard as defined in section 9-6-2 shall be required to elevate all
public streets located within the subdivision such that the lowest point on the
street is no less than one foot below the 100-year flood elevation or no lower
than the highest accessible point on the adjacent public street providing
access to the site which shall be the point of entry between the development
and the adjacent public street. All subdivisions located in the area of special
flood hazard as defined in section
9-6-2 shall be required to elevate all private streets located within the
subdivision upon property having a zoning classification allowing a residential
use as a permitted use such that the lowest point on the street is no less than
one foot below the 100-year flood elevation or no lower than the highest
accessible point on the adjacent public street providing access to the site
which shall be the point of entry between the development and the public
street. Notwithstanding the foregoing, additional points of access onto a
public street may be allowed to be constructed at a lesser elevation provided
that the access is no lower than the elevation of the point of access to the
public street and provided that all elevations are no lower than the minimum
necessary to provide safe access to the public street.
(Ord. No. 00-19, § 14, passed 2-10-2000)
SEC. 9-5-95 BLOCK STANDARDS; GENERAL DESIGN.
   Block lengths, widths and areas within bounding roads shall be such that:
   (A)   Adequate building sites, suitable to the contemplated or probable use
are provided.
   (B)   Zoning requirements regarding minimum lot dimensions and area are
assured.
   (C)   Lengths between intersecting streets do not exceed 1,400 feet or be
less than 300 feet.
   (D)   Sufficient widths are provided to allow two tiers of lots where
single-tier lots are required to separate development from traffic arteries,
water areas, common areas or public property. Where double frontage lots are
allowed, a nonaccess easement shall be provided as specified herein.
   (E)   Planned Unoffensive Industry (PIU) and Planned Industry (PI) Districts
shall be exempt from the maximum block length listed under subsection (C)
above.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. No. 2098, § 2, passed 11-16-1989)
SEC. 9-5-96 PEDESTRIAN CROSSWALKS WITHIN BLOCKS.
   Where orientation or length of blocks or other considerations justify such
action, the Planning and Zoning Commission may require pedestrian circulation
and provide access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation
and other facilities. Where such crosswalks are provided, they shall be
located, dimensioned, fenced, screened or otherwise improved by the subdivider
in such a manner as to provide security, tranquility and privacy for occupants
of adjoining property, and safe use. Such pedestrian ways, if suitably
improved, may be used by emergency vehicles but shall not be used by other
motor vehicles.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-97 LOTS; GENERAL DESIGN.
   (A)   Lot dimensions and area shall not be less than the applicable
requirements of the Zoning Ordinance.
   (B)   All lots shall abut by their full frontage on an approved public
street or private street where applicable.
   (C)   Where public water and/or sewer service is not available, all lots
shall be subject to the applicable requirements of the Pitt County
Environmental Health Department and the City of Greenville.
    (D)   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles to straight
streets or radial to curved street lines.
   (E)   Corner lots for residential purposes shall have extra width to permit
appropriate building setback from and orientation to both streets.
   (F)   Lots abutting a pedestrian crosswalk or alley within a block shall not
be considered corner lots.
   (G)   All lots shall contain an adequate building site.
   (H)   Lots subject to flooding and lots deemed to be uninhabitable shall not
be platted for residential occupancy nor for such other uses as may increase
danger to health, life or property or aggravate the flood hazard, but the land
within the plat shall be set aside for such uses as shall not be endangered by
periodic or occasional inundation or shall not produce unsatisfactory living
conditions.
   (I)   All remnants of lots or residual parcels of a larger tract must be
added to adjacent lots, rather than allowed to remain as unusable parcels.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-98 DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOTS.
   Double frontage lots shall be avoided except where essential to provide
residential separation from traffic arteries or other incompatible uses. Where
double frontage lots are allowed, a ten-foot nonaccess easement shall be
provided along the street line outside any existing or future rights-of-way.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-99 DRIVEWAYS; CONDITION OF LOT ACCESS.
   Driveways providing ingress and/or egress to all lots within new
subdivisions platted pursuant to these regulations shall conform to the Manual
of Standard Designs and Details and the driveway regulations as set forth by
the City Code. However, where in the interest of public health, safety and
welfare, the Planning and Zoning Commission finds that greater restrictions on
the location and/or total number of driveways is necessary to ensure the
interests, such greater restrictions shall be noted on the plat as a condition
of approval. Where the condition applies to all or several lots shown upon the
plat, the City Engineer shall enforce the noted condition in addition to other
applicable regulations in effect at the time of driveway permit application.
SEC. 9-5-100 PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES; RELATION TO QUASI-PUBLIC AND PRIVATE
OPEN SPACE NETWORK; INTENT.
   (A)   To provide for efficiency, economy and amenity, it is the intent of
these regulations to encourage and promote the development and maintenance of
public open space systems.
   (B)   It is intended that to the maximum extent reasonably feasible there
shall be a continuous network of public lands adapted to multiple purposes,
including preservation and maintenance of natural waterways and water areas,
protection of watersheds, neighborhood or community service areas and other
public uses requiring extensive open space.
   (C)   It is further intended that these regulations shall encourage and
promote consolidation, combination and coordination of quasi-public and private
common open space with the public land network where appropriate. The purposes
of such action shall include the following, applied generally or under
particular sets of circumstances:
      (1)   To increase the extent, effectiveness and amenity of the total open
space network;
      (2)   To provide protection for areas of substantial ecological
importance; and
      (3)   To minimize conflicts among automotive traffic, pedestrians and
cyclists, and to provide safe, convenient movement systems for pedestrians and
cyclists through open spaces not generally open to automotive traffic, in a
pattern connecting their principal origins with destinations such as schools,
parks and recreational facilities; and otherwise to ensure the advantages
arising from an open space network with multiple potentials for public use and
reuse, as contrasted with scattered open spaces serving only limited functions.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-101 RESERVATIONS FOR RECREATION AREAS; GENERALLY.
   All subdivisions shall indicate recreation area at the time of submission of
the preliminary plat. If the subdivision is developed in sections, the
recreation area shall be contained within the first section unless as otherwise
approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission upon recommendation of the
Director of Recreation and Parks. At the time of submission of the final plat,
the owner shall give the city a valid option on the land provided for as
recreation area. The total development area shall be used as the basis for
computation of the area reserved for recreation purposes.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-102 SAME; MINIMUM AREA.
   The minimum amount of land which shall be reserved for recreation area in
the subdivision plan shall be one acre for each subdivision and in addition,
for all subdivisions over 25 acres in area, reservation of recreation space
shall include one acre plus 4% of the gross total area over 25 acres or 400
square feet for each lot over 110, whichever is greater.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-103 SAME; WAIVER PROVISIONS.
   Any subdivision owner may submit a map to the Planning and Zoning Commission
of the area which is intended to be developed as a subdivision and request
advice as to whether or not a recreation area shall be required in the proposed
subdivision. Within 30 days, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall make a
decision as to whether a recreation area should be included in the subdivision
plan. It is the intent of this section to permit an early determination
regarding recreation areas, especially of small subdivisions which, because of
their proximity to other recreation areas or other good reasons, may not need
recreation areas for the orderly development of the proposed subdivision. The
owner or developer shall consider final any decision made pursuant to this
section only if the final subdivision plat is approved under the overall
subdivision regulations within one year from the date of any determination
pursuant to this section.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-104 SAME; AUTHORITY OF PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION TO SEEK ADVICE.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission may from time to time request opinions
from the City Recreation Commission and other competent authorities.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-105 SAME; OWNER TO GIVE OPTION TO CITY; PROVISIONS OF OPTION.
   (A)   At the time of submission of the final plat, the owner shall give to
the city a valid option on the land provided for as recreation area. This
option shall be a separate agreement to be drawn by the owner and approved by
the City Attorney as to form and effect.
   (B)   This option may contain such terms as shall be mutually agreed to by
the owner and the city but shall contain the following:
      (1)   Provision for payment of $100 to the owner upon execution of the
option, which shall be applied to the purchase price if the option is
exercised;
      (2)   Provision that the owner shall sell the land at an agreed raw land
value. The raw land value is the fair market value of the recreation area
before improvements or development. Should the city and the owner fail to agree
on the raw land value, they shall choose one M.A.I. appraiser to appraise the
recreation area. The sum per acre determined by the M.A.I. appraiser shall
constitute the price per acre for the land. Cost of this process shall be
equally divided between the city and the owner;
      (3)   Provision that the option shall have a term of at least four years
unless terminated by exercise of the option to purchase by the city, or unless
sooner terminated by the city by an instrument in writing;
      (4)   Provision that in addition to the stipulated purchase price if the
option is exercised, the owner shall be entitled to interest on the purchase
price from the date of execution of the option at 6% per year; and
      (5)   Provision that the option shall become effective upon recordation
of the final subdivision plat containing such recreation area in the Pitt
County Register of Deeds.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-106 SAME; RELATION TO BIKEWAY PLAN.
   Arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of the bikeway
system for Greenville shall conform to the bikeway plan of the city and
elements thereof officially adopted.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
ARTICLE D. [RESERVED]
ARTICLE E. REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SEC. 9-5-115 CONFORMANCE WITH THE MANUAL OF STANDARD DESIGNS AND DETAILS AND
THE MANUAL FOR THE DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF WATER AND WASTE WATER SYSTEM
EXTENSIONS FOR GREENVILLE UTILITIES COMMISSION.
   In addition to the requirements set forth herein, required improvements
shall conform to any applicable specifications set forth in the Manual of
Standard Designs and Details published by the city and the Manual for the
Design and Construction of Water and Waste Water System Extensions for
Greenville Utilities Commission. In case of extraordinary subsurface
conditions, terrain, the general pattern in the area, existing or probable
development in the vicinity or other circumstances, the City Engineer and the
general manager of Greenville Utilities, upon making supporting written
findings, may establish greater or lesser requirements in particular cases.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-116 PERMANENT MONUMENTS AND MARKERS.
   Permanent monuments and markers shall be placed in accordance with the
Standards of Practice for Land Surveying in North Carolina and the North
Carolina General Statutes which apply to the subdivision of land. The
registered land surveyor preparing the final plat shall be responsible for the
placement of all required monuments and markers. Such monuments and markers
shall be in place at the time the city accepts the improvements within the
subdivision.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-117 STREETS AND ALLEYS; GRADING AND SURFACING.
   All streets and alleys within the jurisdiction of the City of Greenville
shall be graded and surfaced in accordance with the design standards set out in
Article C of this chapter and as specified in the Manual of Standard Designs
and Details.  
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-118 SAME; CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   Minimum requirements shall apply as to use of curbs and gutters or open
ditches and shall be constructed in accordance with the Manual of Standard
Designs and Details.  
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-119 STREET SIGNS.
   Street name signs shall be installed in locations and according to
specifications set forth in the Manual of Standard Designs and Details.  
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-120 STREET LIGHTS (PUBLIC).
   Street lights shall be provided at such locations as approved by the city
and shall be installed and maintained by the Greenville Utilities Commission in
accordance with current policy. Street lights shall be installed in conformance
with the Lighting Standards for the City of Greenville.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 9-5-121 STREET TREES.
   In all residential subdivisions, street trees shall be preserved where
possible; where they do not exist, appropriate trees may be provided, planted
and serviced in accordance with the Manual of Standard Designs and Details.
Such trees shall be species which are resistant to damage and disease and which
do not cause interference with utilities, street lighting or visibility at
street intersections or intersections of driveways or walkways with streets,
and which do not cause heaving of pavements when planted in specified
locations.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-122 GROUND COVER.
   All land within the right-of-way which is not used for structures, vehicular
or pedestrian traffic, or for other approved landscaping shall be provided with
grass or other ground cover of a nature approved by the Manual of Standard
Designs and Details. Such ground cover may include appropriate plant materials
preserved in place.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-123 SIDEWALKS; WHERE TO BE INSTALLED.
   Sidewalks shall be provided by the subdivider in accordance with the
following:
   (A)   Sidewalks shall be provided in conjunction with public street
extensions pursuant to section
9-5-81 of this chapter.
   (B)   The location of proposed sidewalks required pursuant to this section
shall be in accordance with the Manual of Standard Designs and Details.
   (C)   Sidewalks shall be provided along both sides of all minor and major
thoroughfare streets and boulevards as shown on the adopted Highway Map of the
Comprehensive Transportation Plan as amended.
   (D)   Sidewalks shall be provided along one side of all collector, standard
residential and planned industrial streets.
   (E)   The arrangement of sidewalks in new subdivisions shall make provision
for the continuation of existing sidewalks in adjoining areas.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. No. 97-131, § 1, passed 12-11-1997;
Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 9-5-124 DRAINAGE; CONFORMANCE WITH MANUAL OF STANDARD DESIGNS AND DETAILS.
   All required storm drainage and surface water drainage systems shall be
installed in accordance with the Manual of Standard Designs and Details.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-125 ALL SUBDIVISIONS TO BE ADEQUATELY DRAINED.
   All subdivided land shall be served by a storm and surface water drainage
system located, designed and installed in such a manner as to preserve the
public and private land from inundation during a storm of ten-year frequency.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-126 PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
   Each lot intended for a use requiring domestic water supply shall be served
by a public system approved by the State of North Carolina.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-127 PUBLIC SANITARY SEWERAGE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Each lot intended for a use requiring sanitary sewerage shall be
served by the Greenville Utilities Commission and approved by the State of
North Carolina, except where unfeasibility is documented and such documentation
is accepted by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (B)   Where the Planning and Zoning Commission has accepted the
unfeasibility of service by a public system, it shall require approval of the
lot by the Pitt County Department of Environmental Health. Such approval shall
be based upon the studies and conclusions as specified by applicable law.
   (C)   Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to prohibit installation of
private systems where water is not used for human consumption.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-128 GENERAL EROSION PROTECTION; CONSERVATION OF TOPSOIL; PRESERVATION
OF DESIRABLE VEGETATION.
   In general, in preparation of the subdivision and installation of
improvements, appropriate measures shall be taken to prevent erosion and
damaging situations on the property and on adjoining land or water areas in
accordance with the soil erosion and sedimentation control regulations as set
forth by the City Code. In any grading or filing operations, described topsoil
shall be conserved and redistributed as such, particularly to cover exposed
subsoils. Trees, shrubs and ground cover existing at the beginning of
development operations shall be preserved to the maximum extend reasonably
feasible where they are of species and in locations likely to add amenity to
the completed development. The Planning and Zoning Commission may require
preservation of specified trees or other vegetation in connection with a
particular development except upon findings that such preservation is
infeasible in view of the requirements for the installation of public utilities
and facilities.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-129 FIRE PROTECTION FACILITIES.
   All lots served by public water supply systems shall also be afforded fire
protection by means of hydrants installed in accordance with the requirements
and specifications of the Manual of Standard Designs and Details and the Manual
for the Design and Construction of Water and Waste Water System Extensions for
Greenville Utilities Commission.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-130 WIRE INSTALLATION TO BE UNDERGROUND; EXCEPTIONS.
   Electrical distribution (defined for the purposes of these regulations as
facilities for delivering electrical energy from a substation to a customer’s
meter), telephone and any other wire installation shall be underground unless
infeasibility of such installation has been documented and the documentation
accepted as satisfactory by the Planning and Zoning Commission. In making its
decision on the adequacy of the documentation, the Commission shall consider
the terrain, load characteristics, reliability, accessibility, system
flexibility, equipment availability, cost, safety, trimming and customer
desires.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
ARTICLE F. COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS; MAINTENANCE GUARANTEES
SEC. 9-5-141 SATISFACTORY COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS; OFFERS TO DEDICATE;
MAINTENANCE GUARANTEES; PRIOR TO APPROVAL OF FINAL PLATS.
   Except as hereinafter provided concerning performance guarantees, before
final plats are approved:
   (A)   All required improvements shall be completed by the owner or his or
her agent, and inspected and approved by appropriate public officials or
agencies; and
   (B)   All required offers to dedicate, or to reserve for future dedication,
shall be made, clear of all liens and encumbrances on the property and public
improvements thus dedicated.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-142 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE.
   In lieu of completion of all or part of required improvements prior to
approval of final plats, the property owner may post a performance guarantee to
secure to the city the satisfactory construction and installation of the
uncompleted portion of the required improvements in accordance with G.S. 160D-
804(1). The performance guarantee shall be in an amount equal to 125% of the
estimated cost of the installation of the required improvements, as determined
by the city. The performance guarantee shall remain in full force and effect
until such time as the construction of improvements are completed and accepted
by the city. Failure to maintain the required performance guarantee shall
result in the revocation of the approval of the preliminary plat and any
permits issued as a result of the preliminary plat approval. The performance
guarantee shall be automatically renewed unless all parties agree not to renew
it at least sixty (60) days prior to its scheduled expiration date. A temporary
construction easement permitting the City of Greenville or its designee(s) to
access the property for the purpose of constructing/installing the guaranteed
improvements is required to be provided with the performance guarantee. The
temporary construction easement shall be valid and shall bind to all successive
owners until the guaranteed improvements have been constructed/installed and
approved or accepted by the City of Greenville. Said temporary construction
easements shall be recorded at the office of the Pitt County Register of Deeds,
with recording fees to be paid by the applicant/landowner.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-5-143 TYPE OF GUARANTEE.
   The performance guarantee may be in the form of asurety bond issued by a
company authorized to do business in the state of North Carolina, a certified
check, a first deed of trust, an irrevocable letter of credit, or an escrow
deposit. All performance guarantees shall not be accepted unless the City
Attorney has made a review thereof and provided a written opinion that the
interests of the city are fully protected.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 9-5-144 PLANS AND CONSTRUCTION PROGRAMS.
   Plans, specifications, quantities, unit costs and estimated total costs
shall be provided by the applicant to the City Engineer together with a
schedule indicating time of initiation and completion of the work, as a whole
or in stages. Number of copies shall be as required for records and processing
in the particular case.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-145 AMOUNT AND TERMS OF PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE; TIME LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Following receipt of the required estimate, the City Engineer shall
prepare recommendations as to the terms of the performance guarantee, including
time of initiation and completion of the work, as a whole or in stages, and
provisions for release of portions of the guarantee upon completion of portions
or stages of the work. The life of a performance guarantee shall not be less
than six months or greater than two years, unless otherwise provided. The time
between initiation and completion of development shall not exceed four years,
except as provided under subsection (C).
   (B)   Based on such estimate, with such changes as deemed necessary, the
City Engineer shall set the amount and terms of the performance guarantee,
subject to necessary legal review of form as provided in section
9-5-143.
   (C)   When in the opinion of the City Engineer the required improvements or
portions thereof cannot be completed within the specified time frame due to a
physical condition and/or lack of an approved final plat on an adjoining
property, the performance guarantee or portion thereof for such improvements
may be extended beyond the maximum time stated in subsection (A) above.
Following approval of a final plat on an adjoining property, the required
improvements or portion thereof shall be installed within the life of the
current performance guarantee or 12 months, whichever is greater.
   (D)   The City Engineer may accept a substitute performance guarantee from
any party to cover the cost of all or a portion of the remaining improvements
shown on an approved final plat. When a substitute performance guarantee is
offered, the City Engineer shall give ten days’ notice by certified mail to the
party posting the original surety that the City Engineer intends to issue a
“notice to proceed” for construction of the guaranteed improvements to the
party offering the substitute surety. The “notice to proceed” will be issued to
the party offering and posting the substitute surety unless the party posting
the original surety makes a written request that the “notice to proceed” be
issued to him or her, and has in place or offers a surety meeting the
requirements of a substitute surety.
   (E)   When a substitute performance guarantee is accepted, the following
rules shall apply.
      (1)   The work covered by a substitute performance guarantee shall be
completed within 12 months.
      (2)   The original performance guarantee shall be released, reduced or
returned to the party posting the original performance guarantee.
      (3)   The work performed under a “notice to proceed” shall conform to the
original plans in accordance with the approved final plat.
      (4)   No extensions or substitutions of a substitute performance
guarantee will be allowed.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. No. 1968, § 1, passed 3-9-1989)
SEC. 9-5-146 INSPECTIONS; INSPECTION REPORTS.
   (A)   The City Engineer shall make inspections to determine whether work has
started as scheduled; shall make inspections as are necessary during the course
of work; and shall make final inspections.
   (B)   Within five days of such inspections, copies of reports of the results
thereof shall be provided to the file for public inspection.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-147 ACTION ON INSPECTION REPORTS; REPORTS INDICATING SATISFACTION OF
REQUIREMENTS.
   Where such reports indicate satisfactory completion of work within time
limits set and in accord with other terms of the performance guarantee, for
agreed upon stages or for the entire work, the City Engineer shall so indicate
to the applicant, any surety company involved and the City Manager. The City
Manager, upon such notification and any further assurance he or she may require
from the City Attorney, shall then release all or portions of the performance
guarantee in accordance with the terms thereof.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-148 SAME; REPORTS INDICATING FAILURE TO SATISFY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Where the reports indicate failure to initiate work on schedule or to
complete work on schedule in full compliance with the terms of the performance
guarantee, the City Engineer shall so indicate to the applicant, any surety
company involved and the City Manager. The notice shall indicate that unless
action required under the terms of the performance guarantee is completed
within 30 days of the date of the notification, the performance guarantee or
portions thereof set forth in its terms shall be called.
   (B)   Unless the action is completed, as evidenced by inspections and
reports of the City Engineer, the City Manager shall call the performance
guarantee or affected portions thereof.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-149 SAME; REPORTS INDICATING UNSATISFACTORY PROGRESS.
   Where the reports indicate that work initiated appears likely not to be
completed on schedule, and where the performance guarantee provides for
extension of time for cause, the City Engineer shall notify the applicant and
any surety company involved concerning potential need for an application for
such extension. Where the notice has been given, no application for extension
shall be considered after expiration of the original schedule date.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-150 ACTIONS FOLLOWING FAILURE TO COMPLETE WORK UNDER PERFORMANCE
GUARANTEE.
   When work required under the terms of any performance guarantee is not
completed by the applicant as specified therein, the City Manager, following
the call of the guarantee, shall take such action as is appropriate in the
circumstances of the case to procure the completion of the required
improvements at the earliest reasonable time, according to the plans and
specifications and staging of construction approved in connection therewith.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
 SEC. 9-5-151 ACCEPTANCE OF GUARANTEE OF OTHER GOVERNMENTAL AGENCY OR UTILITY.
   Where all or part of required improvements are to be completed by another
government agency or utility the City Manager may accept the written guarantee
of that agency to complete the improvements within a time to be mutually agreed
upon.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-152 BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY PRIOR TO COMPLETION
OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Building permits may be issued for construction of buildings in
subdivisions which have been given final approval and properly recorded prior
to completion of the required improvements.
   (B)   Certificates of occupancy may be issued, and buildings occupied only
when all of the following improvements are available and as further provided
below:
      (1)   Streets, passable for private, service and emergency vehicles under
normal weather conditions, provided that distance along such streets shall not
exceed one-fourth mile by normal routes;
      (2)   Driveways passable under normal weather conditions;
      (3)   Drainage assuring that under normal weather conditions there will
be no flooding of the building site or accessways to the site;
      (4)   Erosion protection acceptable under normal weather conditions; and
      (5)   Domestic water supply and sanitary sewerage.
   (C)   No such permits or certificates shall be issued unless improvements
are guaranteed and the applicant accepts tort liability pending completion of
all required improvements.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
ARTICLE G. AMENDMENTS
SEC. 9-5-161 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION REVIEW; RECOMMENDATION.
   All proposed amendments to these regulations, except those initiated by the
Planning and Zoning Commission, shall be submitted to the Planning and Zoning
Commission for its recommendations as to approval, approval with specified
alterations, or denial. Unless the recommendation is forthcoming within 60 days
of submittal, unless a longer period is agreed upon in writing by the person or
agency initiating the proposal, the City Council may proceed to act without a
recommendation.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-162 PUBLIC NOTICE AND HEARING.
   No such proposed amendment shall be acted upon by the City Council until
after a legislative hearing thereon, in accordance with G.S. 160D-301.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989; Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-5-163 LIMITATION ON RESUBMITTAL.
   Except when initiated by City Council or the Planning and Zoning Commission,
no proposed amendment failing of passage shall be considered in substantially
the same form within one year of rejection.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
ARTICLE H. VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES AND REMEDIES
SEC. 9-5-171 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   (A)   Civil penalties. A violation of any of the provisions of this article
shall subject the violator to a civil penalty by way of a civil ticket in an
amount as follows:
      (1)   First violation. A violation of an order issued by the enforcement
officer shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $100.
      (2)   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A second
violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein defined
first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
      (3)   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
   (B)   Appeals; payment of civil penalty. Unless appealed in accordance with
Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, a civil penalty
assessed for a violation of any provision of this section must be paid to and
received by the revenue division of the city's Financial Services Department
within five business days from the date of issuance.
   (C)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with the appeal provisions of this chapter, if full payment for an
assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the revenue division of the
city's Financial Services Department, the city may recover the unpaid civil
penalty by any or all of the following methods:
      (1)   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
      (2)   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
      (3)   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105 A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. § 18C-134.
      (4)   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (5)   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect, satisfy, or
otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
   (D)   Separate offenses. Each day's continuing violation shall be a separate
and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 23-048, § 17, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 9-5-172 REMEDIES.
   Appropriate actions and proceedings may be taken by law or in equity to
prevent any violation of these regulations, to prevent unlawful construction,
to recover damages, to restrain, correct or abate a violation and to prevent
illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
ARTICLE I. VARIANCES
SEC. 9-5-181 AUTHORIZED; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may vary the requirements of this
chapter where, because of the size of the tract to be subdivided, its
topography, the condition or nature of adjoining areas, or the existence of
other unusual physical conditions, strict compliance with the provisions of
this chapter could cause an unusual and unnecessary hardship on the subdivider.
   (B)   In granting variances, the Planning and Zoning Commission may require
such conditions as will secure, insofar as practicable, the objectives of the
requirement(s) varied. Any variance thus recommended is required to be entered
in writing in the minutes of the Planning and Zoning Commission and the
findings upon which departure was justified set forth.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
ARTICLE J. LEGAL STATUS AND EFFECTIVE DATE
SEC. 9-5-191 SEPARABILITY.
   If any part or provision of these regulations or application thereof to any
person or circumstances is adjudged invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such judgment shall be confined in its operation to the part,
provisions or application directly involved in the controversy in which the
judgment shall have been rendered and shall not affect or impair the validity
of the remainder of these regulations or the application thereof to other
persons or circumstances.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-192 REPEAL.
   Previous subdivision relations in effect up to the effective date of these
regulations are repealed as of the effective date of these regulations and
shall be superseded thereby except insofar as actions remain pending under
prior regulations.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
SEC. 9-5-193 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   These regulations shall be effective at 12:01 a.m. January 12, 1989.
(Ord. No. 1941, § 1, passed 1-12-1989)
CHAPTER 6: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
9-6-1   Statutory authorization, findings of fact, purpose and objectives
   
9-6-2   Definitions
   
9-6-3   General provisions
   
9-6-4   Administration
   
9-6-5   Provisions for flood hazard reduction
   
9-6-6   Legal statutes and provisions
Cross-reference:
   Emergency and rescue, see §§
5-3-1 et seq.
   Public Safety, generally, see Title 5
   Public Utilities, see Title 8
   Subdivisions within floodprone or flood hazard areas, see §
9-5-94
Editor’s note:
   Ch. 6 was rewritten by Ord. 20-022, enacted May 18, 2020, amending Ord. No.
03-123, enacted Dec. 15, 2003, with an effective date of Jan. 2, 2004. Former
Ch. 6, §§ 9-6-1—9-6-6 was replaced by § 1 of Ord. No. 98-8, enacted Jan. 8,
1998. Ch. 6, §§ 9-6-1—9-6-14 and 9-6-16—9-6-19, was repealed by § 1 of Ord. No.
1705, enacted April 9, 1987, and § 1 of Ord No. 1705 also enacted, in lieu
thereof, a new Ch. 6 as previously set forth in §§ 9-6-1—9-6-6. The repealed
provisions pertained to flood hazard areas and derived from Ord. No. 786,
adopted June 8, 1978.
SEC. 9-6-1 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The legislature of the State of North
Carolina has, in Part 6, Article 21 of G.S. Chapter 143; Part 2, Article 9,
G.S. Chapter 160D; and Article 8 of G.S. Chapter 160A, delegated the
responsibility to local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to
promote the public health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas within the jurisdiction of the City of
Greenville are subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life and
property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief,
and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public
health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities,
and by the occupancy in flood prone areas by uses vulnerable to floods or
hazardous to other lands which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions within flood prone areas by provisions designed
to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases
in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging and all other development which
may increase erosion or flood damage; and
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
   (D)   Objectives. The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To protect human life and health;
      (2)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   To minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
      (5)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets and bridges
located in flood prone areas;
      (6)   Minimize damage to private and public property due to flooding;
      (7)   Make flood insurance available to the community through the
National Flood Insurance Program;
      (8)   Maintain the natural and beneficial functions of floodplains;
      (9)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood
blight areas; and
      (10)   To ensure that potential homebuyers are notified that property is
in a special flood hazard area.
(Ord. No. 03-123, passed 12-15-2003; Ord. No. 20-022, passed 5-18-2020; Ord.
No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-6-2 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meanings they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
Accessory structure. A structure, which is located on the same parcel of
property as the principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the
use of the principal structure. Garages, carports and storage sheds are common
urban “accessory structures.” Pole barns, hay sheds and the like qualify as
“accessory structures” on farms, and may or may not be located on the same
parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
Addition (to an existing building). An extension or increase in the floor area
or height of a building or structure.
Alteration of a watercourse. A dam, impoundment, channel relocation, change in
channel alignment, channelization, or change in cross-sectional area of the
channel or the channel capacity, or any other form of modification which may
alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or velocity of the riverine
flow of water during conditions of the base flood.
Appeal. A request for a review of the Local Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
Area of shallow flooding. A designated AO or VO Zone on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident.
Area of special flood hazard.  See definition of special flood hazard area
(SFHA).
Base flood. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
Base flood elevation (BFE). A determination as published in the Flood Insurance
Study of the water surface elevations of the base flood.
Basement. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
Building. See definition of structure.
Chemical storage facility. A building, portion of a building, or exterior area
adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
Design flood.  See definition of regulatory flood protection elevation.
Development.  Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
Development activity. Any activity defined as development which will
necessitate a floodplain development permit. This includes buildings,
structures, and non-structural items, including (but not limited to) fill,
bulkheads, piers, pools, docks, landings, ramps, and erosion control/
stabilization measures.
Digital flood insurance rate map (DFIRM). The digital official map of a
community, issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), on which
both the special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community are delineated.
Disposal. Defined as in G.S. 130A-290(a)(6).
Elevated building. A non-basement building, which has its reference level
raised above the ground by means of pilings, columns (posts and piers), or
shear walls parallel to the flow of water.
Encroachment.  The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain, which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
Existing building and existing structure. Any building and/or structure for
which the "start of construction" commenced before June 8, 1978.
Existing manufactured home park or subdivision. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before June 8, 1978.
Flood or flooding. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and
   (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
Flood boundary and floodway map (FBFM). An official map of a community, issued
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which the Special flood hazard
areas and the floodways are delineated. This official map is a supplement to
and shall be used in conjunction with the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
Floodplain development permit.  Any type of permit including grading, building,
or any other development permit that is required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activity.
Flood hazard boundary map (FHBM).  An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the special
flood hazard have been defined as Zone A.
Flood insurance. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
Flood insurance rate map (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency on which both the special flood hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated.
Flood insurance study (FIS). An examination, evaluation, and determination of
flood hazard areas, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate),
flood insurance risk zones, and other flood data in a community issued by FEMA.
The Flood Insurance Study report includes Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) and
Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps (FBFMs), if published.
Floodplain or flood prone area. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source.
Floodplain administrator. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
Floodplain management. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations and open space plans.
Floodplain management regulations. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power which control development in
flood prone areas. This term describes federal, state or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage.
Flood prone area.  See definition of floodplain.
Floodproofing. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures, which reduce or eliminate risk of flood
damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation
facilities, or structures with their contents.
Flood-resistant material. Any building product [material, component or system]
capable of withstanding direct and prolonged contact (minimum 72 hours) with
floodwaters without sustaining damage that requires more than low-cost cosmetic
repair. Any material that is watersoluble or is not resistant to alkali or acid
in water, including normal adhesives for above-grade use, is not flood-
resistant. Pressure-treated lumber or naturally decay-resistant lumbers are
acceptable flooring materials. Sheet-type flooring coverings that restrict
evaporation from below and materials that are impervious, but dimensionally
unstable are not acceptable. Materials that absorb or retain water excessively
after submergence are not flood-resistant. Please refer to Technical Bulletin
2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials Requirements, and available from the FEMA.
Class 4 and 5 materials, referenced therein, are acceptable flood-resistant
materials.
Floodway.  The channel of a river or other watercourse including the area above
a bridge or culvert when applicable, and the adjacent land areas that must be
reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing
the water surface elevation more than one foot.
Floodway encroachment analysis. An engineering analysis of the impact that a
proposed encroachment into a floodway or non-encroachment area is expected to
have on the floodway boundaries and flood levels during the occurrence of the
base flood discharge. The evaluation shall be prepared by a qualified North
Carolina licensed engineer using standard engineering methods and models.
Flood zone. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or Flood
Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
Floor.  See definition of lowest floor.
Freeboard. The additional amount of height added to the base flood elevation
(BFE) to account for uncertainties in the determination of flood elevations.
See also definition of regulatory flood protection elevation.
Functionally dependent facility. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to
water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and
unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does
not include long-term storage, manufacture, sales or service facilities.
Hazardous waste management facility. A facility for the collection, storage,
processing, treatment, recycling, recovery or disposal of hazardous waste as
defined in G.S. Chapter 130A, Article 9.
Highest adjacent grade (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
Historic structure. Any structure that is:
   (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the United States Department of Interior) or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
   (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior as
contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district
or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a
registered historic district;
   (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places; or
   (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either
by an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of Interior, or
directly by the Secretary of Interior in states without approved programs.
Letter of map change (LOMC). An official determination issued by FEMA that
amends or revises an effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or Flood Insurance
Study. Letters of Map Change include:
   (1)   Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA): An official amendment, by letter, to
an effective National Flood Insurance Program map. A LOMA is based on technical
data showing that a property had been inadvertently mapped as being in the
floodplain, but is actually on natural high ground above the base flood
elevation. A LOMA amends the current effective Flood Insurance Rate Map and
establishes that a specific property, portion of a property, or structure is
not located in a special flood hazard area;
   (2)   Letter of Map Revision (LOMR): A revision based on technical data that
may show changes to flood zones, flood elevations, special flood hazard area
boundaries and floodway delineations, and other planimetric features;
   (3)   Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F): A determination that a
structure or parcel of land has been elevated by fill above the BFE and is,
therefore, no longer located within the special flood hazard area. In order to
qualify for this determination, the fill must have been permitted and placed in
accordance with the community's floodplain management regulations;
   (4)   Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR): A formal review and
comment as to whether a proposed project complies with the minimum NFIP
requirements for such projects with respect to delineation of special flood
hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or
Flood Insurance Study; upon submission and approval of certified asbuilt
documentation, a Letter of Map Revision may be issued by FEMA to revise the
effective FIRM.
Light duty truck. Any motor vehicle rated at 8,500 pounds gross vehicular
weight rating or less which has a vehicular curb weight of 6,000 pounds or less
and which has a basic vehicle frontal area of 45 square feet or less as defined
in 40 CFR 86.082-2 and is:
   (l)   Designed primarily for purposes of transportation of property or is a
derivation of such a vehicle, or
   (2)   Designed primarily for transportation of persons and has a capacity of
more than 12 persons; or
   (3)   Available with special features enabling off-street or off-highway
operation and use.
Lowest adjacent grade (LAG).  The elevation of the ground, sidewalk, patio slab
immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion of the
building.
Lowest floor.  Subfloor, top of slab or grade of the lowest enclosed area
(including basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely
for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s “lowest floor,” provided that such
an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
Manufactured home. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
“manufactured home” does not include a recreational vehicle.
 Manufactured home park (MHP) or subdivision.  A parcel (or contiguous parcels)
of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
Market value.  The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. “Market value” can be established by independent certified
appraisal, replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value)
or adjusted assessed values.
New construction. Structures for which the start of construction commenced on
or after the effective date of the original version of this chapter and
includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
Nonconforming building or use.  Any legally existing building or use which
fails to comply with the current provisions of this chapter.
Non-conversion agreement. A document stating that the owner will not convert or
alter what has been constructed and approved. Violation of the agreement is
considered a violation of the ordinance and, therefore, subject to the same
enforcement procedures and penalties. The agreement must be filed with the
recorded deed for the property. The agreement must show the clerk's or
recorder's stamps and/or notations that the filing has been completed.
Non-encroachment area. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot
as designated in the Flood Insurance Study report.
Obstruction.  Includes but is not limited to any dam, wall, wharf, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill, structure,
vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into any
watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
Post-firm.  Construction or other development, which started on or after
January 1, 1975, or on or after the effective date of the initial Flood
Insurance Rate Map for the area, whichever is later.
Pre-firm. Construction or other development, which started before January 1,
1975 or before the effective date of the initial Flood Insurance Rate Map for
the area, whichever is later.
Principally above ground. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
Public safety and/or nuisance. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
Recreational vehicle (RV). A vehicle, which is:
   (1)   Built on a single chassis;
   (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
   (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as a
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   (5)   Is fully licensed and ready for highway use.
Reference level.  The portion of a structure or other development that must be
compared to the regulatory flood protection elevation to determine regulatory
compliance of the building. Within special flood hazard areas designated as
Zones A1-A30, AE, A, A99, AO or AH, the reference level is the top of the
lowest floor or lowest attendant utility (including ductwork), whichever is
lower.
Regulatory flood protection elevation. The elevation to which all structures
and other development located within the special flood hazard areas must be
elevated or floodproofed, if nonresidential.
   (1)   In “Special Flood Hazard Areas” where base flood elevations (BFEs)
have been determined, this elevation shall be at least the BFE plus two (2)
feet for all structures and other development.
   (2)   In “Special Flood Hazard Areas” where no BFE has been established,
this elevation shall be at least two (2) feet above the highest adjacent grade.
Remedy a violation. To bring the structure or other development into compliance
with state or local floodplain management regulations, or, if this is not
possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that impact may be
reduced include protecting the structure or other affected development from
flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of this chapter or
otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal financial
exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
Repetitive loss structure. Any insurable building for which two or more claims
of more than $ 1,000 were paid by the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP)
within any rolling ten-year period, since 1978. A RL property may or may not be
currently insured by the NFIP.
Retrofitting. Measures, such as floodproofing, elevation, construction of small
levees, and other modifications, taken on an existing building or its yard to
protect it from flood damage.
Riverine.  Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
Salvage yard. Property used for the storage, collection and/or recycling of any
type of equipment whatsoever, whether industrial or noncommercial, and
including but not limited to vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
Special flood hazard area (SFHA).  The land in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of being flooded in any given year as determined in section
9-6-3(B) of this chapter.
Solid waste disposal facility. Any facility involved in the disposal of solid
waste, as defined in G.S. 130A-290(a)(35).
Solid waste disposal site. Defined as in G.S. 130A-290(a)(36).
Start of construction. Includes substantial improvements, and the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was
within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure (including a manufactured
home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings, installation of
piles, construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation or
the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction
does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor
does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it
include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations, or the
erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual “start of construction” means the first alteration of
any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building, whether or
not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
Structure. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building, a
manufactured home, or a gas or liquid storage tank, or that is principally
above ground.
Substantial damage. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure during any one-year period to its before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 49% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of substantial
improvement. “Substantial damage” also means flood-related damage sustained by
a structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the
cost of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or
exceeds 25% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
Substantial improvement. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any one-year period whereby the cost of which equals or exceeds 49% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any project of improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
Technical bulletin and technical fact sheet. A FEMA publication that provides
guidance concerning the building performance standards of the NFIP, which are
contained in Title 44 of the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations at Section 60.3.
The bulletins and fact sheets are intended for use primarily by State and local
officials responsible for interpreting and enforcing NFIP regulations and by
members of the development community, such as design professionals and
builders. New bulletins, as well as updates of existing bulletins, are issued
periodically as needed. The bulletins do not create regulations; rather they
provide specific guidance for complying with the minimum requirements of
existing NFIP regulations. It should be noted that technical bulletins and
technical fact sheets provide guidance on the minimum requirements of the NFIP
regulations. State or community requirements that exceed those of the NFIP take
precedence. Design professionals should contact the community officials to
determine whether more restrictive State or local regulations apply to the
building or site in question. All applicable standards of the State or local
building code must also be met for any building in a flood hazard area.
Temperature controlled. Having the temperature regulated by a heating and/or
cooling system, built-in or appliance.
Variance. A grant of relief from the requirement of this chapter that permits
construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where specific
enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
Violation. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in sections
9-6-4 and
9-6-5 is presumed to be in violation until such time as the documentation is
provided.
Watercourse.  A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other topographic
feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically. “Watercourse”
includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood damage may
occur.
Water surface elevation (WSE).  The height, in relation to NAVD 1988, of floods
of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Ord. No. 03-123, passed 12-15-2003; Ord. No. 14-031, passed 5-8-2014; Ord. No.
20-022, passed 5-18-2020; Ord. No. 22-056, passed 6-9-2022)
SEC. 9-6-3 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which this chapter applies.  This chapter shall apply to all
special flood hazard areas within the jurisdiction, including extraterritorial
jurisdictions (ETJ) if applicable, of the City of Greenville.
   (B)   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas.
      (1)   The Special Flood Hazard Areas are those identified under the
Cooperating Technical State (CTS) agreement between the State of North Carolina
and Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in its Flood Insurance Study
(FIS) for Pitt County, dated June 19, 2020, and its accompanying Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), including any digital data developed as part of the
FIS, and all revisions thereto after January 1, 2021, which are adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this ordinance. Future revisions to the
FIS or FIRM panels that do not change flood hazard data within the
jurisdictional authority of the City of Greenville are also adopted by
reference and declared to be part of this ordinance. Subsequent Letter of Map
Revisions (LOMRs) and/or Physical Map Revisions (PMRs) shall be adopted within
3 months.
      (2)   The initial Flood Insurance Rate Map for the City of Greenville is
dated July 3,1978.
   (C)   Establishment of development permit. A floodplain development permit
shall be required in conformance with the provisions of this chapter prior to
the commencement of any development activities within the special flood hazard
area to which this chapter applies.
   (D)   Compliance.  No structure or land shall hereafter be located,
extended, converted, altered or developed in any way without full compliance
with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
   (E)   Abrogation and greater restrictions.  This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another ordinance conflict or
overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (F)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this chapter
all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
    (G)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering consideration. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Actual flood heights may be increased by man-made
or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the special
flood hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part
of the city or by any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that
result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully
made thereunder.
   (H)   Penalties for violation.  Violation of the provisions of this chapter
or failure to comply with any of its requirements, including violation of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants of variance or
special exceptions, shall constitute a Class 1 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. §
143-215.58. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of
its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $100 or
imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. No. 03-123, passed 12-15-2003; Ord. No. 13-015, § 1, passed 4-11-2013;
Ord. No. 14-031, passed 5-8-2014; Ord. No. 20-022, passed 5-18-2020)
SEC. 9-6-4 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Designation of Local Floodplain Administrator.  The City Engineer or a
designee is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions of this
chapter. For the purposes of this chapter, the City Engineer or designee shall
hereafter be referred to as “Local Floodplain Administrator.”
   (B)   Floodplain development permit and certification requirements; plans
and application requirements.  Application for a floodplain development permit
shall be made to the Local Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him
or her prior to any development activities within flood prone areas. The
following items/information shall be presented to the Local Floodplain
Administrator to apply for a floodplain development permit:
      (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
         (b)   The boundary of the Special Flood Hazard Area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in Section
9-6-3(B), or a statement that the entire lot is within the Special Flood Hazard
Area;
         (c)   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in Section
9-6-3(B);
         (d)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in Section
9-6-3(B);
         (e)   The Base Flood Elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in
Section
9-6-3(B); Section
9-6-4 (E); or Section
9-6-5(D);
         (f)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
         (g)   The certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor
or professional engineer.
      (2)   Where base flood elevation data is provided in accordance with
section
9-6-3(B) or section
9-6-4(E)(11), the application for a floodplain development permit within the
Zone A on the Flood Insurance Rate Map shall show:
         (a)   The elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest
floor (including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
         (b)   If the structure has been floodproofed in accordance with
section
9-6-5(B)(2), the elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) to which the structure
was floodproofed; and
         (c)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 to which any proposed utility
systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
      (3)   Where the base flood elevation data is not provided, the
application for a development permit must show construction of the lowest floor
at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade;
      (4)   Where any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of
proposed development, the application for a development permit shall include: a
description of the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; an
engineering report on the effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying
capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties located both upstream
and downstream; and a map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation;
      (5)   When a structure is floodproofed, the applicant shall provide a
floodproofing certificate and back-up plans from a registered professional
engineer or architect that the nonresidential floodproofed structure meets the
floodproofing criteria in section 9-6-5(B)(2);
      (6)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) or floodproofing
certificate (FEMA Form 81-65) is required after the reference level is
completed. Within 21 calendar days of establishment of the reference level
elevation, or floodproofing, by whatever construction means, whichever is
applicable, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Local
Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of the reference
level, or floodproofed elevation, whichever is applicable in relation to NAVD
1988. The certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of
a registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same. When
floodproofing is utilized, the certification shall be prepared by or under the
direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by
same. Any work done within the 21-day calendar period and prior to submission
of the certification shall be at the permit holder’s risk. The Local Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and
prior to further progressive work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit
the certification or failure to make the corrections required shall be cause to
issue a stop-work order for the project;
      (7)   A final as-built elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) or
floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form 81-65) is required after construction is
completed and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall
be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Local Floodplain
Administrator a certification of final as-built construction of the elevation
or floodproofed elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities.
The certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same. When
floodproofing is utilized, the certification shall be prepared by or under the
direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by
same. The Local Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make the corrections required shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy;
      (8)   If a manufactured home is placed within an A, AO, AE or A1-30 Zone
and the elevation of the chassis is above 36 inches in height, an engineered
foundation certification is required per section
9-6-3(B);
      (9)   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a description of
the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; an engineering report on
the effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying capacity of the
watercourse and the effects to properties located both upstream and downstream;
and a map showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior to issuance of
a floodplain development permit;
      (10)   A foundation plan drawn to scale which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met. These details include but are not limited to:
         (a)   Proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill, solid
foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation on
columns/piers);
         (b)   Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used in floodplains,
details of sufficient openings to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters in accordance with section 9-6-5(B)(5).
      (11)   Usage details of any enclosed space below the regulatory flood
protection elevation;
      (12)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (13)   Copy of all other local, state and federal permits required prior
to floodplain development permit issuance (i.e., wetlands, erosion and
sedimentation control, riparian buffers, mining and the like); and
      (14)   If floodplain development permit is issued for placement of
recreational vehicles and/or temporary structures, documentation to ensure
section
9-6-5(B)(4) and (B)(6) of this Code are met.
   (C)   Certification exemptions.  The following structures, if located within
A, AO, AE or A1-30 Zones, are exempt from the elevation/floodproofing
certification requirements specified in subsections (A) and (B) above:
      (1)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of section
9-6-5(B)(4);
      (2)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of section
9-6-5(B)(6); and
      (3)   Accessory structures less than 150 square feet meeting requirements
of section
9-6-5(B)(7).
   (D)   Determinations for existing buildings and structures. For applications
for building permits to improve buildings and structures, including
alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy,
additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements, repairs of
substantial damage, and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and
structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with the Building
Official, shall:
      (1)   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work; in the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
      (2)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
      (3)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
      (4)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that compliance
with the flood resistant construction requirements of the NC Building Code and
this ordinance is required.
   (E)   Floodplain development permit data requirements.  The following
information shall be provided at a minimum on the floodplain development permit
to ensure compliance with this Code:
      (1)   A complete description of the development to be permitted under the
floodplain development permit (e.g. house, garage, pool, septic, bulkhead,
cabana, pier, bridge, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or
drilling operations, or storage of equipment or materials, etc.);
      (2)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development per available data specified in section
9-6-3(B);
      (3)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities;
      (4)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities;
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines;
      (6)   State that no fill material shall encroach into the floodway or
non-encroachment area of any watercourse, if applicable unless the requirements
of section 9-6-5(C) have been met;
      (7)   If in an A, AO, AE or A1-30 Zone, specify the minimum foundation
opening requirements;
      (8)   State limitations of below BFE enclosure uses (if applicable)
(i.e., parking, building access and limited storage only); and
      (9)   A statement that all materials below BFE/RFPE must be flood
resistant materials.
   (F)   Duties and responsibilities of the Local Floodplain Administrator.
Duties of the Local Floodplain Administrator shall include but not be limited
to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits
for all proposed development within flood prone areas to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Advise permittee that additional federal or state permits (i.e.,
wetlands, erosion and sedimentation control, riparian buffers, mining, and the
like) may be required, and if specific federal or state permit requirements are
known, require that copies of such permits be provided and maintained on file
with the floodplain development permit;
      (3)   Notify adjacent communities and the North Carolina Department of
Crime Control and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State
Coordinator for the National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or
relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency;
      (4)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (5)   Prevent encroachments within floodways and non-encroachment areas
unless the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of section
9-6-5 are met;
      (6)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially improved
structures, and all attendant utilities in accordance with subsection (B)(7) or
(8) of this section;
      (7)   Obtain the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to
which the new or substantially improved structures and all utilities have been
floodproofed, in accordance with subsection (B)(7) or (8) of this section;
      (8)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all
public utilities, in accordance with subsection (B) above;
      (9)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
Local Floodplain Administrator shall obtain certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect, in accordance with this section and section
9-6-5(B)(2);
      (10)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the special flood hazard areas (for example, where there appears
to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions), the
Local Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. The
person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in this chapter;
      (11)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with section 9-6-3(B), then the Local Floodplain Administrator shall obtain,
review and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation along with floodway data
and/or non-encroachment area data available from a federal, state or other
source, including data developed pursuant to section
9-6-5(E)(4) in order to administer the provisions of section
9-6-5;
      (12)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway
nor non-encroachment area data has been provided in accordance with section
9-6-3(B), obtain, review and reasonably utilize any floodway data, and/or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state or other source in order
to administer the provisions of this chapter;
      (13)   When the exact location of boundaries of the special flood hazard
areas conflict with the current, natural topography information at the site,
the property owner may apply and be approved for a Letter of Map Amendment
(LOMA) by FEMA. A copy of the Letter of Map Amendment issued from FEMA will be
maintained by the Local Floodplain Administrator in the permit file;
      (14)   Make on-site inspections of projects in accordance with subsection
(F) below. As the work pursuant to a floodplain development permit progresses,
the Local Floodplain Administrator shall make as many inspections of the work
as may be necessary to ensure that the work is being done according to the
provisions of the local ordinance and the terms of the permit. In exercising
this power, the Local Floodplain Administrator has a right, upon presentation
of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the jurisdiction of the
community at any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection or other
enforcement action;
      (15)   Serve notices of violations, issue stop-work orders, revoke
permits and take corrective actions in accordance with subsection (F) below.
Whenever a building or part thereof is being constructed, reconstructed,
altered or repaired in violation of this chapter, the Local Floodplain
Administrator may order the work to be immediately stopped. The stop-work order
shall be in writing and directed to the person doing the work. The stop-work
order shall state the specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for
the stoppage, and the condition(s) under which the work may be resumed.
Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a misdemeanor;
      (16)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall be
permanently maintained in the office of the Local Floodplain Administrator and
shall be open for public inspection;
      (17)   Annexation: provide the North Carolina Department of Crime Control
and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator for the
National Flood Insurance Program with two copies of the maps delineating new
corporate limits within six months from date of annexation or change in
corporate boundaries;
      (18)   Revocation of floodplain development permits as required. The
Local Floodplain Administrator may revoke and require the return of the
floodplain development permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating
the reason(s) for the revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial
departure from the approved application, plans, or specifications; for refusal
or failure to comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false
statements or misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain
development permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or
local law may also be revoked;
      (19)   Make periodic inspections throughout all special flood hazard
areas within the jurisdiction of the community. The Local Floodplain
Administrator and each member of his or her inspections department shall have a
right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within
the territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
      (20)   Follow through with corrective procedures of subsection (F) below;
      (21)   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance
requests;
      (22)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to,
historical and effective FIS Report, historical and effective FIRM and other
official flood maps and studies adopted in accordance with the provisions of
Section
9-6-3(B) of this ordinance, including any revisions thereto including Letters
of Map Change, issued by FEMA. Notify State and FEMA of mapping needs; and
      (23)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including Letters
of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-Fs) and Letters of Map Revision (LOMRs).
   (G)   Administrative corrective procedures.
      (1)   Violations to be corrected. When the Local Floodplain Administrator
finds violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her
duty to notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The
owner or occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law in the
property he or she owns.
      (2)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action.  If the
owner of a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action,
the Local Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by
certified or registered mail to his or her last known address or by personal
service, stating that:
         (a)   The building or property is in violation of the Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinance;
         (b)   A hearing will be held before the Local Floodplain Administrator
at a designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
         (c)   Following the hearing, the Local Floodplain Administrator may
issue an order to alter, vacate or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
appears appropriate.
      (3)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant
to the notice prescribed above, the Local Floodplain Administrator finds that
the building or development is in violation of the Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance, he or she shall make an order in writing to the owner, requiring the
owner to remedy the violation within 60 days. The Local Floodplain
Administrator may prescribe a period shorter than 60 days; provided that the
Local Floodplain Administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life or
other property.
       (4)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective
action may appeal from the order to the Board of Adjustment by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Local Floodplain Administrator and the City Clerk
within ten days following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an
appeal, the order of the Local Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The
Board of Adjustment shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may
affirm, modify and affirm, or revoke the order.
      (5)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or
property fails to comply with an order to take corrective action from which no
appeal has been taken, or fails to comply with an order of the Board of
Adjustment following an appeal, he or she shall be guilty of a Class 1
misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 143-215.58 and shall be punished in the discretion
of the court.
   (H)   Variances.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment as established by the city shall hear and
decide requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Adjustment or
any taxpayer may appeal the decision to the Superior Court as provided in G.S.
Chapter 7A of the North Carolina General Statutes.
      (3)   Variance may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon the determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure
and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
      (4)   In passing upon such applications for variances, the Board of
Adjustment shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all
standards specified in other sections of this chapter and:
         (a)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (b)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         (e)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         (f)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
         (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (j)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         (k)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
      (5)   The findings listed above shall be submitted to the Board of
Adjustment, in writing, and included in the application for a variance.
      (6)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above, and the purposes of
this chapter, the Board of Adjustment may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this
chapter.
      (7)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
non-encroachment area if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
      (8)   Conditions for variances:
         (a)   Variances may not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state or local laws, regulations or
ordinances.
         (b)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         (c)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            1.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship; and
            3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or chapters.
         (d)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and
the elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost
of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced reference level elevation. Such notification shall be maintained
with a record of all variance actions.
         (e)   The Local Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of
all appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and the State of North Carolina upon request.
      (9)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage
facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas, provided that all of
the following conditions are met. A floodplain development permit may be issued
for such development only if a variance is granted:
         (a)   The use serves a critical need in the community;
         (b)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special
flood hazard area;
         (c)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or floodproofed
to at least the regulatory flood protection level;
         (d)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and
local law; and
         (e)   The City of Greenville has notified the Secretary of the North
Carolina Department of Crime Control and Public Safety of its intention to
grant a variance at least 30 days prior to granting the variance.
(Ord. No. 03-123, passed 12-15-2003; Ord. No. 20-022, passed 5-18-2020)
SEC. 9-6-5 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   (A)   General standards. In all special flood hazard areas the following
provisions are required:
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvement shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
      (3)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      (4)   All new electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities shall be elevated to the
regulatory flood protection elevation and designed so as to prevent water from
entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding.
These include but are not limited to HVAC equipment, water softener units,
bath/kitchen fixtures, duct work, electric meter panels/boxes, utility/cable
boxes, appliances (i.e., washers, dryers, refrigerator and the like), hot water
heaters, electric outlets/switches;
         (a)   Replacements part of a substantial improvement, electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment, and other service
equipment shall also meet the above provisions.
         (b)   Replacements that are for maintenance and not part of a
substantial improvement, may be installed at the original location provided the
addition and/or improvements only comply with the standards for new
construction consistent with the code and requirements for the original
structure.
      (5)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems;
      (6)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters;
      (7)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
      (8)   Nonconforming structures or other development may not be enlarged,
replaced or rebuilt unless the enlargement or reconstruction is accomplished in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter. Provided, however, nothing in
this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction or replacement of a
building or structure existing on the effective date of this chapter and
located totally or partially within the floodway, non-encroachment area, or
stream setback provided that the bulk of the building or structure below
regulatory flood protection elevation in the floodway, non-encroachment area,
or stream setback is not increased and provided that such repair,
reconstruction or replacement meets all of the other requirements of this
chapter; and
      (9)   New solid waste disposal facilities, hazardous waste management
facilities, salvage yards and chemical storage facilities shall not be
permitted in special flood hazard areas. A structure or tank for chemical or
fuel storage incidental to an allowed use or to the operation of a water
treatment plant or wastewater treatment facility may be located in a special
flood hazard area only if the structure or tank is either elevated or
floodproofed to at least the regulatory flood protection elevation and
certified according to section
9-6-4(B) of this chapter.
   (B)   Specific standards.  In all special flood hazard areas where base
flood elevation data have been provided as set forth in section
9-6-3(B) or section
9-6-4(E)(11) and (12), the following provisions are required:
      (1)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall
have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation. Electrical, heating, ventilation, air-
conditioning, plumbing, duct systems, and other equipment and service
facilities shall be elevated at or above the RFPE, with the exception of
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment, and
other service equipment that are designed and installed to prevent water from
entering or accumulating within the components and to resist hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and stresses, including the effects of buoyancy, during the
occurrence of flooding to the design flood elevation.
(Ord. No. 00-19, § 4, passed 2-10-2000)
      (2)   Nonresidential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation. Structures located in Zones A, AE, AH,
AO, A99 may be floodproofed to the regulatory flood protection elevation in
lieu of being elevated, provided that all areas of the structure, together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below the required flood protection
elevation are watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water, and use structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. For AO Zones,
the floodproofing elevation shall be in accordance with Section 9-6-5(G)(2). A
registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the standards
of this subsection are satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to the
official as set forth in section 9-6-4(B)(3) along with the operational plan
and the inspection and maintenance plan.
      (3)   Manufactured homes.
         (a)   New or replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated on a
foundation such that the reference level of the manufactured home is elevated
no lower than the regulatory flood protection elevation and be securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse and lateral movement. For manufactured homes being used for
residential purposes, electrical, heating, ventilation, air-conditioning,
plumbing, duct systems, and other equipment and service facilities shall be
elevated at or above the RFPE, with the exception of electrical, heating,
ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment, and other service equipment
that are designed and installed to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components and to resist hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and
stresses, including the effects of buoyancy, during the occurrence of flooding
to the design flood elevation.
         (b)   Manufactured homes that are to be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that are
not subject to the provisions of subsection (B)(3)(a) above must be elevated so
that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, and be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse and lateral
movement in accordance with the State of North Carolina Regulations for
Manufactured/Mobile Homes, 1995 Edition and any revision thereto adopted by the
Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to G.S. 143-143.15 or a certified engineered
foundation. Additionally, all manufactured homes located in special flood
hazard areas must be installed either on a pre-approved foundation design from
the Manual of Standard Designs and Details or on a foundation design certified
by a professional engineer registered in the State of North Carolina.
Furthermore, all tanks, decks, porches and steps to the manufactured home must
be sufficiently designed and anchored to prevent collapse and/or flotation off
the site, except that porches and steps serving a manufactured home on a lot
that is less than five feet below the lowest floor of the manufactured home at
the location of the porch or steps shall not be required to be anchored.
         (c)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Local Floodplain Administrator and
the local Emergency Management Coordinator.
         (d)   When the elevation of the manufactured home would be met by an
elevation of the chassis 36 inches or less above the grade at the site, the
chassis shall be supported by reinforced piers or other foundation elements of
at least equivalent strength.
         (e)   If a manufactured home is placed with the elevation of the
chassis above 36 inches in height, an engineered foundation certification is
required per subsection (B)(3).
         (f)   All foundation enclosures or skirting shall be in accordance
with subsection (B)(5) of this section.
      (4)   Recreational vehicles.  Recreational vehicles placed on sites
within a special flood hazard area shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational
vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is
attached to the site only by quick- disconnect type utilities and has no
permanently attached additions); or
         (c)   Meet all the requirements for new construction, including
anchoring and elevation requirements of section
9-6-4(B) and subsections (A) and (B)(3) of this section.
      (5)   Elevated buildings. New construction or substantial improvements of
elevated buildings that include fully enclosed areas that are below the
regulatory flood protection elevation shall not be designed for human
habitation, but shall be designed to be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles, building access or limited storage of maintenance equipment used in
connection with the premises in an area other than a basement, be constructed
entirely of flood resistant materials below the regulatory flood protection
level and meet the following design criteria.
          (a)   Measures for complying with this requirement shall be designed
to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by
allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the
foundation must either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or
meet the following minimum criteria:
            1.   Provide a minimum of two openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding having a total net area of not less than one
square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above the adjacent grade;
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions;
            4.   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each area must
have openings on exterior walls to allow floodwater to directly enter; and
            5.   Foundation enclosures:
               a.   Vinyl or sheet metal skirting is not considered an
enclosure for regulatory and flood insurance rating purposes. Therefore such
skirting does not require hydrostatic openings as outlined above.
               b.   Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural
status, is considered an enclosure and requires hydrostatic openings as
outlined above to comply with this chapter.
         (b)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator); and
         (c)   The interior portion of the enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms except to enclose storage areas.
         (d)   Where the lowest floor is more than four feet high, property
owners shall be required to execute and record a non-conversion agreement prior
to issuance of a building permit declaring that the area below the lowest floor
shall not be improved, finished or otherwise converted to habitable space and
the Floodplain Administrator shall have the right to inspect the enclosed area.
This agreement shall be recorded with the Pitt County Register of Deeds and
shall transfer with the property in perpetuity.
         (e)   Release of restrictive covenant. If a property which is bound by
a nonconversion agreement is modified to remove enclosed areas below the
regulatory flood elevation, then the owner may request release of restrictive
covenant after staff inspection and submittal of confirming documentation.
      (6)   Temporary structures. Prior to the issuance of a floodplain
development permit for a temporary structure, the following requirements must
be met:
         (a)   All applicants must submit to the Local Floodplain Administrator
prior to the issuance of the floodplain development permit a plan for the
removal of the structure(s) in the event of a hurricane or flash flood warning
notification. The plan must include the following information:
            1.   A specific time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted:
            2.   The name, address and phone number of the individual
responsible for the removal of the temporary structure;
            3.   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
            4.   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with a
trucking company to ensure the availability of removal equipment when needed;
and
            5.   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location
outside the floodplain to which the temporary structure will be moved.
         (b)   The above information shall be submitted in writing to the Local
Administrator for review and written approval.
      (7)   Accessory structures. When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages and the like) are to be placed in the floodplain, the following
criteria shall be met:
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including work, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
         (b)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistant to the flow of flood waters;
         (d)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
subsection (A)(1) above;
         (e)   All service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment
shall be elevated in accordance with subsection (A)(4) above; and
            1.    Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall
be provided below regulatory flood protection elevation in conformance with
subsection (B)(5).
            2.    An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square
feet does not require an elevation or floodproofing certificate. Elevation or
floodproofing certifications are required for all other accessory structures in
accordance with section
9-6-4(B).
      (8)   Additions/improvements.
         (a)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures whereas the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure:
             1.   Are not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any
more nonconforming than the existing structure;
            2.   Are a substantial improvement, both the existing structure and
the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
         (b)   Additions to post-FIRM structures with no modifications to the
existing structure shall require only the addition to comply with the standards
for new construction.
         (c)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures whereas
the addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications
to the existing structure:
            1.   Are not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements only must comply with the standards for new construction;
            2.   Are a substantial improvement, both the existing structure and
the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
         (d)   Where a fire wall or independent perimeter load-bearing wall is
provided between the addition and the existing building, the addition(s) shall
be considered a separate building and only the addition must comply with the
standards for new construction.
         (e)   Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition or improvement of a building or structure taking place during a one-
year period, the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds 49% of the market
value of the structure before the improvement or repair is started must comply
with the standards for new construction. For each building or structure, the
one-year period begins on the date of the first improvement or repair of that
building or structure subsequent to the date of this ordinance. Substantial
damage also means floodrelated damage sustained by a structure on two separate
occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at the time of
each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of the market
value of the structure before the damage occurred. If the structure has
sustained substantial damage, any repairs are considered substantial
improvement regardless of the actual repair work performed. The requirement
does not, however, include either:
            l.   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary or safety code violations identified by the building
official and that are the minimum necessary to assume safe living conditions.
            2.   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
      (9)   Tanks. When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed within a
Special Flood Hazard Area, the following criteria shall be met:
         (a)   Underground tanks. Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall
be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood,
including the effects of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty;
         (b)   Above-ground tanks, elevated. Above-ground tanks in flood hazard
areas shall be elevated to or above the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation
on a supporting structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement during conditions of the design flood. Tank-supporting
structures shall meet the foundation requirements of the applicable flood
hazard area;
         (c)   Above-ground tanks, not elevated. Above-ground tanks that do not
meet the elevation requirements of section
9-6-5 (B)(2) of this ordinance shall be permitted in flood hazard areas
provided the tanks are designed, constructed, installed, and anchored to resist
all flood-related and other loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during
conditions of the design flood and without release of contents in the
floodwaters or infiltration by floodwaters into the tanks. Tanks shall be
designed, constructed, installed, and anchored to resist the potential buoyant
and other flood forces acting on an empty tank during design flood conditions.
         (d)   Tank inlets and vents. Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and
vents shall be:
            1.   At or above the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation or
fitted with covers designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of
the contents of the tanks during conditions of the design flood; and
            2.   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during
conditions of the design flood.
      (10)   Other development.
         (a)   Fences in regulated floodways and NEAs that have the potential
to block the passage of floodwaters, such as stockade fences and wire mesh
fences, shall meet the limitations of section
9-6-5(C) of this ordinance.
         (b)   Retaining walls, sidewalks and driveways in regulated floodways
and NEAs. Retaining walls and sidewalks and driveways that involve the
placement of fill in regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of section
9-6-5(C) of this ordinance.
         (c)   Roads and watercourse crossings in regulated floodways and NEAs.
Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges, culverts, lowwater
crossings and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to travel from one side
of a watercourse to the other side, that encroach into regulated floodways
shall meet the limitations of section
9-6-5(C) of this ordinance.
   (C)   Floodways and non-encroachment areas.  Located within special flood
hazard areas established in section
9-6-3(B) are areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas. Since the
floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous areas due to the
velocity of flood waters which carry debris, potential projectiles and have
erosion potential, the following provisions shall apply to all development
within such areas:
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless it has been
demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance
with standard engineering practice that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in flood levels during occurrence of the base flood.
Such certification and technical data shall be presented to the Local
Floodplain Administrator.
      (2)   If subsection (C)(1) is satisfied, all development and substantial
improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions
of this chapter.
      (3)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except replacement
manufactured homes in an existing manufactured homes (mobile homes) park or
subdivision, provided the anchoring and the elevation standards of subsection
(B)(3), and the non-encroachment standards of subsection (B)(1) are met.
      (4)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3, a
community may permit encroachments within the adopted regulatory floodway or
non-encroachment area that would result in an increase in base flood
elevations, provided that the community first applies for a conditional LOMR
and floodway revision, fulfills the requirements for such revisions as
established under the provisions of 44 C.F.R. § 65.12 of the “National Flood
Insurance Program and Related Regulations,” and receives the approval of the
Local Floodplain Administrator prior to commencement of the development.
   (D)   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations.
Within the special flood hazard areas established in section 9-6-3(B) are
floodplains where no base flood elevation data has been provided, the following
provisions shall apply:
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted within a distance of the
stream bank equal to five times the width of the stream at the top of bank or
20 feet each side from top of bank, whichever is greater, unless certification
with supporting technical data by a registered professional engineer is
provided demonstrating that the encroachments shall not result in any increase
in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      (2)   If subsection (E)(1) is satisfied and base flood elevation is
available from other source, all new construction and substantial improvements
within such areas shall comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter
and shall be elevated or floodproofed in accordance with elevations established
in accordance with section
9-6-4(E)(11) and (12). When base flood elevation data is not available from a
federal, state or other source, the reference level, including basement, shall
be elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   (E)   Standards for subdivision, manufactured home park and major
development proposals.
      (1)   All proposals shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      (2)   All proposals shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize
flood damage;
      (3)   All proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood hazards; and
      (4)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for all proposals and
other proposed development, which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots/
manufactured home sites or five acres. Such base flood elevation (BFE) data
shall be adopted by reference per section
9-6-3(B) to be utilized in implementing this Code.
   (F)   Standards for floodplains with BFE but without established floodways
or non-encroachment areas. Along rivers and streams where base flood elevation
(BFE) data is provided but neither floodway nor non-encroachment areas are
identified for a special flood hazard area on the FIRM or in the FIS, no
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, or
other development, shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided, demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within the
community.
   (G)   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (AH Zones). Located within the
special flood hazard areas established in section
9-6-3(B) are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and indeterminate. The following provisions apply within such
areas:
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements of all structures
shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the depth number
specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map, in feet, above the highest adjacent
grade. If no depth number is specified, the lowest floor, including basement,
shall be elevated at least to the regulatory flood protection elevation as
defined for the special flood hazard areas where no BFE has been established.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures shall have the option, in lieu of elevation, to be completely
floodproofed together with attendant utilities and sanitary facilities to or
above that level so that any space below that level is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is required as per section 
9-6-4(B)(3) and section
9-6-4(B)(2).
(Ord. No. 03-123, passed 12-15-2003; Ord. No. 20-022, passed 5-18-2020; Ord.
No. 22-056, passed 6-9-2022)
SEC. 9-6-6 LEGAL STATUTES AND PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention ordinance. This chapter in part is adopted due to re-enactment of
some of the provisions of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance enacted June 8,
1978, as amended, and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact
and continue to enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so
that all rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and
may be enforced. The enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action,
suit or proceeding instituted or pending. All provisions of the Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinance of the City of Greenville enacted on June 8, 1978, as
amended, which are not re-enacted herein are repealed.
   (B)   Effect upon outstanding building permits.  Nothing herein contained
shall require any change in the plans, construction, size or designated use of
any development or any part thereof for which a floodplain development permit
has been granted by the Local Floodplain Administrator or his or her authorized
agents, before time of passage of this chapter; provided, however, that when
construction is not begun under such outstanding permit within a period of 60
days subsequent to passage of this chapter or any revision thereto,
construction or use shall be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Severability. If any section, clause, sentence, or phrase of this
chapter is held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, then said holding shall in no way effect the validity of the
remaining portions of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 03-123, passed 12-15-2003; Ord. No. 20-022, passed 5-18-2020)
CHAPTER 7: HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
Section
   
9-7-1   Establishment
   
9-7-2   Definitions
   
9-7-3   Qualification of members; terms; appointments; general duties
   
9-7-4   Meetings; attendance
   
9-7-5   Same; time and date
   
9-7-6   Same; minutes
   
9-7-7   Members; rights and privileges
   
9-7-8   Same; compensation
   
9-7-9   Rules of procedure; principles and standards
   
9-7-10   Receipt of gifts
   
9-7-11   Role of City Council
   
9-7-12   Powers of Preservation Commission
   
9-7-13   Certificate of appropriateness; required
   
9-7-14   Same; requirements for issuance
   
9-7-15   Same; review criteria
   
9-7-16   Minor works
   
9-7-17   Demolition of buildings
   
9-7-18   Certain changes not prohibited
   
9-7-18.1   Solar collectors
   
9-7-19   Ownership of property
   
9-7-20   Publicly owned buildings and structures
   
9-7-21   Public meetings and hearings
   
9-7-22   Enforcement and appeals
   
9-7-23   Penalties for violations
   
9-7-24   Extraterritorial provisions
SEC. 9-7-1 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a Historic Preservation Commission of Greenville
which shall serve jointly as a historic district and a historic landmarks
commission for the city under the authority of the North Carolina General
Statutes Chapter 160D, Article 9, Part 4. The Preservation Commission,
performing the duties of both a Historic Districts Commission and a historian,
shall conform their actions to this chapter and the statutory directive when
acting in either capacity.
(1971 Code, § 9-10-1) (Ord. No. 1925, § 1, passed 12-8-1988; Ord. No. 2186, §
1, passed 5-10-1990; Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-7-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter only, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Alteration. Any change because of construction, repair, maintenance or
otherwise to a building located within a historic district or designated as a
historic landmark.
Building.  Any structure, place or any other construction built for the shelter
or enclosure of persons, animals or chattels, or any part of such structure
when subdivided by division walls or party walls extending to or above the roof
and without openings in the separate walls.
Certificate of appropriateness. A document evidencing approval of the
Commission for work proposed in a historic district or to a historic landmark
by an applicant.
City. The City of Greenville.
Commission or Preservation Commission. The Historic Preservation Commission of
the city.
Commissioners.  The members of the Historic Preservation Commission of the
city.
Construction. The erection of any on-site improvements on any parcel of ground
located within a historic district or on a historic site, whether the site is
presently improved, unimproved or hereinafter becomes unimproved by demolition,
destruction of the improvements located thereon by fire, windstorm or other
casualty.
Demolition. The complete or constructive removal of a building on any site.
Department. The North Carolina Department of Cultural Resources.
Design standards or standards. Criteria that is considered by the Historic
Preservation Commission when considering and deciding the appropriateness of a
proposed change in a historic district or to a historic landmark.
Designation. The creation of a historic district or a historic landmark through
the passage of an ordinance by the City Council.
Exterior architectural features.  Include the architectural style, general
design and general arrangement of the exterior of a building or other
structure, including the color, the kind and texture of the building material,
and the type and style of all windows, doors, light fixtures, signs and other
appurtenant fixtures. In the case of outdoor advertising signs, “exterior
architectural features” shall be construed to mean the style, material, size
and location of all such signs.
Historic district. An area containing buildings, structures or places which
have a character and ambience being of special significance in terms of their
history, prehistory, architecture, or cultural importance and possess integrity
of design, setting, material, feeling and association; and is designated by an
ordinance of the City Council.
Historic landmark.  Any site, landmark, structure, or artifact which is found
to be of special significance in terms of its historical, prehistorical
architectural, or cultural importance and possess integrity of design, setting,
workmanship, material, feeling and association; and is so designated by
ordinance of the City Council.
Ordinary repairs and maintenance.  Work done on a building to prevent it from
deterioration or to replace any part thereof in order to correct any
deterioration, decay or damage to a building or any part thereof in order to
restore same as nearly as practical to its condition prior to such
deterioration, decay or damage.
Overlay zoning districts. A district that is imposed in addition to those of
the underlying district. Developments within overlying zoning districts must
conform to the requirements of both zones or the more restrictive of the two.
Rules of procedures. Procedures for organizing the business of the Historic
Preservation Commission, and the processing of applications for certificate of
appropriateness.
Separate use districts.  A section of the city designated in the Zoning
Ordinance text and delineated on the zoning map, in which requirements for the
use of land and building development standards are prescribed.
(1971 Code, § 9-10-2) (Ord. No. 1925, § 1, passed 12-8-1988; Ord. No. 2186, §
2, passed 5-10-1990; Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-7-3 QUALIFICATION OF MEMBERS; TERMS; APPOINTMENTS; GENERAL DUTIES.
   (A)   Until January 31, 1997, the Commission shall consist of 11 members.
Thereafter the Commission shall consist of ten members. All members shall
reside within the planning and zoning jurisdiction of the city. In addition, a
majority of the members of the Preservation Commission shall have demonstrated
special interest, experience or education in history, architecture, archaeology
or related fields.
   (B)   Commission members duly appointed and currently serving on the
Commission as of the effective date of this chapter may continue to serve for
the remainder of that member’s current term, and the eligibility of any member
for reappointment to a subsequent term shall not be affected. Commission
members shall serve overlapping terms of three years, with appointment of
replacements or reappointment as provided in subsection (C), below.
   (C)   (1)   The terms of office shall be configured as follows:
         (a)   Three members shall be appointed or reappointed for three-year
terms in January 1997.
         (b)   Three members shall be appointed or reappointed for three-year
terms in January 1998.
         (c)   Four members shall be appointed or reappointed for three-year
terms in January 1999.
      (2)   The appointments or reappointments for expiring terms shall occur
every year thereafter for the terms expiring in that year.
   (D)   For purposes of taking action on any matter that the Commission is
required by law or ordinance to act on, a quorum of the Commission shall
consist of five members.
   (E)   The members of the Historic Preservation Commission shall be appointed
by and will serve at the pleasure of the City Council.
   (F)   The Historic Preservation Commission shall select from among its
members a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson who shall be elected annually by the
members.
   (G)   Upon its first formal meeting, and prior to performing any duties
under this chapter or under the authority of the North Carolina General
Statutes, the Historic Preservation Commission shall adopt rules of procedure
governing the Commission’s actions which are not governed by this chapter or
the General Statutes.
(1971 Code, § 9-10-3) (Ord. No. 1925, § 1, passed 12-8-1988; Ord. No. 2186, §
3, passed 5-10-1990; Ord. No. 96-107, § 1, passed 11-14-1996)
SEC. 9-7-4 MEETINGS; ATTENDANCE.
   Any member of the Historic Preservation Commission who misses three
consecutive regularly scheduled meetings or fails to attend 75% of the
regularly schedule meetings in a calendar year shall lose his or her status as
a member of the Commission and shall be replaced by the City Council pursuant
to section
9-7-3 of this chapter. Absence due to sickness, death in the family or other
emergencies of like nature shall be recognized as excused absences, as approved
by the Chairperson, and shall not affect the member’s status on the Commission.
In the event of a long illness or any other such cause for prolonged absence,
the member shall be replaced.
(1971 Code, § 9-10-4) (Ord. No. 1925, § 1, passed 12-8-1988; Ord. No. 2186, §
4, passed 5-10-1990)
SEC. 9-7-5 SAME; TIME AND DATE.
   The Historic Preservation Commission shall establish a meeting time, and
shall meet at least quarterly and more often as it shall determine and require.
(1971 Code, § 9-10-5) (Ord. No. 1925, § 1, passed 12-8-1988)
SEC. 9-7-6 SAME; MINUTES.
   The Commission shall keep permanent minutes of all its meetings, which shall
be a public record. The minutes shall record attendance of its members, its
resolutions, findings, recommendations and actions.
(1971 Code, § 9-10-6) (Ord. No. 1925, § 1, passed 12-8-1988)
SEC. 9-7-7 MEMBERS; RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES.
   All members of the Commission shall have equal rights, privileges and duties
in all matters, whether they reside within the corporate limits of the city or
in the extraterritorial jurisdiction of Greenville.
(1971 Code, § 9-10-7) (Ord. No. 1925, § 1, passed 12-8-1988)
SEC. 9-7-8 SAME; COMPENSATION.
   All members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, except that
they may be reimbursed for actual expenses incident to the performance of their
duties within the limits of any fund available to the Commission.
(1971 Code, § 9-10-8) (Ord. No. 1925, § 1, passed 12-8-1988)
SEC. 9-7-9 RULES OF PROCEDURE; PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   The Commission shall adopt rules of procedure for the conduct of its
business; and principles and guidelines for new construction, alterations,
additions, moving and demolition of designated historic properties and
properties in historic districts.
   (B)   A member of the Commission shall not participate in or vote on any
quasi-judicial matter in a manner that would violate affected persons'
constitutional rights to an impartial decision maker. Impermissible conflicts
include, but are not limited to. a member having a fixed opinion prior to
hearing the matter than is not susceptible to change: undisclosed ex parte
communications: a close familial, business, or other associational relationship
with an affected person: or a financial interest in the outcome of the matter.
If an objection is raised to a member's participation and that member does not
recuse himself or herself, the remaining members shall by majority vote rule on
the objection (G.S. 160D-109(d)).
(1971 Code, § 9-10-9) (Ord. No. 1925, § 1, passed 12-8-1988; Ord. No. 21-032, §
1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-7-10 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   The City Council shall have the right to accept gifts and donations in the
name of the city for historic preservation purposes.
(1971 Code, § 9-10-10) (Ord. No. 1925, § 1, passed 12-8-1988)
SEC. 9-7-11 ROLE OF CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   The designation of a historic landmark or district shall be effective
through an ordinance passed by the City Council.
   (B)   Upon compliance with the North Carolina General Statutes, the City
Council may adopt and, from time to time, amend or repeal an ordinance
designating one or more properties or districts.
   (C)   No landmark or district shall be recommended for designation unless it
is deemed to be of special significance in terms of its history, prehistory,
architecture and/or cultural importance. The landmark or district must lie
within the planning and zoning jurisdiction of the city.
(1971 Code, § 9-10-14) (Ord. No. 1925, § 1, passed 12-8-1988; Ord. No. 2186, §
6, passed 5-10-1990)
SEC. 9-7-12 POWERS OF PRESERVATION COMMISSION.
   The Commission shall be authorized within the planning and zoning
jurisdiction of the city to:
   (A)   Undertake an inventory of landmarks of historical, prehistorical,
architectural, and/or cultural significance;
   (B)   Recommend to the City Council areas to be designated by ordinance as a
“historic district;” and individual structures, buildings, sites, areas, or
objects to be designated by ordinance as a “historic landmark;”
   (C)   Recommend to the City Council that the city acquire, by any lawful
means, the fee or any lesser included interest, including options to purchase,
of landmarks within designated districts or of any such designated landmarks,
to hold, manage, preserve, restore and improve the same, and to exchange or
dispose of the landmark by public or private sale, lease or otherwise, subject
to covenants or other legally binding restrictions which will secure
appropriate rights of public access and promote the preservation of the
landmark;
   (D)   Restore, preserve and operate historic landmarks;
   (E)   Recommend to the City Council that designation of any area as a
historic district or part thereof, or designation of any building, structure,
site, area or object as a historic landmark, be revoked or removed;
   (F)   Conduct an educational program with respect to historic landmarks and
districts within its jurisdiction;
   (G)   Cooperate with the federal, state and local governments in pursuance
of the purposes of historic preservation, and to offer or request assistance,
guidance or advice concerning matters under its purview or of mutual interest;
   (H)   Enter, solely in performance of its official duties and only at
reasonable times, upon private lands, following written notification, for
examination or survey thereof. However, no member, employee or agent of the
Commission may enter any private building or structure without the express
consent of the owner or occupant thereof;
   (I)   Prepare and recommend the official adoption of a preservation element
as part of the city’s Comprehensive Plan;
   (J)   Review and act upon proposals for alterations, demolitions or new
construction within historic districts, or for the alteration or demolition of
designated properties;
   (K)   Recommend to City Council the negotiations with the owner of a
building, structure, site, area or object for its acquisition or its
preservation, when such action is reasonably necessary or appropriate;
   (L)   Propose changes to this chapter or any related ordinance and to
propose new ordinances or laws relating to historic landmark districts, or to
the total programs for the development of the historical resources of the city
and its environs;
   (M)   Give advice to property owners concerning the treatment of the
historical and visual characteristics of their properties such as color
schemes, garden and landscape features, and minor decorative elements;
   (N)   Take steps, during the period of postponement of demolition or
alteration of any historic landmark, to ascertain what the City Council can or
may do to preserve such property, including consultation with private civic
groups, interested private citizens and other public boards or agencies and
including investigation of potential acquisition by the City Council when the
preservation of a given historic landmark is clearly in the interest of the
general welfare of the community and the property is of certain historic and
architectural significance;
   (O)   Establish procedures under which the Director of Planning and
Development Services, or his or her designee, may approve minor works In
conformance with adopted standards on behalf of the Commission. No application
shall be denied without first being considered by the Commission;
   (P)   Conduct evidentiary hearings on applications for certificate of
appropriateness where the Commission deems that such a hearing is necessary;
   (Q)   Assist the city staff in obtaining the services of private consultants
to aid in carrying out programs of research or analysis;
   (R)   Publish information about, or otherwise inform the public of any
matters pertinent to its purview, duties, organization, procedures,
responsibilities, functions or requirements as its budget may allow; and
   (S)   Report violations of this chapter or related ordinances with respect
to historic properties to the Chief Building Inspector.
   (T)   Post on the site that is the subject of an evidentiary hearing, as
authorized under G.S. Chapter 160D, Article 9, Part 4 or this chapter, or on an
adjacent street or highway right-of-way of the site that is the subject of a
public hearing under G.S. Chapter 160D, Article 9, Part 4 or this chapter, a
notice of evidentiary hearing or a notice of the issuance of a certificate of
appropriateness in accordance with the Historic Preservation Commission,
Greenville, North Carolina Rules of Procedure.
(1971 Code, § 9-10-15) (Ord. No. 1925, § 1, passed 12-8-1988; Ord. No. 2186, §
7, passed 5-10-1990; Ord. No. 06-75, § 2, passed 8-10-2006; Ord. No. 19-014, §
1, passed 2-14-2019; Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019; Ord. No. 21-032, § 1,
passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-7-13 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS; REQUIRED.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   After the designation of a historic landmark or a historic
district, no exterior portion of any building or other structure (including
masonry walls, fences, light fixtures, steps and pavement, or other appurtenant
features) nor above-ground utility structure nor any type of outdoor
advertising sign shall be erected, altered, restored, moved or demolished on
the designated landmark or district until after an application for a
certificate of appropriateness has been submitted to and approved by the
Historic Preservation Commission. The Commission shall have no jurisdiction
over the interior arrangement, except as provided in subsection (B) below, and
shall take no action except to prevent the construction, reconstruction,
alteration, restoration, moving or demolition of buildings, structures,
appurtenant fixtures, outdoor advertising signs or other significant features
which would be incongruous with the special character of the historic landmark
or historic district.
      (2)   The certificate of appropriateness shall be issued prior to the
issuance of a building or other permit, and shall be required whether or not a
building or other permit is required.
      (3)   The discontinuance of work or the lack of progress toward achieving
compliance with a certificate of appropriateness for a period of six months
shall render the certificate null and void, and application shall be made for a
new certificate before work can recommence.
      (4)   The issuance of a certificate of appropriateness does not run with
the land and cannot be conveyed in the sale of property.
   (B)   Interiors. The Commission may have jurisdiction over the interior, but
shall be limited to specific interior features of architectural, artistic or
historical significance in publicly owned historic landmarks, and in privately
owned historic landmarks for which consent for interior review has been given
by the owner. The consent of an owner for interior review shall bind future
owners and/or successors in title, provided such consent has been filed in the
office of the Register of Deeds of the county and indexed according to the name
of the owner of the landmark in the grantee and grantor indexes. The ordinance
designating such interior shall specify the interior features to be covered and
the nature of the Commission’s jurisdiction over the interior.
   (C)   Public utilities. The city and all public utility companies shall be
required to obtain a certificate of appropriateness prior to initiating work in
a historic district for any changes in the character of street paving,
sidewalks, trees, utility installations, lighting, walls, fences, structures
and buildings on property, easements or streets owned or franchised by the city
or public utility companies.
(1971 Code, § 9-10-17) (Ord. No. 1925, § 1, passed 12-8-1988; Ord. No. 2186, §
9, passed 5-10-1990)
SEC. 9-7-14 SAME; REQUIREMENTS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Application submitted to appropriate administrative official. An
application for a certificate of appropriateness shall be obtained from and,
when completed, filed with the Director of Planning and Development Services or
designee in the Community Development Department.
   (B)   Contents of application.
      (1)   The application shall, in accordance with the Historic Preservation
Commission’s rules of procedure, contain data that is reasonably necessary to
determine the nature of the application. An application for a certificate of
appropriateness shall not be considered complete until all required data has
been submitted.
      (2)   Nothing shall prevent the applicant from filing with the
application additional relevant information bearing on the application.
   (C)   Notification of affected property owners. Prior to any action taken on
a certificate of appropriateness, the owners of any landmark likely to be
materially affected by the application shall be notified in writing, and the
applicant and such owners shall be given an opportunity to be heard.
   (D)   Evidentiary hearing. When an application is presented to the Historic
Preservation Commission an evidentiary hearing may be held when deemed
necessary.
    (E)   Action on an application.
      (1)   The action on an application shall be approval, approval with
modifications, or denial.
      (2)   Prior to any action on an application, the review criteria in
section
9-7-15 and the Commission’s design standards shall be used to make findings of
fact indicating the extent to which the application is or is not congruous with
the historic aspects of the designated landmark or district.
      (3)   All applications for certificates of appropriateness shall be
reviewed and acted upon within a reasonable time as defined by the rules of
procedure. As part of this review procedure, the Commission may view the
premises and seek advice from the Department of Cultural Resources or other
such expert advice as it may deem necessary under the circumstances.
   (F)   Appeal. 
      (1)   An appeal may be taken to the Board of Adjustment from the
Commission’s action in granting or denying any certificate and shall be in the
nature of certiorari as provided by G.S. 160D-1402.
      (2)   Any appeal from the Board of Adjustment’s decision in any such case
shall be heard by the Superior Court of Pitt County as provided by applicable
laws G.S. 160D-1402.
   (G)   Submission of new application. If a certificate of appropriateness is
not issued, a new application affecting the same landmark may be submitted only
if substantial change is made in plans for the proposed construction,
reconstruction, alteration, restoration or moving.
(1971 Code, § 9-10-18) (Ord. No. 1925, § 1, passed 12-8-1988; Ord. No. 2186, §
10, passed 5-10-1990; Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-2019; Ord. No. 21-032, § 1,
passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-7-15 SAME; REVIEW CRITERIA.
   (A)   Intent. 
      (1)   It is the intent of these criteria to ensure, insofar as possible,
that changes to a designated landmark in a historic district shall be in
harmony with the reasons for designation.
      (2)   When granting a certificate of appropriateness, the Commission
shall take into account the historic or architectural significance of the
structure under consideration and the exterior form and appearance of any
proposed additions or modifications to that structure as well as the effect of
such change or additions upon other structures in the vicinity. In a historic
district it is not the intention of these standards to require the
reconstruction or restoration of individual or original buildings or prohibit
the demolition or removal of same or to impose architectural styles from
particular historic periods. In considering new construction in a historic
district, the Commission may encourage contemporary design which is harmonious
with the character of the district.
   (B)   Form and appearance.
      (1)   The Historic Preservation Commission shall adopt detailed standards
which will take into account the historic and architectural significance and
visual and historic elements for each designated historic district.
      (2)   The following criteria shall be considered, when relevant, along
with other appropriate standards including “The Secretary of the Interior’s
Standards for Rehabilitating Historic Buildings,” in reviewing applications for
a certificate of appropriateness:
         (a)   Lot coverage, defined as the percentage of lot area covered by
primary structures;
         (b)   Setback, defined as the distance from the lot lines to the
building(s);
         (c)   Building height;
         (d)   Spacing of buildings, defined as the distance between adjacent
buildings;
         (e)   Building materials;
         (f)   Proportion, shape, positioning, location, pattern and sizes of
any elements of fenestration;
         (g)   Surface textures;
         (h)   Roof shapes, forms and materials;
         (i)   Use of local or regional architectural traditions;
         (j)   General form and proportions of buildings and structures, and
relationship of any additions to the main structure;
          (k)   Expression of architectural detailing, such as lintels,
cornices, brick bond, and foundation materials;
         (l)   Orientation of the building to the street;
         (m)   Scale, determined by the size of the units of construction and
architectural details in relation to the human scale and also by the
relationship of the building mass to adjoining open space and nearby buildings
and structures;
         (n)   Proportion of width to height of the total building facade;
         (o)   Archaeological sites and resources association with standing
structures;
         (p)   Major landscaping efforts that would impact known archaeological
sites;
         (q)   Appurtenant fixtures and other features, such as lighting;
         (r)   Structural condition and soundness;
         (s)   Walls, physical ingredients, such as brick, stone or wood walls,
wrought iron fences, evergreen landscape masses, building facades, or
combinations of these;
         (t)   Maintenance of pedestrian scale and orientation as well as
provision for safe pedestrian movement; and
         (u)   Other exterior construction, including surfaced areas and signs.
   (C)   Conditions to certain approvals. In the event that the Historic
Preservation Commission, in reviewing an owner’s proposed plans, shall find
that a building or structure for which a building permit is required is to be
an authentic restoration or reconstruction of a building or structure which
existed at the same location but does not meet zoning requirements, the
building or structure may be authorized to be restored or reconstructed at the
same location where the original building or structure was located, provided
the Board of Adjustment authorizes the restoration or reconstruction and no use
other than that permitted in the district in which it is located is made of the
property. Such conditions as may be set by the Historic Preservation Commission
and the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall be conditions for the issuance of the
building permit.
(1971 Code, § 9-10-19) (Ord. No. 1925, § 1, passed 12-8-1988; Ord. No. 21-032,
§ 1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-7-16 MINOR WORKS.
   A certificate of appropriateness application, when determined to involve a
minor work, may be reviewed and approved by an administrative official
according to review criteria and standards. Minor works will be specified in
the design standards.
(1971 Code, § 9-10-20) (Ord. No. 1925, § 1, passed 12-8-1988)
SEC. 9-7-17 DEMOLITION OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Generally. An application for a certificate of appropriateness
authorizing the relocation, demolition or destruction of a designated landmark
or a building, structure or site within a designated district may not be
denied. However, the effective date of such certificate may be delayed for a
period of up to 365 days from the date of approval. The maximum period of delay
authorized by this section shall be reduced by the Historic Preservation
Commission where it finds that the owner would suffer extreme hardship or be
permanently deprived of all beneficial use of or return from the property by
virtue of the delay. During this period the Historic Preservation Commission
shall negotiate with the owner and with any other parties in an effort to find
a means of preserving the building or site. If the Historic Preservation
Commission finds that a building or site within a district has no special
significance or value toward maintaining the character of the district, it
shall waive all or part of the period and authorize earlier demolition, or
removal.
   (B)   Delay of demolition of properties or properties within district in
process of being designated. If the Historic Preservation Commission has voted
to recommend designation of a property as a landmark or designation of an area
as a district, and final designation has not been made by the City Council, the
demolition or destruction of any building, site or structure located on the
property of the proposed landmark or in the proposed district may be delayed by
the Historic Preservation Commission for a period of up to 180 days or until
the City Council takes final action on the designation, whichever occurs first.
   (C)   Antidemolition by neglect ordinance. The City Council may enact an
ordinance to prevent the demolition of any designated landmark or any building,
structure or site within a designated district due to neglect. Such ordinance
shall provide appropriate safeguards to protect property owners from undue
economic hardship.
   (D)   Denial of demolition of statewide significant landmarks. An
application for a certificate of appropriateness authorizing the demolition or
destruction or a building, structure or site determined by the State Historic
Preservation Officer as having statewide significance, as defined in the
criteria of the National Register of Historic Places, may be denied except
where the Commission finds that the owner would suffer extreme hardship or be
permanently deprived of all beneficial use or return by virtue of the denial.
(1971 Code, § 9-10-20.1) (Ord. No. 2186, § 11, passed 5-10-1990; Ord. No. 2454,
§ 1, passed 5-14-1992)
SEC. 9-7-18 CERTAIN CHANGES NOT PROHIBITED.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the ordinary
maintenance or repair of any exterior architectural feature of a historic
landmark or in a historic district which does not involve a change in design,
materials or outer appearance thereof, nor to prevent the construction,
reconstruction, alteration, restoration or demolition of such feature which the
Building Inspector or similar official shall certify is required by the public
safety because of an unsafe or dangerous condition. Nothing herein shall be
construed to prevent a property owner from making the use of his or her
property not prohibited by other statutes, ordinances or regulations. Also,
nothing herein shall prevent the maintenance or, in the event of an emergency,
the immediate restoration of any existing above-ground utility structure
without the approval of the Preservation Commission.
(1971 Code, § 9-10-21) (Ord. No. 1925, § 1, passed 12-8-1988; Ord. No. 2186, §
12, passed 5-10-1990)
SEC 9-7-18.1 SOLAR COLLECTORS.
   (A)   Except as provided under subsection (B), the Commission shall not
prohibit the installation of a solar collector that gathers solar radiation as
a substitute for traditional energy for water heating, active space heating and
cooling, passive heating, or generating electricity for a residential property,
and no person shall be denied permission to install a solar collector that
gathers solar radiation as a substitute for traditional energy for water
heating, active space heating and cooling, passive heating, or generating
electricity for a residential property. As used in this section, the term
residential property means property where the predominant use is for
residential purposes.
   (B)   No solar collector described in subsection (A) shall be allowed that
is visible by a person on the ground:
      (1)   On the façade of a structure that faces areas open to common or
public access;
      (2)   On a roof surface that slopes downward toward the same areas open
to common or public access that the façade of the structure faces; or
      (3)   Within the area set off by a line running across the façade of the
structure extending to the property boundaries on either side of the façade,
and those areas of common or public access faced by the structure.
   (C)   Additional requirements, standards and restrictions concerning the
installation and use of a solar collector shall be set forth in the “Historic
Preservation Commission’s Design Standards”.
(Ord. No. 10-50, § 1, 6-10-2010; Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-7-19 OWNERSHIP OF PROPERTY.
   All lands, buildings, structures, sites, areas or objects shall be acquired
in the name of the city unless otherwise provided by the City Council. So long
as owned by the city, historic landmarks may be maintained by or under the
supervision and control of the city.
(1971 Code, § 9-10-22) (Ord. No. 1925, § 1, passed 12-8-1988)
SEC. 9-7-20 PUBLICLY OWNED BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   All provisions of this chapter and the General Statutes are hereby made
applicable to the construction, use, alteration, moving and demolition by the
state, its political subdivisions, agencies and instrumentalities, provided
however, they shall not apply to the interior of buildings or structures owned
by the state. The current edition of the Secretary of the Interior’s standards
for rehabilitation and guidelines for rehabilitating historic buildings shall
be the sole guidelines used in reviewing applications of the state for
certificate of appropriateness. The State and its agencies may appeal to the
North Carolina Historical Commission or any successor agency assuming its
responsibilities under G.S. 121-12(a) from any decision of the Historic
Preservation Commission. The current edition of the Secretary of the Interior's
Standards for Rehabilitation and Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic
Buildings shall be the sole principles and guidelines used in reviewing
applications of the State for certificates of appropriateness. The decision of
the North Carolina Historical Commission is final and binding upon both the
State and the historic preservation commission.
(1971 Code, § 9-10-23) (Ord. No. 1925, § 1, passed 12-8-1988; Ord. No. 2186, §
13, passed 5-10-1990 ; Ord. No. 21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-7-21 PUBLIC MEETINGS AND HEARINGS.
   All meetings and hearings of the Commission shall be in accordance with the
rules of procedure and the North Carolina Open Meeting Law.
(1971 Code, § 9-10-24) (Ord. No. 1925, § 1, passed 12-8-1988; Ord. No. 2186, §
14, passed 5-10-1990)
SEC. 9-7-22 ENFORCEMENT AND APPEALS.
   The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall be responsible for the enforcement of
the chapter. The zoning enforcement officer may provide for the enforcement of
this chapter by means of withholding permits and/or issuance of civil citation
(s) in accordance with
Title 9, Chapter 4, Article U, section
9-4-356  of the City Code. He or she may provide for enforcement by instituting
injunction, mandamus or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent
unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion,
moving, maintenance or use; to correct or abate the violation; or to prevent
the occupancy of the building, structure or land. If a decision of the Zoning
Enforcement Officer is questioned, the aggrieved person may appeal the decision
to the Board of Adjustment in accordance with applicable procedure and law.
(1971 Code, § 9-10-25) (Ord. No. 99-18, § 1, passed 2-11-1999)
SEC. 9-7-23 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS.
   Any violation of this chapter shall be considered a violation of the zoning
regulations and shall subject the offender to a civil penalty and other
appropriate equitable action in accordance with
Title 9, Chapter 4, Article U, section
9-4-356  of the City Code.
(1971 Code, § 9-10-26) (Ord. No. 99-18, § 2, passed 2-11-1999)
SEC. 9-7-24 EXTRATERRITORIAL PROVISIONS.
The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable only within the planning and
zoning jurisdiction of the city.
(1971 Code, § 9-10-27) (Ord. No. 1925, § 1, passed 12-8-1988)
CHAPTER 8: SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL
Section
   
9-8-1   Title
   
9-8-2   Authority and purposes
   
9-8-3   Definitions
   
9-8-4   Exclusions
   
9-8-5   General requirements
   
9-8-6   Basic control objectives
   
9-8-7   Mandatory standards for land-disturbing activity
   
9-8-8   Design and performance standards
   
9-8-9   Stormwater outlet protection
   
9-8-10   Borrow and waste areas
   
9-8-11   Access and haul roads
   
9-8-12   Operations in lakes or natural watercourses
   
9-8-13   Responsibility for maintenance
   
9-8-14   Additional measures
   
9-8-15   (Reserved)
   
9-8-16   Permits
   
9-8-17   Erosion and sedimentation control plans
   
9-8-18   Appeals
   
9-8-19   Inspections and investigations
   
9-8-20   Penalties
   
9-8-21   Injunctive relief
   
9-8-22   Restoration of areas affected by failure to comply
   
9-8-23   Severability
SEC. 9-8-1 TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as “The City of Greenville Soil Erosion and
Sedimentation Control Ordinance” or “this chapter.”
(Ord. No. 98-7, passed 1-8-1998)
SEC. 9-8-2 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSES.
   This chapter is adopted under G.S. Chapter 113A; Part 6 Article 21 of
Chapter 143 and Article 7, 9, and 11 of Chapter 160D for the purpose of:
   (A)   Promoting the public health, safety, and general welfare; and
   (B)   Regulating certain land-disturbing activity to control accelerated
erosion and sedimentation in order to prevent the pollution of water and other
damage to lakes, watercourses, and other public and private property by
sedimentation within the city limits of the City of Greenville and the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city; and
   (C)   Establishing procedures through which these purposes can be fulfilled.
(Ord. No. 98-7, passed 1-8-1998; Ord. No. 06-50, § 1, passed 6-8-2006; Ord. No.
21-032, § 1, passed 6-21-2021)
SEC. 9-8-3 DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Accelerated erosion. Any increase over the rate of natural erosion as a result
of land-disturbing activities.
Act. The North Carolina Sedimentation Pollution Control Act of 1973, being G.S.
113A-50 et seq., and all rules and orders adopted pursuant to it.
Active construction. Activities which contribute directly to the building of
facilities including land-disturbing activities for roads, parking lots,
footings and the like.
Adequate erosion and control measure, structure or device. One which controls
the soil material within the land area under responsible control of the person
conducting the land-disturbing activity.
Affiliate. A person who directly, or indirectly through one or more
intermediaries’ control, is controlled by or is under common control of another
person.
Being conducted. A land-disturbing activity has been initiated and permanent
stabilization of the site has not been completed.
Borrow.  Fill material which is required for on-site construction and is
obtained from other locations.
Buffer zone. The strip of land adjacent to a lake or natural watercourse.
City. City of Greenville.
Coastal counties. The following counties: Beaufort, Bertie, Brunswick, Camden,
Carteret, Chowan, Craven, Currituck, Care, Gates, Hertford, Hyde, New Hanover,
Onslow, Pamlico, Pasqotank, Pender, Tyrrell and Washington.
Commission. The North Carolina Sedimentation Control Commission.
Completion of construction or development. No further land-disturbing activity
is required on a phase of a project except that which is necessary for
establishing a permanent ground cover.
Denuded. The removal of ground cover from, on or above the soil surface.
Department. The North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality.
Director. The Director of the Division of Energy, Mineral, and Land Resources
of the Department of Environmental Quality.
Discharge point.  That point at which runoff leaves a tract of land.
Drainage easement. A minimum strip of land reserved for conveyance of
stormwater generally located along the rear or side lot lines but may cross
lots at such points that will not pose a hazard to persons or property.
Energy dissipator. Any structure or a shaped channel section with mechanical
armoring placed at the outlet of pipes or conduits to receive and break down
the energy from high velocity flow.
Erosion. The wearing away of the land surface by the action of the wind, water,
gravity or any combination thereof.
Extraterritorial jurisdiction. That territory surrounding the corporate limits
of the city over which the city exercises its planning and zoning authorities
as established by action of the City Council on June 26, 1972 and subsequently
amended.
Ground cover.  Any natural vegetative growth or other material which renders
the soil surface stable against accelerated erosion.
High quality water (HQW) zones. For the Coastal Counties, areas within 575 feet
of high quality waters; and for the remainder of the state, areas within one
mile and draining to HQW's.
High quality waters. Those classified as such in 15A NCAC 02B.0224, which is
incorporated herein by reference to include further amendments and additions.
Lake or natural watercourse. Any stream, river, brook, swamp, sound, bay,
creek, run, branch, canal, waterway, estuary and any reservoir, lake or pond,
natural or impounded, in which sediment may be moved or carried in suspension
and which could be damaged by accumulation of sediment.
Land-disturbing activity. Any use of the land by any person in residential,
industrial, educational, institutional or commercial development, highway and
road construction and maintenance that results in a change in the natural cover
or topography and that may cause or contribute to sedimentation.
Land-disturbing permit. The approval document allowing land-disturbing
activities to be initiated. A project may be developed in phases with separate
permits for each phase.
Local government.  Any county, incorporated village, town or city, or any
combination of counties, incorporated villages, towns and cities, acting
through a joint program pursuant to the provisions of the Act.
Natural erosion. Wearing away of the earth’s surface by water, wind or other
natural agents under natural environmental conditions undisturbed by mankind.
Parent. An affiliate that directly, or indirectly through one or more
intermediaries, controls another person.
Person. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public
or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private
institution, utility, cooperative, interstate body or other legal entity.
Person conducting land-disturbing activity.  Any person who may be held
responsible for a violation unless expressly provided otherwise by this
chapter, the Act, or any order adopted pursuant to this chapter or the Act.
Person responsible for the violation. As used in this chapter and G.S. 113A-64,
means:
      (1)   The developer or other person who has or holds himself or herself
out as having financial or operational control over the land-disturbing
activity; or
       (2)   The landowner or person in possession or control of the land when
he or she has directly or indirectly allowed the land-disturbing activity or
has benefitted from it, or he or she has failed to comply with any provision of
this chapter, the Act or any order adopted pursuant to this chapter or the Act
as imposes a duty upon him or her.
Phase of grading. One of two types of grading, rough or fine.
Plan. Erosion and Sedimentation Control Plan.
Protective cover. Natural or artificial ground cover of grass, trees, shrubs or
mulch sufficient to reduce erosion potential.
Receiving watercourse. A lake, natural watercourse, or other natural or man-
made area into which stormwater runoff flows from a land-disturbing activity.
Sediment. Solid particulate matter, both mineral and organic, that has been or
is being transported by water, air, gravity or ice from its site of origin.
Sedimentation. The process by which sediment resulting from accelerated erosion
has been or is being transported off the site of the land-disturbing activity
or into a lake or natural watercourse.
Siltation. Sediment resulting from accelerated erosion which is settlable or
removable by properly designed, constricted and maintained control measures;
and which has been transported from its point of origin within the site of a
land- disturbing activity; and which has been deposited or is in suspension in
water.
Special flood hazard area. The land located within the floodplain subject to a
1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year and subject to the
conditions of Title 9, Chapter 6 of the City Code, Flood Damage Prevention.
Storm drainage facilities. The system of inlets, conduits, channels, ditches
and appurtenances which serve to collect and convey stormwater through and from
a given drainage area.
Stormwater runoff.  The direct runoff of water resulting from precipitation in
any form.
Ten-year storm. The surface runoff resulting from a rainfall of an intensity
expected to be equaled or exceeded, on the average, once in ten years, and of a
duration which will produce the maximum peak rate of runoff, for the watershed
of interest under average antecedent wetness conditions.
Tract. All contiguous land and bodies of water being disturbed or to be
disturbed as a unit, regardless of ownership.
Twenty-five-year storm. The surface runoff resulting from a rainfall of an
intensity expected to be equaled or exceeded, on the average, once in 25 years,
and of a duration which will produce the maximum peak rate of runoff, from the
watershed of interest under average antecedent wetness conditions.
Uncovered.  The removal of ground cover from, on or above the soil surface.
Undertaken.  The initiating of any activity or phase of activity which results
or will result in a change in the ground cover or topography of a tract of
land.
Velocity. The average speed of flow through the cross-section of the main
channel at the peak flow of the storm of interest. The cross-section of the
main channel shall be that area defined by the geometry of the channel plus the
area of flow below the flood height defined by vertical lines at the main
channel banks. Overload flows are not to be included for the purpose of
computing “velocity” of flow.
Wastes. Surplus materials resulting from on-site construction and disposed of
at other locations.
Working days. Days exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, state holidays, and federal
holidays during which weather conditions or soil conditions permit land-
disturbing activity to be undertaken.
(Ord. No. 98-7, passed 1-8-1998; Ord. No. 99-119, § 1, passed 9-9-1999; Ord.
No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 9-8-4 EXCLUSIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to the following land-disturbing activities:
   (A)   Activities, including the breeding and grazing of livestock,
undertaken on agricultural land for the production of plants and animals useful
to mankind, including but not limited to:
      (1)   Forages and sod crops, grains and feed crops, tobacco, cotton and
peanuts;
      (2)   Dairy animals and dairy products;
      (3)   Poultry and poultry products;
      (4)   Livestock, including beef cattle, llamas, sheep, swine, horses,
ponies, mules and goats;
      (5)   Bees and apiary products;
      (6)   Fur-producing animals; and
      (7)   Mulch, ornamental plants, and other horticultural products. For
purposes of this section, "mulch" means substances composed primarily of plant
remains or mixtures of such substances.
   (B)   Activities undertaken on forest land for the production and harvesting
of timber and timber products and which are conducted in accordance with best
management practices set out in Forest Practice Guidelines Related to Water
Quality as adopted by the North Carolina Department of Agriculture and Consumer
Services. If land-disturbing activity undertaken on forest land for the
production and harvesting of timber and timber products is not conducted in
accordance with Forest Practice Guidelines Related to Water Quality, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply to such activity and any related land-
disturbing activity on the tract.
   (C)   Activities for which a permit is required under the Mining Act of
1971, being G.S. Chapter 74, Article 7 of the General Statutes;
   (D)   Land-disturbing activity over which the state has exclusive regulatory
jurisdiction as provided in G.S. 113A-56(a); and
   (E)   For the duration of an emergency, activities essential to protect
human life.
   (F)   Activities undertaken to restore the wetland functions of converted
wetlands to provide compensatory mitigation to offset impacts permitted under
Section 404 of the Clean Water Act.
   (G)   Activities undertaken pursuant to Natural Resources Conservation
Service standards to restore the wetlands functions of converted wetlands as
defined in Title 7 Code of Federal Regulations § 12.2
(Ord. No. 98-7, passed 1-8-1998; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 9-8-5 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Plan and permit required.  No person shall initiate any land-
disturbing activity which uncovers more than one acre without having an erosion
control plan and land-disturbing permit approved by the city. Additionally, no
person shall initiate any land-disturbing activity greater than 5,000 square
feet without having a land-disturbing permit approved by the city. Furthermore,
no person shall initiate land-disturbing activity of any size within the
special flood hazard area without first obtaining a land-disturbing permit and
an approved sedimentation and erosion control plan meeting the requirements of
this chapter and Chapter 6 entitled “Flood Damage Prevention.”
(Ord. No. 99-119, §§ 2-6, passed 9-9-1999)
   (B)   Protection of property. Persons conducting land-disturbing activity
shall take all reasonable measures to protect all public and private property
from damage caused by that activity.
   (C)   More restrictive rules shall apply. Whenever conflicts exist between
federal, state or local laws, ordinances or rules, the more restrictive
provision shall apply.
   (D)   All measures shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the
NC Erosion and Sediment Control Planning and Design Manual, as amended.
(Ord. No. 98-7, passed 1-8-1998 ; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 9-8-6 BASIC CONTROL OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   An erosion and sedimentation control plan may be disapproved pursuant
to section
9-8-17 of this chapter if the plan fails to address the following control
objectives:
      (1)   Identify critical areas. On-site areas which are subject to severe
erosion, and off-site areas which are especially vulnerable to damage from
erosion and/or sedimentation, are to be identified and receive special
attention;
      (2)   Limit time of exposure. All land-disturbing activity is to be
planned and conducted to limit exposure to the shortest feasible time specified
in G.S. 113A-57 or this chapter;
      (3)   Limit exposed areas. All land-disturbing activity is to be planned
and conducted to minimize the size of the area to be exposed at any one time;
      (4)   Control surface water. Surface water runoff originating upgrade of
exposed areas should be controlled to reduce erosion and sediment loss during
the period of exposure;
      (5)   Control sedimentation. All land-disturbing activity is to be
planned and conducted so as to prevent off-site sedimentation damage; and
      (6)   Manage stormwater runoff. Plans shall be designed so that any
increase in velocity of stormwater runoff resulting from a land-disturbing
activity will not result in accelerated erosion of the receiving stormwater
conveyance or at the point of discharge. Plans shall include measures to
prevent accelerated erosion within the project boundary and at the point of
discharge.
   (B)   When deemed necessary by the approving authority, a preconstruction
conference may be required and noted on the approved plan.
(Ord. No. 98-7, passed 1-8-1998; Ord. No. 00-155, §§ 1, 2, passed 12-14-2000;
Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 9-8-7 MANDATORY STANDARDS FOR LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY.
   No land-disturbing activity subject to the control of this chapter shall be
undertaken except in accordance with the following mandatory standards:
   (A)   Buffer zone.
      (1)   No land-disturbing activity during periods of construction or
improvement to land shall be permitted in proximity to a lake or natural
watercourse unless a buffer zone is provided along the margin of the
watercourse of sufficient width to confine visible siltation within the 25% of
the buffer zone nearest the land- disturbing activity, provided that this
subsection shall not apply to a land-disturbing activity in connection with the
construction of facilities to be located on, over or under a lake or natural
watercourse.
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided, the width of a buffer zone is measured
from the edge of the water to the nearest edge of the disturbed area, with the
25% of the strip nearer the land-disturbing activity containing natural or
artificial means of confining visible siltation.
   (B)   Graded slopes and fills. The angle for graded slopes and fills shall
be no greater than the angle which can be retained by vegetative cover or other
adequate erosion control devices or structures. In any event, slopes left
exposed will, within 21 calendar days of completion of any phase of grading, be
planted or otherwise provided with ground cover, devices or structures
sufficient to restrain erosion.
(Ord. No. 99-119, § 8, passed 9-9-1999; Ord. No. 11-018, § 1, passed 4-11-2011)
   (C)   Fill Material. Materials being used as fill shall be consistent with
those described in 15A NCAC 13B.0562 unless the site is permitted by the
Department's Division of Waste Management to operate as a landfill. Not all
materials described in Section .0562 may be suitable to meet geotechnical
considerations of the fill activity and should be evaluated accordingly.
   (D)   Ground cover. Whenever land-disturbing activity is undertaken on a
tract in excess of 5,000 square feet, the person conducting the land-disturbing
activity shall install such sedimentation and erosion control devices and
practices as are sufficient to retain the sediment generated by the land-
disturbing activity within the boundaries of the tract during construction upon
and development of the tract, and shall plant or otherwise provide a permanent
ground cover sufficient to restrain erosion after completion of construction or
development. Except as provided in § 9-8-8(B)(5), provisions for a permanent
ground cover sufficient to restrain erosion must be accomplished within 90
calendar days following completion of construction or development.
(Ord. No. 99-119, § 10, passed 9-9-1999; Ord. No. 00-155, §§ 3, 4, passed 12-
14-2000; Ord. No. 06-50, § 2, passed 6-8-2006)
   (E)   Prior plan approval. No person shall initiate any land-disturbing
activity on a tract if more than one acre is to be uncovered unless, 30 or more
days prior to initiating the activity, an erosion and sedimentation control
plan for such activity is filed with and approved by the city.
(Ord. No. 98-7, passed 1-8-1998; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 9-8-8 DESIGN AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Except as provided in subsection (B)(2) of this section, erosion and
sedimentation control measures, structures and devices shall be so planned,
designed and constructed as to provide protection from the calculated maximum
peak rate of runoff from the ten-year storm. Runoff rates shall be calculated
using the procedures in the USDA, Natural Resources Conservation Service’s
National Engineering Field Handbook, or other acceptable calculation
procedures.
   (B)   In high quality water (HQW) zones the following design standards shall
apply:
      (1)   Uncovered areas in HQW zones shall be limited at any time to a
maximum total area within the boundaries of the tract of 20 acres. Only the
portion of the land-disturbing activity within a HQW zone shall be governed by
this section. Larger areas may be uncovered within the boundaries of the tract
with the written approval of the Director.
      (2)   Erosion and sedimentation control measures, structures and devices
within HQW zones shall be so planned, designed and constructed to provide
protection from the runoff of the 25-year storm which produces the maximum peak
rate of runoff as calculated according to procedures in the United States
Department of Agriculture Natural Resources Conservation Service’s National
Engineering Field Handbook, or according to procedures adopted by any other
agency of this state or the United States or any generally recognized
organization or association.
      (3)   Sediment basins within HQW zones shall be designed and constructed
according to the following criteria:
         (a)   Use a surface withdrawal mechanism, except when the basin
drainage area is less than 1.0 acre;
         (b)   Have a minimum of 1800 cubic feet of storage area per acre of
disturbed area;
         (c)   Have a minimum surface area of 325 square feet per cfs of the
twenty-five year storm (q25) peak flow;
         (d)   Have a minimum dewatering time of 48 hours;
         (e)   Incorporate three baffles, unless the basin is less than 20 feet
in length, in which case two baffles shall be sufficient.
   Upon a written request of the applicant, the City Engineer may allow
alternative design and control measures in lieu of meeting the conditions
required in subparagraphs (3)(b) through (3)(e) of this sub-section if the
applicant demonstrates that meeting all of those conditions will result in
design or operational hardships and that the alternative measures will provide
an equal or more effective level of erosion and sediment control on the site.
Alternative measures may include quicker application of ground cover, use of
sediment flocculants, and use of enhanced ground cover practices.
      (4)   Newly constructed open channels in HQW zones shall be designed and
constructed with side slopes no steeper than two horizontal to one vertical (2:
1) if a vegetative cover is used for stabilization unless soil conditions
permit a steeper slope or where the slopes are stabilized by using mechanical
devices, structural devices or other acceptable ditch liners. In any event, the
angle for side slopes shall be sufficient to restrain accelerated erosion.
      (5)   Ground cover sufficient to restrain erosion must be provided for
any portion of a land-disturbing activity in a HQW zone within 90 calendar days
following completion of construction or development.
(Ord. No. 98-7, passed 1-8-1998; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 9-8-9 STORMWATER OUTLET PROTECTION.
   (A)   (1)   Persons shall conduct land-disturbing activity so that the post
construction velocity of the ten-year storm runoff in the receiving watercourse
to the discharge point does not exceed the greater of:
         (a)   The velocity established by the table in subsection (D) of this
section; or
         (b)   The velocity of the ten-year storm runoff in the receiving
watercourse prior to development.
      (2)   If conditions (1)(a) or (b) of this subsection (A) cannot be met,
then the receiving watercourse to and including the discharge point shall be
designed and constructed to withstand the expected velocity anywhere the
velocity exceeds the “prior to development” velocity by 10%.
   (B)   Acceptable management measures. Measures applied alone or in
combination to satisfy the intent of this section are acceptable if there are
no objectionable secondary consequences. The Commission recognizes that the
management of stormwater runoff to minimize or control downstream channel and
bank erosion is a developing technology. Innovative techniques and ideas will
be considered and may be used when shown to have the potential to produce
successful results. Some alternatives are to:
      (1)   Avoid increases in surface runoff volume and velocity by including
measures to promote infiltration to compensate for increased runoff from areas
rendered impervious;
      (2)   Avoid increases in stormwater discharge velocities by using
vegetated or roughened swales and waterways in lieu of closed drains and high
velocity paved sections;
      (3)   Provide energy dissipators at outlets of storm drainage facilities
to reduce flow velocities to the point of discharge (these may range from
simple rip-rapped sections to complex structures); and
      (4)   Protect watercourses subject to accelerated erosion by improving
cross-sections and/or providing erosion resistant lining.
      (5)   Upgrade or replace the receiving device structure, or watercourse
such that it will receive and conduct the flow to a point where it is no longer
subject to degradation from the increased rate of flow or increased velocity.
   (C)   Exceptions. This rule shall not apply where it can be demonstrated
that stormwater discharge velocities will not create an erosion problem in the
receiving watercourse.
   (D)   Table. The following is a table for maximum permissible velocity for
stormwater discharges in feet per second (F.P.S.) and meters per second
(M.P.S.:
Material F.P.S. M.P.S.
Material                                F.P.S. M.P.S.
Fine sand (noncolloidal)                2.5    0.8
Sandy loam (noncolloidal)               2.5    0.8
Silt loam (noncolloidal)                3.0    0.9
Ordinary firm loam                      3.5    1.1
Fine gravel                             5.0    1.5
Stiff clay (very colloidal)             5.0    1.5
Graded, loam to cobbles (non colloidal) 5.0    1.5
Graded, silt to cobbles (colloidal)     5.5    1.7
Alluvial silts (noncolloidal)           3.5    1.1
Alluvial silts (colloidal)              5.0    1.5
Coarse gravel (noncolloidal)            6.0    1.8
Cobbles and shingles                    5.5    1.7
Shales and hard pans                    6.0    1.8
 
(Source: Adapted from recommendations by Special Committee on Irrigation
Research, American Society of Civil Engineers, 1926, for channels with straight
alignment. For sinuous channels, multiply allowable velocity by 0.95 for
slightly sinuous, by 0.9 for moderately sinuous channels, and by 0.8 for highly
sinuous channels.)
(Ord. No. 98-7, passed 1-8-1998 ; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 9-8-10 BORROW AND WASTE AREAS.
   (A)   When the person conducting the land-disturbing activity is also the
person conducting the borrow or waste disposal activity, areas from which
borrow is obtained and which are not regulated by the provisions of the Mining
Act of 1971, and waste areas for surplus materials other than landfills
regulated by the Department’s Division of Solid Waste Management, shall be
considered as part of the land-disturbing activity where the borrow material is
being used or from which the waste material originated.
   (B)   When the person conducting the land-disturbing activity is not the
person obtaining the borrow and/or disposing of the waste, these areas shall be
considered a separate land-disturbing activity.
(Ord. No. 98-7, passed 1-8-1998; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
Statutory reference:
   State Mining Act of 1971, see G.S. 74-46 through 74-68
SEC. 9-8-11 ACCESS AND HAUL ROADS.
   Temporary access and haul roads, other than public roads, constructed or
used in connection with any land-disturbing activity, shall be considered a
part of that activity.
(Ord. No. 98-7, passed 1-8-1998)
SEC. 9-8-12 OPERATIONS IN LAKES OR NATURAL WATERCOURSES.
   Land-disturbing activity in connection with construction in, on, over or
under a lake or natural watercourse shall be planned and conducted in such a
manner as to minimize the extent and duration of disturbance of the stream
channel. The relocation of a stream, where relocation is an essential part of
the proposed activity, shall be planned and executed so as to minimize changes
in the stream flow characteristics, except when necessary justification for
significant alteration to flow characteristic is provided.
(Ord. No. 06-50, § 3, passed 6-8-2006)
SEC. 9-8-13 RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
   During the development of a site, the person conducting the land-disturbing
activity shall install and maintain all temporary and permanent erosion and
sedimentation control measures as required by the approved plan or any
provision of this chapter, the Act, or any order adopted pursuant to this
chapter or the Act. After site development, the landowner or person in
possession or control of the land shall install and/or maintain all necessary
permanent erosion and sediment control measures, except those measures
installed within a road or street right-of-way or easement accepted for
maintenance by a governmental agency.
(Ord. No. 98-7, passed 1-8-1998)
SEC. 9-8-14 ADDITIONAL MEASURES.
   Whenever the city determines that significant sedimentation is occurring as
a result of a land-disturbing activity, despite application and maintenance of
protective practices, the person conducting the land-disturbing activity will
be required to and shall take additional protective action.
(Ord. No. 98-7, passed 1-8-1998)
SEC. 9-8-15 (RESERVED).
SEC. 9-8-16 PERMITS.
   (A)   Required; exceptions.  No person shall undertake any land-disturbing
activity subject to this chapter without first obtaining a permit therefor from
the city, office of the City Engineer, except that no permit shall be required
for any land- disturbing activity as identified in section
9-8-4.
(Ord. No. 06-50, § 5, passed 6-8-2006)
   (B)   Fees.  A review fee established in accordance with the Manual of Fees
adopted by the City Council shall be submitted with each erosion control plan.
   (C)   Prerequisite to issue of building permit. No building permit shall be
issued for a structure until the Building Inspector has obtained evidence that
a valid land-disturbing permit has been obtained.
(Ord. No. 98-7, passed 1-8-1998; Ord. No. 99-119, § 11-14, passed 9-9-1999 ;
Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 9-8-17 EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   An erosion control plan shall be prepared for all land-disturbing
activities subject to this chapter whenever the proposed activity is to be
undertaken on a tract comprising more than one acre, if more than one acre is
to be uncovered. The plan shall be filed with the city, office of the City
Engineer at least 30 days prior to the commencement of the proposed activity.
This does not restrict the initiation of land disturbing activities when the
plan is approved and the permit is issued in less than 30 days from initial
submission.
   (B)    After approving the plan, if the office of the City Engineer, either
upon review of such plan or on inspection of the job site, determines that a
significant risk of accelerated erosion or off-site sedimentation exists, the
office of the City Engineer will require a revised plan. Pending the
preparation of the revised plan, work shall cease or shall continue under
conditions outlined by the appropriate authority.
   (C)   Erosion control plans shall be disapproved unless accompanied by an
authorized statement of financial responsibility and documentation of property
ownership. This statement shall be signed by the person financially responsible
for the land-disturbing activity or his or her attorney in fact. The statement
shall include the mailing and street addresses of the principal place of
business of the person financially responsible and of the owner of the land or
their registered agents. If the person financially responsible is not a
resident of North Carolina, a North Carolina agent must be designated in the
statement for the purpose of receiving notice of compliance or noncompliance
with the plan, the Act, this chapter or rules or orders adopted or issued
pursuant to this chapter. If the applicant is not the owner of the land to be
disturbed, the draft erosion and sedimentation control plan must include the
owner's written consent for the applicant to submit a draft erosion and
sedimentation control plan and to conduct the anticipated land-disturbing
activity.
   (D)    If the applicant is not the owner of the land to be disturbed and the
anticipated land-disturbing activity involves the construction of utility lines
for the provision of water, sewer, gas, telecommunications, or electrical
service, the draft erosion and sedimentation control plan may be submitted
without the written consent of the owner of the land, so long as the owner of
the land has been provided prior notice of the project.
   (E)   The office of the City Engineer will review each complete plan
submitted to it and within 30 days of receipt thereof will notify the person
submitting the plan that it has been approved, approved with modifications, or
disapproved. The office of the City Engineer shall condition approval of a
draft erosion control plan upon the applicant’s compliance with federal and
state water quality laws, regulations and rules. Failure to approve, or
disapprove, or approve with modifications a complete erosion and sedimentation
control plan within 30 days of receipt shall be deemed approval. If the plan is
disapproved, the City Engineer shall notify the applicant and, if required, the
Director of the Division of Energy, Mineral, and Land Resources of the
Department of Environmental Quality of such disapproval within ten days
thereof. The City Engineer shall advise the applicant and the Director of the
Division of Energy, Mineral, and Land Resources of the Department of
Environmental Quality, if required, in writing as to the specific reasons that
the plan was disapproved. The office of City Engineer must approve or
disapprove a revised plan within 15 days of receipt, or it is deemed to be
approved. If following commencement of a land-disturbing activity pursuant to
an approved plan, the office of City Engineer determines that the plan is
inadequate to meet the requirements of this chapter, the office of City
Engineer may require any revisions as are necessary to comply with this
chapter. Failure to approve, approve with modifications or disapprove a revised
erosion control plan within 15 days of receipt shall be deemed approval of the
plan.
(Ord. No. 00-155, §§ 5-6, passed 12-14-2000)
   (F)   Any plan submitted for a land-disturbing activity for which an
environmental document is required by the North Carolina Environmental Policy
Act (G.S. 113A-1 et seq.) shall be deemed incomplete until a complete
environmental document is available for review. The city shall promptly notify
the person submitting the plan that the 30-day time limit for review of the
plan pursuant to subsection (E) of this section shall not begin until a
complete environmental document is available for review.
   (G)   The plan required by this section shall contain architectural or
engineering drawings, maps, assumptions, calculations and narrative statements
as needed to adequately describe the proposed development of the tract and the
measures planned to comply with the requirements of this chapter. Plan content
may vary to meet the needs of specific site requirements. Detailed guidelines
for plan preparation may be obtained from the office of the City Engineer, on
request.
   (H)   An erosion control plan may be disapproved upon a finding that an
applicant, or a parent, subsidiary or other affiliate of the applicant:
      (1)   Is conducting or has conducted land-disturbing activity without an
approved plan, or has received notice of violation of a plan previously
approved by the Commission or a local government pursuant to the Act and has
not complied with the notice within the time specified in the notice;
      (2)   Has failed to pay a civil penalty assessed pursuant to the Act or a
local ordinance adopted pursuant to the Act by the time the payment is due;
      (3)   Has been convicted of a misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 113A-64(b) or
any criminal provision of a local ordinance adopted pursuant to the Act;
      (4)   Has failed to substantially comply with state rules or local
ordinances and regulations adopted pursuant to the Act. For purposes of this
subsection (H) an applicant’s record may be considered for only the two years
prior to the application date; or
      (5)   If implementation would result in a violation of rules adopted by
the Environmental Management Commission to protect riparian buffers along
surface waters under G.S. 113A-61(b1).
      (6)   In the event that an erosion and sedimentation control plan or a
transfer of a plan is disapproved by the city pursuant to subsection (H) of
this section, the city shall so notify the Director of the Division of Energy,
Mineral, and Land Resources within 10 days of the disapproval. The city shall
advise the applicant or the proposed transferee and the Director in writing as
to the specific reasons that the plan was disapproved. Notwithstanding the
provisions of §
9-8-18(A), the applicant may appeal the city's disapproval of the plan directly
to the Commission.
(Ord. No. 06-50, §§ 6-8, passed 6-8-2006)
   (I)   Applications for amendment of an erosion control plan in written and/
or graphic form may be made at any time under the same conditions as the
original application. Until such time as the amendment is approved by the
office of City Engineer, the land-disturbing activity shall not proceed except
in accordance with the erosion control plan as originally approved.
   (J)   Any person engaged in land-disturbing activity who fails to file a
sedimentation and erosion control plan and obtain a land-disturbing permit in
accordance with this chapter, or who conducts a land-disturbing activity except
in accordance with provisions of an approved plan, shall be deemed in violation
of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 99-119, § 15, passed 9-9-1999)
   (K)   An approved land-disturbing permit and/or erosion control plan shall
be valid for a period of three years from the date of approval.
(Ord. No. 99-119, § 16, passed 9-9-1999)
   (L)   A copy of the erosion control plan for any land-disturbing activity
that involves the utilization of ditches for the purpose of dewatering or
lowering the water table must be forwarded to the Director of the Division of
Water Resources.
(Ord. No. 00-155, § 7, passed 12-14-2000)
   (M)   No person may initiate a land-disturbing activity until notifying the
office of the City Engineer of the date that the land-disturbing activity will
begin.
(Ord. No. 00-155, § 7, passed 12-14-2000)
   (N)   A plan issued under this article shall be prominently displayed until
all construction is complete, all permanent sedimentation and erosion control
measures are installed and the site has been stabilized. A copy of the approved
plan should be kept on file at the job site.
(Ord. No. 06-50, § 9, passed 6-8-2006)
   (O)   The City Engineer shall only approve a plan upon determining that it
complies with all applicable state and local regulations for erosion and
sedimentation control. Approval assumes the applicant’s compliance with the
federal and state water quality laws, regulations and rules. The City Engineer
shall condition approval of plans upon the applicant’s compliance with federal
and state water quality laws, regulations and rules. The City Engineer may
establish an expiration date, not to exceed three years, for plans approved
under this chapter.
   (P)   The City Engineer may transfer an erosion and sedimentation control
plan approved pursuant to this section without the consent of the plan holder
to a successor-owner of the property on which the permitted activity is
occurring or will occur as provided in this subsection.
      (1)   The City Engineer may transfer a plan if all of the following
conditions are met:
         (a)   The successor-owner of the property submits to the local
government a written request for the transfer of the plan and an authorized
statement of financial responsibility and documentation of property ownership.
         (b)   The City Engineer finds all of the following:
            1.   The plan holder is one of the following:
               i.   A natural person who is deceased.
               ii.   A partnership, limited liability corporation, corporation,
or any other business association that has been dissolved.
               iii.   A person who has been lawfully and finally divested of
title to the property on which the permitted activity is occurring or will
occur.
               iv.   A person who has sold the property on which the permitted
activity is occurring or will occur.
            2.   The successor-owner holds title to the property on which the
permitted activity is occurring or will occur.
            3.   The successor-owner is the sole claimant of the right to
engage in the permitted activity.
            4.   There will be no substantial change in the permitted activity.
      (2)   The plan holder shall comply with all terms and conditions of the
plan until such time as the plan is transferred.
      (3)   The successor-owner shall comply with all terms and conditions of
the plan once the plan has been transferred.
      (4)   Notwithstanding changes to law made after the original issuance of
the plan, the City Engineer may not impose new or different terms and
conditions in the plan without the prior express consent of the successor-
owner. Nothing in this subsection shall prevent the City Engineer from
requiring a revised plan pursuant to G.S. 113A54.1(b).
(Ord. No. 98-7, passed 1-8-1998; Ord. No. 06-50, § 9, passed 6-8-2006; Ord. No.
23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 9-8-18 APPEALS.
   (A)   The disapproval or modifications of any proposed plan by the office of
City Engineer shall entitle the person submitting the plan to a public hearing,
if the person submits written demand to the City Manager for a hearing within
15 days after receipt of written notice of disapproval or modification.
   (B)   Hearings held pursuant to this section shall be conducted by theBoard
of Adjustment. Appeals requests to the Board of Adjustment shall be made
pursuant to Title 9, Article S of the city code. The City Engineer shall
transmit to the Board of Adjustment all documents constituting the record on
which the decision appealed from was taken.
   (C)   The applicant requesting a public hearing under this section will be
charged for the hearing in accordance with the City of Greenville’s Manual of
Fees.
   (D)   If the Board of Adjustment upholds the disapproval or modification of
a proposed soil erosion and sedimentation control plan following the hearing,
the person submitting the plan shall then be entitled to appeal the local
government’s decision to the North Carolina Sedimentation Control Commission as
provided in G.S. 113A-61(c) of the General Statutes of North Carolina and Title
15A, NCAC 4B.0118(d).
   (E)   In the event that an erosion control plan is disapproved pursuant to §
9-8-17(H), the applicant may appeal the city’s disapproval of the plan pursuant
to §
9-8-17(H) directly to the Commission.
(Ord. No. 98-7, passed 1-8-1998 ; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 9-8-19 INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The City Engineer and other appropriate officials of the city will
periodically inspect land-disturbing activities to ensure compliance with the
Act, this chapter, or rules or orders adopted or issued pursuant to this
chapter, and to determine whether the measures required in the plan are
effective in controlling erosion and sediment resulting from land-disturbing
activity. Notice of the right to inspect shall be included in the notification
of plan approval.
   (B)   No person shall willfully resist, delay or obstruct an authorized
representative, employee or agent of the city while that person is inspecting
or attempting to inspect a land-disturbing activity under this section.
   (C)   If it is determined that a person engaged in land-disturbing activity
has failed to comply with the Act, this chapter, or rules or orders adopted or
issued pursuant to this chapter; a notice of violation shall be served upon
that person. The notice may be served by any means authorized under G.S. 1A-1,
Rule 4. The notice shall specify a date by which the person must comply with
this chapter, or rules or orders adopted pursuant to this chapter, and inform
the person of the actions that need to be taken to comply with this chapter, or
rules, or orders adopted pursuant to this chapter. However, no time period for
compliance need be given for failure to submit an erosion control plan for
approval or for obstructing, hampering or interfering with an authorized
representative while in the process of carrying out his or her official duties.
Any person who fails to comply within the time specified is subject to the
civil and criminal penalties provided in this chapter.
   (D)   The city shall have the power to conduct such investigations as it may
reasonably deem necessary to carry out its duties as prescribed in this chapter
and, who presents appropriate credentials for this purpose, to enter at
reasonable times upon any property, public or private, for the purpose of
investigating and inspecting the sites of any land-disturbing activity.
   (E)   The city shall also have the power to require written statements or
the filing of reports under oath with respect to pertinent questions relating
to land-disturbing activity.
(Ord. No. 98-7, passed 1-8-1998; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 9-8-20 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter, or
rules or orders adopted or issued pursuant to this chapter, or who initiates or
continues a land-disturbing activity for which a plan is required except in
accordance with the terms, conditions and provisions of an approved plan, is
subject to a civil penalty. The maximum civil penalty for a violation, other
than a stop-work order issued under G.S. 113A-65.1, is $5,000 per day. The
maximum civil penalty for a violation of a stop-work order is $5,000. A civil
penalty may be assessed from the date of the violation. Each day of a
continuing violation shall constitute a separate violation. When the person has
not been assessed any civil penalty under this subsection for any previous
violation, and that person abated continuing environmental damage resulting
from the violation within 180 days from the date of the notice of violation,
the maximum cumulative total civil penalty assessed under this subsection for
all violations associated with the land-disturbing activity for which the
erosion and sedimentation control plan is required is $25,000. No penalty shall
be assessed until the person alleged to be in violation has been notified of
the violation as provided in section
9-8-19(C). A civil penalty may be assessed from the date of the violation.
Refusal to accept the notice or failure to notify the City Engineer of a change
of address shall not relieve the violator’s obligation to comply with this
chapter or to pay such penalty. A person may also be assessed a one-time civil
penalty of up to $5,000 for the day the violation is first detected.
(Ord. No. 00-155, §§ 8–10, passed 12-14-2000)
   (B)   The person responsible for the violation of this chapter shall be
subject to a civil penalty in the amount of $100 to $5,000 per day maximum for
the first offense, $250 to $5,000 per day maximum for the second offense during
the life of the project, and $5,000 per day maximum for the third and
subsequent offenses for the life of the project. The offenses shall be
considered on a site-by-site basis. The penalty shall be established by the
City Engineer, depending on the existence of aggravating and/or mitigating
circumstances surrounding the violation. Violations of this type may include
but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Grading without a permit issued by the city;
      (2)   Grading beyond the limits of an existing grading permit without
approval of an amended grading permit;
      (3)   Failure to properly install or maintain erosion control measures in
accordance with the approved plan so as to prevent off-site sedimentation;
      (4)   Failure to retain sediment from leaving a land-disturbing activity,
in accordance with the approved plan or other terms, as required by this
chapter;
      (5)   Failure to restore off-site areas affected by sedimentation during
the time limitation established in a notice of violation;
      (6)   Any other violation of this chapter which resulted in off-site
sedimentation and, in the discretion of the City Engineer, warrants an
assessment of a civil penalty;
      (7)   Failure to provide an angle on graded slopes sufficient to retain
vegetative cover or other adequate erosion control devices or structures or
failure to plant or otherwise provide with ground cover, devices or structures
sufficient to restrain erosion within 21 calendar days of completion of any
phase of grading on slopes left exposed;
      (8)   Failure to provide a ground cover sufficient to prevent erosion
within 90 calendar days, following completion of construction or development;
      (9)   Failure to submit to the office of the City Engineer for approval
an acceptable revised erosion and sedimentation control plan after being
notified by the City Engineer of the need to do so;
      (10)   Failure to retain a buffer zone of sufficient width along a lake
or natural watercourse to confine visible siltation within the 25% of the
buffer zone nearest the land-disturbing activity;
      (11)   Failure to schedule and conduct a preconstruction meeting prior to
any land-disturbing activity, as required on the approved plan; and/or
      (12)   Any other action that constituted a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 00-155, § 11, passed 12-14-2000; Ord. No. 06-50, § 10, passed 6-8-
2006)
   (C)   In determining the amount of the civil penalty, the City Engineer
shall consider the following factors: the degree and extent of harm caused by
the violation; the cost of rectifying the damage; whether the violator saved
money by noncompliance; whether the violation was committed willfully after
being informed of the potential violation; and the prior record of the violator
in complying or failing to comply with this chapter. The City Engineer is
authorized to reduce the amount of the per diem penalty set out in subsection
(B) above to take into account any relevant mitigating factors.
(Ord. No. 06-50, § 11, passed 6-8-2006)
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, no required time
period need be given for compliance for failure to submit an erosion control
plan and land-disturbing permit for greater than one acre before a land-
disturbing activity occurs and the penalty for the commencement of the land-
disturbing activity without submittal of such plan and permit shall be a
minimum of $500 and a maximum of $5,000, if warranted, for the land-disturbing
activity in question.
(Ord. No. 06-50, § 12, passed 6-8-2006)
   (E)   Any person who fails to protect adjacent properties from pollutants
shall be subject to a civil action as provided in section
9-8-21. Civil penalties for pollutants leaving the construction site may be
assessed based on those factors listed in subsection (C) of this section.
(Ord. No. 06-50, § 13, passed 6-8-2006)
   (F)   The City Engineer shall determine the amount of the civil penalty and
shall notify the person who is assessed the civil penalty of the amount of the
penalty and the reason for assessing the penalty. The notice of assessment
shall be served by any means authorized under G.S. 1A-1, Rule 4 and shall
direct the violator to either pay the assessment, request a remission of the
amount of the assessment as specified in subsection (G), or contest the
assessment as specified in subsection (H). If a violator does not pay a civil
penalty assessed by the City Engineer within 30 days after it is due, request a
remission as provided in subsection (G), or does not request a hearing as
provided in subsection (H), the City Engineer shall request the City Attorney
to institute a civil action to recover the amount of the assessment. The civil
action may be brought in Pitt County Superior Court or in the Superior Court
for the county where the violator’s residence or principal place of business is
located.
   (G)   A request for remission of a civil penalty imposed under G.S. 113A-64
may be filed with the Director of Engineering within 30 days of receipt of the
notice of assessment. A remission request must be accompanied by a waiver of
the right to a contested case hearing pursuant to G.S. Chapter 150B and a
stipulation of the facts on which the assessment was based. The following
factors shall be considered in determining whether a civil penalty remission
request will be approved:
      (1)   Whether one or more of the civil penalty assessment factors in G.S.
113A-64(a)(3) were wrongly applied to the detriment of the petitioner.
      (2)   Whether the petitioner promptly abated continuing environmental
damage resulting from the violation.
      (3)   Whether the violation was inadvertent or a result of an accident.
      (4)   Whether the petitioner had been assessed civil penalties for any
previous violations.
      (5)   Whether payment of the civil penalty will prevent payment for
necessary remedial actions or would otherwise create a significant financial
hardship.
      (6)   The assessed property tax valuation of the petitioner's property
upon which the violation occurred, excluding the value of any structures
located on the property.
   (H)   A violator may contest the assessment of a civil penalty by submitting
a written request for a review of the assessment by the City Engineer to the
Director of Engineering within 15 days after receipt of the notice of
assessment. Upon receipt of the written request, the City Engineer shall confer
with the Director of Engineering concerning the civil penalty; and after the
conference, the Director of Engineering shall notify the violator within ten
days after receipt of the written request for a review whether the penalty has
been upheld or modified. If the violator is not satisfied with the action of
the Director of Engineering, the violator may further contest the assessment by
submitting a written demand for a public hearing before the Board of Adjustment
to the Director of Engineering and the Planning and Development Services
Director within 30 days after receipt of the initial notice of assessment from
the City Engineer. Appeals requests to the Board of Adjustment shall be made
pursuant to Title 9, Article S of the city code. An appeal from the decision of
the Board of Adjustment shall be to the Superior Court of Pitt County.
   (I)   A civil action to recover the amount of the assessment must be filed
within three years of the date the assessment was due. An assessment that is
not contested is due when the violator is served with a notice of assessment.
An assessment that is contested is due at the conclusion of the administrative
and judicial review of the assessment.
   (J)   Civil penalties collected pursuant to this chapter shall be credited
to the Civil Penalty and Forfeiture Fund in accordance with G.S. 115C-457.2.
Penalties collected by the city may be diminished only by the actual costs of
collection. The collection cost percentage to be used shall be established and
approved by the North Carolina Office of State Budget and Management on an
annual basis, based upon the computation of actual collection costs by the City
for the prior fiscal year.
(Ord. No. 06-50, § 14, passed 6-8-2006)
   (K)   Any person who knowingly or willfully violates any provisions of this
chapter or who knowingly or willfully initiates or continues a land-disturbing
activity for which a plan is required, except in accordance with the terms,
conditions, and provisions of an approved plan, shall be guilty of a Class 2
misdemeanor and may be subject to a fine not to exceed $5,000 in accordance
with G.S. 113A-64.
   (L)   A violation of this chapter that is not knowing or not willful shall
not constitute a misdemeanor or infraction punishable under North Carolina G.S.
14-4, but instead shall be subject to the civil penalties provided in this
section.
(Ord. No. 98-7, passed 1-8-1998; Ord. No. 99-119, § 17, passed 9-9-1999; Ord.
19-045, § 1, passed 9- 12-2019; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023)
SEC. 9-8-21 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   (A)   Whenever the City Engineer has reasonable cause to believe that any
person is violating or threatening to violate this chapter or any rule or order
adopted or issued pursuant to this chapter or any term, condition or provision
of an approved erosion control plan, it may, either before or after institution
of any other action or proceeding authorized by this chapter, institute a civil
action in the name of the city for injunctive relief to restrain the violation
or threatened violation. The action shall be brought in the Superior Court of
Pitt County.
   (B)   Upon determination by a court that an alleged violation is occurring
or is threatened the court shall enter any order or judgment that is necessary
to abate the violation, to ensure that restoration is performed, or to prevent
the threatened violation. The institution of an action for injunctive relief
under this section shall not relieve any party to the proceedings from any
civil or criminal penalty prescribed for violations of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 98-7, passed 1-8-1998; Ord. No. 99-119, §§ 19, 20, passed 9-9-1999)
SEC. 9-8-22 RESTORATION OF AREAS AFFECTED BY FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   The City Engineer may require a person who engaged in a land-disturbing
activity and failed to retain sediment generated by the activity, as required
by G.S. 113A-57(3), to restore the waters and land affected by the failure so
as to minimize the detrimental effects of the resulting pollution by
sedimentation. This authority is in addition to any other civil or criminal
penalty or injunctive relief authorized under this chapter.
(Ord. No. 98-7, passed 1-8-1998; Ord. No. 99-119, §§ 21, 22, passed 9-9-1999)
SEC. 9-8-23 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section or sections of this chapter is/are held to be invalid or
unenforceable, all other sections shall nevertheless continue in full force and
effect.
(Ord. No. 98-7, § 1, passed 1-8-1998)
CHAPTER 9: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL
Section
   
9-9-1   Title
   
9-9-2   Authority
   
9-9-3   Purposes
   
9-9-4   Definitions
   
9-9-5   Applicability; exclusions
   
9-9-6   Administration and procedures
   
9-9-7   Existing stormwater control measures
   
9-9-8   Stormwater alteration permit
   
9-9-9   Protection of riparian areas
   
9-9-10   Nitrogen and phosphorus loading rate targets
   
9-9-11   Control and treatment of runoff volume
   
9-9-12   Methods to meet nutrient control requirements
   
9-9-13   Impervious surface averaging
   
9-9-14   Stormwater control measures (SCMs) and detention facilities
   
9-9-15   Attenuation requirements
   
9-9-16   Payment in lieu of attenuation
   
9-9-17   Drainage system responsibility
   
9-9-18   Variances
   
9-9-19   SCM acceptance and warranty
   
9-9-20   SCM inspection and maintenance
   
9-9-21   Qualified professional status
   
9-9-22   Drainage assistance projects located outside of city-owned rights-of-
way
   
9-9-23   Acceptance of maintenance responsibility for open channels by the city
   
9-9-24   Illicit discharges and connections
   
9-9-25   Enforcement
   
9-9-26   Appeals
SEC. 9-9-1 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the City of Greenville's
"Stormwater Management and Control Ordinance" or this chapter.
(Ord. No. 24-021, § 1, passed 4-11-2024)
SEC. 9-9-2 AUTHORITY.
   The City of Greenville is authorized to adopt this chapter pursuant to North
Carolina law, including but not limited to Article 14, Section 5 of the
Constitution of North Carolina; G.S. Chapter 143-214.7 and rules promulgated by
the Environmental Management Commission thereunder; G.S. Chapter 143-215.6A;
G.S. Chapter 153A-454; G.S. 160A-174 and 160A-185; and G.S. Chapter 160D,
including 160D-925.
(Ord. No. 24-021, § 1, passed 4-11-2024)
SEC. 9-9-3 PURPOSES.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted for the purposes of:
      (1)   Protecting the public health, safety and welfare by controlling the
discharge of pollutants into the stormwater drainage system and waters of the
state;
      (2)   Promoting the public health, safety and general welfare and to
minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by
regulations designed to control the rate of release of stormwater runoff of
certain developments where the rate of runoff has been significantly increased;
      (3)   Promoting activities directed toward the maintenance and
improvement of surface and ground water quality;
      (4)   To protect the riparian buffer along intermittent and perennial
streams;
      (5)   Limiting the nitrogen and phosphorus load from development;
      (6)   Satisfying the requirements imposed upon the City of Greenville
under the Tar-Pamlico Stormwater Rule (15A NCAC 2B .0731), the Neuse Stormwater
Rule (15A NCAC 02B .0711), and the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination
System (NPDES) Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4) discharge permit
issued by the North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality (NCDEQ); and
      (7)   Establishing administration and enforcement procedures through
which these purposes can be fulfilled.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter are supplemental to regulations
administered by federal and state governments.
(Ord. No. 24-021, § 1, passed 4-11-2024)
SEC. 9-9-4 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless other provisions of this chapter specifically indicate otherwise.
   Built-upon area (BUA). Has the same meaning as in G.S. 143-214.7(b2).
   City. The City of Greenville, North Carolina.
   City Engineer. The City Engineer of the City of Greenville, North Carolina.
   Common plan of development. Has the same meaning as in 15A NCAC 02H .1002
(8).
   Detention facility. A facility, constructed for the purpose of detaining
stormwater runoff from a developed site to control the peak discharge rates. A
detention facility does not provide water quality treatment the way a
Stormwater Control Measure (SCM) does.
   Development. Has the same meaning as in G.S. 143-214.7(a1)(1).
   Development approval. Has the same meaning as G.S. 160D-102(13).
   Ditch. An open channel constructed to transfer stormwater from one area to
another. This does not include any open channel that is classified as a
perennial or intermittent stream or a swale.
   Drainage easement. A written, recorded easement granted for the installation
and maintenance of the stormwater drainage system and/or along a natural stream
or watercourse for preserving the channel and providing access for maintenance
and operation.
   Drainage requirements.
      (1)   Minimum drainage standards as established by this chapter;
      (2)   Regulations promulgated by the Public Works Department or
Engineering Department of the city;
      (3)   Obligations and requirements relating to drainage established under
the Subdivision Control Ordinance of the city, as set forth in Title 9, Chapter
5;
      (4)   Requirements stated under the Zoning Ordinance of the city as set
forth in Title 9, Chapter 4, including floodway zoning requirements; and
      (5)   Conditions relating to drainage attached to a grant of variance by
the Board of Adjustment of the city.
   Dispersed flow. Has the same meaning as in 15A NCAC 02H .1002(13).
   Existing built-upon area. The built-upon area or net equivalent amount of
built-upon area resulting from existing development.
   Existing development. Has the same meaning as in 15A NCAC 02H .1002(17).
   Exposure of prohibited substances. Any unlawful disposal, placement,
emptying, dumping, spillage, leakage, pumping, pouring, emission or other
discharge of any substance other than stormwater, unless associated with
permitted activity as identified in section
9-9-16(A), upon the land in such proximity to the stormwater drainage system,
such that the substance is likely to reach the stormwater drainage system.
   Extraterritorial jurisdiction. The area beyond the city limits within which
the planning, zoning and building regulations of the city apply in accordance
with state law. The area is delineated on the official zoning map for the city.
   Illicit connection. Any unlawful connection that allows the discharge of
prohibited non-stormwater to the stormwater drainage system in violation of
this chapter.
   Illicit discharge. Any unlawful disposal, placement, emptying, dumping,
spillage, leakage, pumping, pouring, emission or other discharge of any
substance other than stormwater, unless associated with permitted activity as
identified in §
9-9-16(A), into the stormwater drainage system.
   Jurisdictional stream. A stream that has been determined to be either
perennial or intermittent by the North Carolina Department of Environmental
Quality (NCDEQ) or the United States Army Corps of Engineers (USACE).
   Land-disturbing activity. Any use of the land by any person in residential,
industrial, educational, institutional or commercial development, highway and
road construction and maintenance that results in a change in the natural cover
or topography and that may cause or contribute to sedimentation.
   Like-new condition. Used to describe a compliant stormwater control measure
at the warranty inspection. The SCM shall have no visible erosion or
accumulation of sediment, proper established vegetation per the design, and be
functioning as designed.
   Major variance. Any variance of this chapter that is not a "minor variance"
as that term is defined in this section. For any provisions in this chapter
that are more stringent than the minimum applicable Neuse (15A NCAC 02B .0711)
or Tar-Pamlico (15A NCAC 02B .0731) rules, a variance to this chapter is not
considered a major variance as long as the result of the variance is not less
stringent than the minimum requirements of those rules.
   Manual of Standard Details and Design (MSDD). The most current published
version of the city's Manual of Standard Details and Design approved by the
City Engineer.
   Minimum Design Criteria (MDC). The requirements stated in 15A NCAC 02H .1050
through .1062.
   Minor variance. A variance from the minimum applicable Neuse or Tar-Pamlico
Stormwater Rules that results in the relaxation of up to 10% of any density, or
minimum lot size requirement applicable to low density development, or the
relaxation of up to 5% of any density, or minimum lot size requirement
applicable to high density development.
   Municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4). Pursuant to 40CFR 122.26(b) a
system of conveyance (including without limitation: roads with drainage
systems, municipal streets, catch basins, stormwater detention facilities,
curbs, gutters, ditches, natural or man-made channels, or storm drains), that:
      (1)   Is located within the corporate limits of Greenville, North
Carolina;
      (2)   Is owned or operated by the city;
      (3)   Discharges to waters of the state or another municipal system,
excluding publicly owned treatment works, and lawful connections thereto, which
in turn discharge into the waters of the state;
      (4)   Designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater;
      (5)   Which is not a combined sewer; and
      (6)   Which is not part of a Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW) as
defined in 40 GFR 122.2.
   NCDEQ. North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality.
   NPDES or National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System. A program
implemented pursuant to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act and corollary
state law by NCDEQ to eliminate the discharge of pollutants to waters of the
United States and waters of the state.
   One-year, five-year, ten-year and 25-year, 24-hour storm events. The maximum
amount of rainfall during a 24 consecutive hour period expected, per the stated
interval, as determined by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
(NOAA) Precipitation Frequency Data Server (PFDS).
   Ordinance. This chapter - the Stormwater Management and Control Ordinance.
   Pollutant. Has the same meaning as in 33 U.S.C. 1362(6).
   Primary SCM. Has the same meaning as in 15A NCAC 02H .1002(37).
   Private drainage. Any portion of the stormwater drainage system that is not
"public drainage" as defined in this section.
   Project. Has the same meaning as in 15A NCAC 02H .1002(38).
   Public drainage. Any portion of the stormwater drainage system that conveys
"public runoff" as defined in this section, excluding stormwater control
measures and detention facilities not owned or operated by the city.
   Public runoff. Stormwater runoff wholly or partially from publicly owned
rights-of-way, owned or operated by the city or North Carolina Department of
Transportation (NCDOT), and from city-owned property.
   Qualified professional. As determined by the Stormwater Administrator an
individual who both: has received a baccalaureate or postgraduate degree in the
natural sciences or engineering; and is trained and experienced in stormwater
treatment techniques and related fields as may be demonstrated by state
registration, professional certification, or completion of coursework that
enable the individual to make sound, professional judgments regarding
stormwater control/treatment and drainage planning and subject to the
requirements of section 9-9-21.
   Record drawings. A set of plan drawings from site survey information
reflecting actual development as it was constructed. Minimum information to be
included in the record drawings is established in the City of Greenville Manual
of Standard Designs and Details.
   Redevelopment. Has the same meaning as in G.S. 143-214.7(a1)(2).
   Registered professional. An individual who is registered in the State of
North Carolina as a professional engineer.
   Riparian buffer. The 50-foot wide area directly adjacent to surface waters
in the Tar-Pamlico and Neuse River Basins (intermittent streams, perennial
streams, lakes, ponds and estuaries), excluding wetlands. For the purpose of
this definition, a surface water shall be present if the feature is
approximately shown on either the most recent version of the soil survey map by
the Natural Resources Conservation Service of the United States Department of
Agriculture or the most recent version of the 1:24,000 scale (7.5 minute)
quadrangle topographic maps prepared by the United States Geologic Survey
(USGS).
   Stormwater. Has the same meaning as defined in G.S. 143-213(16a).
   Stormwater Administrator. The City Engineer or his or her designee
responsible for all decisions concerning application and enforcement of the
stormwater management and control ordinance, programs, and policies and any
matters related to the program.
   Stormwater Control Measures (SCMs). Has the same meaning as 15A NCAC 02H
.1002(49).
   Stormwater drainage system. The system of natural features and constructed
devices that collect and transport stormwater. Those include, but are not
limited to, swales, ditches, swamps, rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes
and reservoirs, ponds, inlets, catch basins, pipes and drains, culverts and
head walls.
   Stormwater management program. Program designed to protect water quality by
controlling the level of pollutants in, and the quantity and flow of,
stormwater.
   Surface drainage. A system by which the stormwater runoff is conducted to an
outlet. This would include the proper grading of parking lots, streets,
driveways and yards so that stormwater runoff is removed without ponding and
flows to the stormwater drainage system.
   Swale. A natural or constructed waterway, usually broad and shallow, covered
with erosion-resistant grasses, used to convey surface water from a field,
diversion or other site feature.
      (1)   A swale for the sole purpose of conveyance shall have
characteristics as identified in the MSDD.
      (2)   A treatment swale for the purpose of water quality treatment shall
be classified as a stormwater control measure and shall meet the minimum design
criteria as established in 15A NCAC 2H .1061.
   Vegetated conveyance. Has the same meaning as in 15A NCAC 02H .1002(52).
   Watershed master plan(s). Detailed hydraulic studies completed by the City
of Greenville to evaluate existing flooding, water quality, and erosion
problems, recommend and prioritize stormwater capital improvements, and map and
inventory existing stormwater drainage system components. These plans include:
Greens Mill Run Watershed Master Plan, Swift Creek Watershed Master Plan, Fork
Swamp Watershed Master Plan, Hardee Creek Watershed Master Plan, Harris Mill
Run/Schoolhouse Branch Watershed Master Plan, Parkers Creek/Johnsons Mill Run
Watershed Master Plan, and Meetinghouse Branch Watershed Master Plan.
   Waters of the state. Has the same meaning as in G.S. 143-212(6).
(Ord. No. 24-021, § 1, passed 4-11-2024)
SEC. 9-9-5 APPLICABILITY; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   Beginning with and subsequent to its effective date, this chapter
shall be applicable to all development and expansion of development throughout
the corporate limits and extraterritorial jurisdiction of the City of
Greenville unless exempt pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   The following are exempt from this chapter:
      (1)   Single family and duplex residential and related recreational
development and expansion of development that disturbs less than one acre;
      (2)   Commercial, industrial, institutional, multi-family residential or
local government development that disturbs less than one-half acre and does not
expand existing structures on a parcel;
      (3)   Commercial, industrial, institutional, multi-family residential or
local government development that disturbs less than one-half acre and expands
existing structures on a parcel and, but does not result in a cumulative built-
upon area for the parcel exceeding 24%;
      (4)   Development of an individual single-family or duplex residential
lot that is not part of a larger common plan of development or sale and does
not result in greater than 5% built-upon area on the lot;
      (5)   Existing development or redevelopment pursuant to G.S. 143-214.7
(b3);
      (6)   Development or expansion of development with a vested right per the
standards of G.S. 160D-108;
      (7)   Development or expansion of development for which the permit
application was submitted prior to adoption of this chapter;
      (8)   Activities subject to requirements of the Neuse Agriculture Rule
(15A NCAC 02B .0712) or Tar-Pamlico Agriculture Rule (15A NCAC 02B .0732),
provided that agricultural master plan communities subject to section 9-4-161
meet the attenuation requirements of section 9-9-15; and
      (9)   Any area or subject matter where federal, state or local
government, including their agencies, have jurisdiction preempting the city
unless intergovernmental agreements have been established giving the city
enforcement authority.
   (C)   No development or expansion of development shall occur except in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter or unless exempted. No
development or expansion of development for which a permit is required pursuant
to this chapter shall occur except in compliance with the provisions,
conditions, and limitations of the permit.
(Ord. No. 24-021, § 1, passed 4-11-2024)
SEC. 9-9-6 ADMINISTRATION AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The City Engineer or his or her designee shall serve as the Stormwater
Administrator and shall be responsible for all decisions concerning application
and enforcement of this chapter, programs, and policies and any matters related
to the program.
   (B)   Stormwater management permit.
      (1)   A stormwater management permit is required for all development and
expansion of development unless exempt pursuant to this chapter. A permit may
only be issued subsequent to a properly submitted and reviewed permit
application, pursuant to this section.
      (2)   A stormwater management permit shall govern the design,
installation, construction, operation, and maintenance of stormwater management
and control practices on the site, including stormwater control measures and
elements of site design for stormwater management other than stormwater control
measures.
      (3)   The permit is intended to provide a mechanism for the review,
approval, and inspection of the approach to be used for the management and
control of stormwater for the development site consistent with the requirements
of this chapter, whether the approach consists of stormwater control measures
or other techniques such as low-impact or low-density design. The permit
continues in existence indefinitely for the life of the development. Expansion
or redevelopment of a permitted development may require amendment to the
stormwater management permit. Continued compliance after project construction
is assured by the deed restriction and inspection and maintenance provisions of
this chapter.
   (C)   Stormwater management permit application submittal.
      (1)   A permit application may be submitted by the landowner, a lessee or
person holding an option or contract to purchase or lease the land for the
proposed development, or an authorized agent of the landowner. An easement
holder may also apply for a permit for development as is authorized by the
easement.
      (2)   The City Council will establish and revise from time-to-time permit
application review fees, as well as policies regarding refund of any fees upon
withdrawal of an application. The fees will be set to recoup the city's costs
in permit application review.
      (3)   The Stormwater Administrator shall establish requirements for the
content and form of all applications and shall amend and update those
requirements from time to time. The Stormwater Administrator shall establish a
checklist of minimum required information to constitute a complete application.
The Stormwater Administrator shall compile the application requirements,
submission schedule, fee schedule, a copy of this chapter, form notice of deed
restrictions or protective covenants, and information on how and where to
obtain the Manual of Standard Details and Design in an Administrative Manual,
which shall be made available to the public
      (4)   At a minimum, the stormwater permit application shall describe in
detail how post-development stormwater runoff will be controlled and managed,
the design of all stormwater facilities and practices, and how the proposed
project will meet the requirements of this chapter.
      (5)   The applicant must also acknowledge and consent to the recordation
of deed restrictions or covenants that prevent the removal or alteration of
SCMs or detention facilities without the Stormwater Administrator's prior
consent.
      (6)   All such plans shall be prepared by a qualified registered North
Carolina professional engineer, surveyor, soil scientist or landscape
architect. The engineer, surveyor, soil scientist or landscape architect shall
perform services only in their area of competence and shall verify and certify
that the design of all stormwater management facilities and practices meets the
submittal requirements for complete applications and that the designs and plans
comply with applicable standards promulgated pursuant to this chapter,
including those set forth in the Manual of Standard Designs and Details.
      (7)   The Stormwater Administrator shall establish a submission schedule
for applications. The schedule shall establish deadlines by which complete
applications must be submitted for the purpose of ensuring that there is
adequate time to review applications, and that the various stages in the review
process are accommodated.
      (8)   Applications for a stormwater management permit shall be submitted
to the Stormwater Administrator pursuant to the application submittal schedule
in the form established by the Stormwater Administrator, along with the
appropriate information pursuant to this section.
      (9)   An application shall be considered as timely submitted only when it
contains all elements of a complete application pursuant to this chapter. If
the Stormwater Administrator finds that an application is incomplete, the
applicant shall be notified of the deficient elements within five business days
and shall be provided with an opportunity to submit a complete application.
However, the submittal of an incomplete application shall not suffice to meet a
deadline contained in the submission schedule established above.
      (10)   Before a stormwater management permit application is submitted,
the applicant may request a consultation on a concept plan for the post-
construction stormwater management to be utilized in the proposed development
project. This consultation meeting should take place at the time of the
preliminary plan of subdivision or other early step in the development process.
The purpose of this meeting is to discuss the stormwater management measures
necessary for the proposed project, as well as to discuss and assess
constraints, opportunities and potential approaches to stormwater management
designs before formal site design engineering is commenced.
   (D)   Stormwater management permit application review and approval.
      (1)   The Stormwater Administrator shall establish a review schedule for
applications. The schedule shall establish deadlines by which complete
applications are reviewed and a determination is made as to whether the
application complies with the standards of this chapter. This review schedule
may distinguish different review periods for initial application submittals
from revised application submittals.
      (2)   Within the review schedule, the Stormwater Administrator shall
review the application and determine whether the application complies with the
standards of this chapter.
      (3)   If the Stormwater Administrator finds that the application complies
with the standards of this chapter, the Stormwater Administrator shall approve
the application and issue the stormwater management permit for the project. The
Stormwater Administrator may impose conditions of approval as needed to ensure
compliance with this chapter. The conditions shall be included as part of the
approval.
      (4)   If the Stormwater Administrator finds that the application fails to
comply with the standards of this chapter, the Stormwater Administrator shall
notify the applicant and shall indicate how the application fails to comply.
The applicant shall have opportunity to submit a revised application.
      (5)   A complete revised application shall be reviewed by the Stormwater
Administrator pursuant to the established review schedule after its re-
submittal and shall be approved, approved with conditions or disapproved and
the applicant shall have opportunity to submit a revised application.
      (6)   If a revised application is not re-submitted within a period of six
consecutive months from the date the applicant was notified, the application
shall be considered withdrawn, and a new application submittal shall be
required.
      (7)   Approval and issuance of the stormwater management permit
authorizes the applicant to go forward with only the specific plans and
activities authorized in the permit. The approval shall not be construed to
exempt the applicant from obtaining other applicable approvals from local,
state, and federal authorities.
      (8)   Pursuant to G.S. 160D-108, an approved permit shall become null and
void if the applicant fails to make substantial progress on the site within the
applicable vesting period.
   (E)   Record drawings, deed restrictions or protective covenants, and final
approvals.
      (1)   Upon completion of a project, the applicant shall certify that the
completed project is in accordance with the approved stormwater management
plans and designs, and shall submit record drawings for all stormwater control
measures or detention facilities after final construction is completed.
      (2)   The applicant shall further certify to the Stormwater Administrator
that the notice of deed restrictions or protective covenants preventing the
removal or alteration of the SCMs and detention facilities reflected in the
approved plans without the Stormwater Administrator's prior consent has been
recorded in the chain of title on the development property with the Register of
Deeds, Pitt County, with a copy of the recorded document.
      (3)   The Stormwater Administrator shall establish the submittal format
and a checklist of minimum required information to be included in the record
drawing submittal. The licensed professional who designed the stormwater
control measures, detention facilities, and plans shall certify, under seal,
that the stormwater control measures, detention facilities, controls, and
devices are constructed and in compliance with the approved stormwater
management plans and designs and with the requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   No certificate of compliance or occupancy shall be issued without
final record drawings, the certification of recording the notice of deed
restrictions or private covenants, and a final inspection and approval by the
Stormwater Administrator, except where financial sureties have been submitted
to and approved by the Stormwater Administrator to ensure compliance with this
chapter.
(Ord. No. 24-021, § 1, passed 4-11-2024)
SEC. 9-9-7 EXISTING STORMWATER CONROL MEASURES.
   (A)   For projects draining to and relying upon an existing detention
facility or SCM for compliance with this chapter, the existing detention
facility or SCM must be in compliance at the time of site plan or residential
final plat approval unless a written plan of action to bring them into
compliance is submitted to and approved by the Stormwater Administrator.
   (B)   No certificate of compliance or occupancy shall be issued without a
final inspection and approval by the Stormwater Administrator of such existing
SCMs or detention facilities, except where financial sureties have been
submitted to and approved by the Stormwater Administrator to ensure compliance
with this chapter.
(Ord. No. 24-021, § 1, passed 4-11-2024)
SEC. 9-9-8 STORMWATER ALTERATION PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall construct, repair or alter the stormwater drainage
system for the purpose of draining water from any land or premises unless he or
she shall have first applied for and obtained therefore a permit from the City
Engineer. It is unlawful for any person to perform any work or make any
alteration for which a permit is required under this section except in
compliance with said permit.
   (B)   The application shall be in writing and on a form provided by the City
Engineer.
   (C)   The City Engineer shall issue the permit unless the City Engineer
finds that the construction or repair work or alternations proposed would be
contrary to the provisions of this article. The City Engineer may impose
reasonable conditions upon the issuance of the permit to ensure compliance with
this article which conditions may include, but shall not be limited to,
specifications of the materials to be used and the manner in which the work or
alteration is to be performed.
(Ord. No. 24-021, § 1, passed 4-11-2024)
SEC. 9-9-9 PROTECTION OF RIPARIAN AREAS.
   (A)   The Tar-Pamlico riparian buffer protection rule, 15A NCAC 2B .0734,
and Neuse riparian buffer rule, 15A NCAC 02B .0714, require that 50-foot
riparian buffers be maintained on all sides of intermittent and perennial
streams, ponds, lakes and estuarine waters in the basin. The buffer rule
provides for certain "allowable" uses within the buffer with NCDEQ approval,
such as road and utility crossings.
   (B)   The city shall disapprove any new development activity proposed within
the first 50 feet adjacent to a waterbody that is shown on either the USGS 7.5
minute topographic map or the NRCS soil survey map unless the owner can show
that the activity has been approved by NCDEQ. NCDEQ approval may consist of the
following:
      (1)   An on-site determination that surface waters are not present;
      (2)   An authorization certificate from NCDEQ for an "allowable" use such
as a road crossing or utility line, or for a use that is "allowable with
mitigation" along with a NCDEQ-approved mitigation plan. A table delineating
such uses is included in the buffer rule;
      (3)   An opinion from NCDEQ that vested rights have been established for
the proposed development activity; and/or
      (4)   A letter from NCDEQ documenting that a variance has been approved
for the proposed development activity.
   (C)   After site development, it shall be the responsibility of the
landowner or person in possession or control of the land to properly maintain
all SCMs necessary to meet the requirements of the riparian buffer rules.
(Ord. No. 24-021, § 1, passed 4-11-2024)
SEC. 9-9-10 NITROGEN AND PHOSPHORUS LOADING RATE TARGETS.
   (A)   The project shall meet one or a combination of the following for the
entire project area:
      (1)   Projects draining to the Tar-Pamlico river basin shall meet a
nitrogen loading rate target of 4.0 pounds per acre per year (lbs/ac/yr) and a
phosphorus stormwater loading target of 0.8 lbs/ac/yr; or
      (2)   Projects draining to the Neuse river basin shall meet a nitrogen
loading rate target of 3.6 pounds per acre per year (lbs/ac/yr). Projects
draining to the Neuse river basin are not required to meet phosphorus loading
rate targets; or
      (3)   Projects meet "runoff volume match" as defined in 15A NCAC 02H
.1002.
   (B)   The project area used for nutrient calculation and stormwater
requirements includes the site area less any existing built-upon area. The
project density used for determining stormwater requirements is the amount of
built-upon area subject to this chapter at project completion divided by the
project area.
   (C)   The developer shall determine the nitrogen and phosphorus loading
generated from the project area without engineered stormwater controls, and
determine the needed nitrogen or phosphorus reduction by using the approved
accounting tool.
   (D)   The nitrogen and phosphorus loading standards in this chapter are
supplemental to, not replacements for, stormwater standards otherwise required
by federal, state or local law, including without limitation any riparian
buffer requirements applicable to the location of the development. This
includes, without limitation, the riparian buffer protection requirements of
15A NCAC 02B .0714, 15A NCAC 02B .0734 and 15A NCAC 02B .0295.
(Ord. No. 24-021, § 1, passed 4-11-2024)
SEC. 9-9-11 CONTROL AND TREATMENT OF RUNOFF VOLUME.
   (A)   All projects not subject to more stringent standards shall meet the
stormwater system design requirements set forth in 15A NCAC 02H .1003. Projects
shall use a project density threshold of 24% built-upon area or greater,
whereupon high-density stormwater design is required. All engineered stormwater
controls will meet the standards set in the Manual of Standard Designs and
Details (MSDD) and the state's Minimum Design Criteria (MDC), 15A NCAC 02H
.1050 through .1062.
   (B)   Where high-density stormwater design is required, stormwater systems
shall meet the standards set forth in 15A NCAC 02H .1003(3) and be designed to
control and treat the volume of runoff generated from all built-upon area by
one inch of rainfall or equivalent runoff volume in one or more primary SCMs or
combination of primary and secondary SCMs that provides equal or better
treatment. These projects may utilize offsite SCMs dedicated to treating an
area encompassing the project.
   (C)   Phased projects may have a combination of low-density and high-density
phases.
   (D)   Low density projects or phases may be expanded and redeveloped to
increase to high-density at which time the high-density requirements in
subsection (B) of this section shall apply to the project or phase.
(Ord. No. 24-021, § 1, passed 4-11-2024)
SEC. 9-9-12 METHODS TO MEET NUTRIENT CONTROL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Projects subject to this chapter shall meet nitrogen and phosphorus
loading targets through one or a combination of the following methods:
      (1)   Projects may reduce nitrogen or phosphorus through any combination
of SCMs treating runoff on the site or in an approved offsite regional
stormwater control measure. The developer shall calculate the nitrogen and
phosphorus reduction provided by these controls using the approved accounting
tool.
      (2)   Sufficient nitrogen or phosphorus reduction needs not provided by
SCMs serving the project shall be acquired prior to construction through the
use of permanent nutrient offset credits pursuant to the Nutrient Offset Credit
Trading Rule, 15A NCAC 02B .0703. The Stormwater Administrator shall issue a
letter, as condition of the approval, that documents the needed nitrogen or
phosphorus credits and the location of the project with relation to hydrologic
unit code (HUC). All offset measures permitted by this chapter shall meet the
requirements of 15A NCAC 02B .0703.
      (3)   Proposed development undertaken by a local government solely as a
public road expansion or public sidewalk project, or proposed development
subject to the jurisdiction of the Surface Transportation Board, may meet
nitrogen and phosphorus reduction needs for the project entirely through the
use of permanent nutrient offset credits pursuant to the Nutrient Offset Credit
Trading Rule, 15A NCAC 02B .0703.
   (B)   Permanent nutrient offset credits shall be acquired pursuant to G.S.
143-214.26 and 15A NCAC 02B .0703 prior to the start of construction of the
project through one of the following methods:
      (1)   A private nutrient bank;
      (2)   Offsite offset provided by the developer and approved by the
Stormwater Administrator;
      (3)   An offset option provided by the City of Greenville;
      (4)   Payment into the Riparian Buffer Restoration Fund established in
G.S. 143-214.21.
   (C)   Excess permanent nutrient offset credits acquired beyond what is
required for the project may not be applied to any other project.
(Ord. No. 24-021, § 1, passed 4-11-2024)
SEC. 9-9-13 IMPERVIOUS SURFACE AVERAGING.
   Impervious surface averaging allows development plans for two or more
noncontiguous parcels to be submitted together and treated as a single project
for density and nutrient loading calculations in order to meet the requirements
of this chapter.
   (A)   Application to use the impervious surface averaging option shall be
included with the submittal of the stormwater management permit application.
Application for impervious surface averaging shall include a plat showing the
two (or more) properties and a binding legal agreement to be reviewed and
approved by the Stormwater Administrator, and recorded prior to the issuance of
a building permit. The Stormwater Administrator has the power to authorize, in
specific cases, impervious surface averaging for projects that meet the
criteria outlined below. The city, in its sole discretion, may accept or reject
a proposed paired-parcel, averaged-impervious surface development.
   (B)   The total amount of development (built-upon area) allowed for the
paired parcels taken together cannot exceed the amount of built-upon area that
would be allowed if the parcels were developed separately.
   (C)   Parcels being submitted for approval under this provision shall be
submitted for development approval as a single proposal and shall be located in
the same watershed basin.
   (D)   Parcels to be used in pairs can be located throughout the city, unless
specifically prohibited herein, according to the following standards:
      (1)   If one of the parcels is located in a water supply watershed
critical area and one is located in a protected area, the critical area parcel
shall not be developed.
      (2)   Impervious surface averaging is not allowed between parcels when
both are in the critical area of a protected watershed.
   (E)   Peak flow requirements in section 9-9-15 must be calculated and
controlled on the developing lot using the area of the developing lot only, so
as to minimize drainage impact on downstream properties.
   (F)   Applicants shall agree to bind themselves and their successors in
title, individually and collectively, to maintain the pattern of development
proposed for so long as the requirements of this section are applicable.
Parties to enforcement of such agreement shall include the city. No such
agreement shall be accepted without approval of the staff attorney as to the
legal sufficiency of the documents involved.
   (G)   The conservation easement must provide the city with standing to
enforce it. The conservation easement, once approved by the Stormwater
Administrator, must be recorded in the Register of Deeds Office, with a
recorded copy provided to the Stormwater Administrator, before a building
permit will be issued for the project.
(Ord. No. 24-021, § 1, passed 4-11-2024)
SEC. 9-9-14 STORMWATER CONTROL MEASURES (SCMS) AND DETENTION FACILITIES.
   (A)   Stormwater control measures and detention facilities in any new
development shall be the entire and sole responsibility of the landowner except
those natural streams, channels, ditches, branches and drainage outfall lines
for which the city has accepted the responsibility for continuous maintenance.
   (B)   All detention facilities, SCMs, and stormwater management plans
required under this chapter shall be evaluated by the Stormwater Administrator
according to the policies, criteria, and information, including technical
specifications and standards and the specific design criteria for each
stormwater practice in the city's Manual of Standard Designs and Details
(MSDD), and the state's Minimum Design Criteria (MDC), 15A NCAC 02H .1050
through .1062. The Stormwater Administrator shall determine whether proposed
engineered stormwater controls will be adequate to meet the requirements of
this chapter.
   (C)   Stormwater control measures that are designed, constructed, and
maintained in accordance with the criteria and specifications in the MSDD and
MDC will be presumed to meet the minimum water quality and quantity performance
standards of this chapter. Whenever an applicant proposes to utilize a practice
or practices not designed and constructed in accordance with the criteria and
specifications in the MSDD and MDC, the applicant shall have the burden of
demonstrating that the practice(s) will satisfy the minimum water quality and
quantity performance standards of this chapter. The Stormwater Administrator
may require the applicant to provide the documentation, calculations, and
examples necessary for the Stormwater Administrator to determine whether such
an affirmative showing is made.
   (D)   Disconnected impervious surface as defined in Chapter C-10 of the
NCDEQ Stormwater Design Manual and MDC defined in 15A NCAC 02H .1060 are
prohibited for use as an approved SCM for single-family developments. For other
than single-family developments these SCMs must meet all required MDC in 15A
NCAC 02H .1050 and .1060 as well as the following:
      (1)   A recorded easement on the vegetated area and maintenance access to
a public right-of-way;
      (2)   Drawings that show any roof ridgelines and the drainage area to
each SCM vegetated area;
      (3)   Easements and inspections shall not include the area of building
gutters and downspouts;
      (4)   No other landscaping, equipment, fences, or improvements, with
exception of subsurface utilities, are allowed within the SCM easement; and
      (5)   The design engineer shall certify on record drawing that the
drainage area for each SCM vegetated area is per design.
   (E)   The Stormwater Administrator shall have the authority to disallow,
limit, or include additional necessary design criteria for any type of
detention facility or SCM that he or she has determined to be ineffective,
unmaintainable, or unenforceable in the City of Greenville.
(Ord. No. 24-021, § 1, passed 4-11-2024)
SEC. 9-9-15 ATTENUATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   At a minimum, new development and redevelopment as described in
section
9-9-5 shall not result in a net increase in peak flow leaving the site from
pre-development conditions for the one-year, five-year and ten-year, six-hour
storm events.
   (B)   New development and redevelopment, as described in section
9-9-5, in areas at special risk with well-documented water quantity problems as
determined by the Stormwater Administrator, shall not result in a net increase
in peak flow leaving the site from pre-development conditions for the 25-year,
six-hour storm event.
   (C)   Peak flow leaving the site from pre-development conditions for the
one-year, five-year, ten-year and 25-year, six-hour storm events shall be
calculated, and the plan shall be prepared and approved using the standards of
the City Engineer, as set forth in the city's Manual of Standard Designs and
Details and stormwater management program.
   (D)   The drainage plan as required by this section shall include but not be
limited to a site plan showing existing proposed buildings, storm drainage
facilities, ground cover, site construction plans with grading plan, and
drainage system; drainage facility design data including area map, engineering
calculations, area of impervious cover and total land area.
   (E)   In the event that literal interpretation of this section creates an
undue hardship, the applicant may appeal to the Board of Adjustment for a
variance in whole or in part from this section.
   (F)   No part of this section shall be applied to structures existing prior
to the effective date of this section nor shall existing impervious ground
cover be used in the calculation of runoff.
   (G)   New development and redevelopment, as described in section
9-9-5 is deemed compliant with the requirements of this section when meeting
the conditions of an approved public/private partnership development agreement
subject to G.S. 160D-1001.
(Ord. No. 24-021, § 1, passed 4-11-2024)
SEC. 9-9-16 PAYMENT IN LIEU OF ATTENUATION.
   (A)   Where a proposed development results in a net increase in peak flow
from pre-development conditions, the applicant may choose to make a one-time
payment of fees in lieu of required attenuation improvements if one or more of
the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The increase in peak flow between pre- and post-development
conditions does not exceed 10% (note that this exemption makes it easier to
conduct redevelopment activities); or
      (2)   The development occurs in a part of a drainage basin in which no
study, analysis, or watershed master plan identifies any component of the
stormwater drainage system downstream of the development is insufficient to
meet the desired level of service as determined by the city. The Engineering
Department will maintain and publish a map identifying the areas ineligible for
the payment of fees in lieu.
   (B)   Payment of fees shall be in accordance with the manual of fees adopted
by City Council and determined based upon the impact of the development to peak
flow from pre-development conditions.
   (C)   All fees collected by the city pursuant to this section shall be
deposited in the stormwater management fund and used only for the design and
installation of stormwater capital improvements.
   (D)   Full payment shall be made prior to the issuance of any building
permit for any use covered by the development plan.
   (E)   The map of areas ineligible to use the payment of fees in lieu of
attenuation will be regularly updated as updates or additional watershed master
plans are conducted or as improvements are made to the stormwater drainage
system.
      (1)   The developer may apply to amend the boundaries of the published
map by submitting a request and sufficient survey to the Stormwater
Administrator.
      (2)   The Stormwater Administrator will approve, deny, or request
additional information for the application to amend the map within 30 days.
      (3)   If the requested amendment is approved, the map shall be updated
and published to reflect the amendment.
      (4)   If the requested amendment is denied, the developer may file an
appeal pursuant to section
9-9-26.
(Ord. No. 24-021, § 1, passed 4-11-2024)
SEC. 9-9-17 DRAINAGE SYSTEM RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Storm drainage systems shall be the entire and sole responsibility of
the property owner except those natural streams, channels, ditches, branches
and drainage outfall lines that carry public runoff for which the city has
accepted the responsibility for continuous maintenance. All new subdivisions
shall have drainage systems installed by the developer in accordance with Title
9, Chapter 5 of this Code.
   (B)   Any drainage ditch in a new development that conveys public runoff and
will require a 48-inch diameter or smaller pipe must either be piped or
designed and constructed to the standards as established in 15A NCAC 2H .1003
(2)(c) for vegetated conveyances as part of a low-density development or 15A
NCAC 2H .1061 for treatment swales. The required pipe size shall be as
determined by the engineer for the developer and approved by the Stormwater
Administrator.
   (C)   Vegetated conveyances subject to 15A NCAC 2H .1003(2) shall be the
entire and sole responsibility of the property owner and shall have a
maintenance plan and agreement on file in the office of the Stormwater
Administrator per section
9-9-20.
(Ord. No. 24-021, § 1, passed 4-11-2024)
SEC. 9-9-18 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Any person may petition the Board of Adjustment for a variance
granting permission to use the person's land in a manner otherwise prohibited
by this chapter. Requests for a variance to the Board of Adjustment shall be
made pursuant to Title 9, Article 5 of this Code.
   (B)   For all proposed major and minor variances from the requirements of
this chapter, the Board of Adjustment shall make findings of fact in accordance
with the procedures of G.S. 160D-406 showing that:
      (1)   There are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships that
prevent compliance with the strict letter of this chapter;
      (2)   The variance is in harmony with the general purpose and intent of
the local watershed protection ordinance and preserves its spirit; and
      (3)   In granting the variance, the project will ensure equal or better
protection of waters of the state than the requirements of 15A NCAC 02B .0711
or 15A NCAC 02B .0731, and that the public safety and welfare have been assured
and substantial justice has been done.
   (C)   In the case of a request for a minor variance, the Board of Adjustment
may vary or modify any of the regulations or provisions of this chapter so that
the spirit of this chapter shall be observed, public safety and welfare
secured, and substantial justice done may impose reasonable and appropriate
conditions and safeguards upon any variance it grants.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment may attach conditions to the major or minor
variance approval that support the purpose of this chapter. If the variance
request qualifies as a major variance, and the Board of Adjustment decides in
favor of granting the major variance, the Board shall then prepare a
preliminary record of the hearing and submit it to the North Carolina
Environmental Management Commission for review and approval. If the Commission
approves the major variance or approves with conditions or stipulations added,
then the Commission shall prepare a Commission decision which authorizes the
City of Greenville to issue a final decision which would include any conditions
or stipulations added by the Commission. If the Commission denies the major
variance, then the Commission shall prepare a decision to be sent to the City
of Greenville. The Board of Adjustment shall prepare a final decision denying
the major variance.
   (E)   Decisions of the Board of Adjustment on requests for a variance shall
be subject to superior court review by proceedings in the nature of certiorari.
(Ord. No. 24-021, § 1, passed 4-11-2024)
SEC. 9-9-19 SCM ACCEPTANCE AND WARRANTY.
   (A)   Upon initial construction inspection and approval by the Stormwater
Administrator, the detention facility or SCM is warrantied and maintained by
the developer for a minimum of 12 months. During this time any repairs or
maintenance shall be the responsibility of the developer.
   (B)   Not sooner than 11 months after initial construction inspection and
approval, the developer may request the Stormwater Administrator to perform a
warranty inspection of the detention facility or SCM. The Stormwater
Administrator shall perform the warranty inspection within 30 days of the
request. If the Stormwater Administrator fails to perform the warranty
inspection within 30 days of the request, the city shall assume one-time
responsibility for any required maintenance or repairs to the detention
facility or SCM in order to return it to "like-new condition".
   (C)   The Stormwater Administrator will notify the developer of any required
maintenance or repairs to the detention facility or SCM. The developer shall
have 90 days to perform the required maintenance or repairs or to submit a
written plan of action subject to approval of the Stormwater Administrator.
Upon completing all required maintenance or repairs, the developer shall
request a reinspection of the detention facility or SCM subject to subsection
(B) of this section.
   (D)   If the Stormwater Administrator, upon inspection, finds the detention
facility or SCM to be in "like-new condition", he or she shall issue a warranty
inspection approval notice at which time the developer may choose to transfer
ownership and maintenance responsibilities to a permanent owner such as a home
owners’ association or property owners’ association.
(Ord. No. 24-021, § 1, passed 4-11-2024)
SEC. 9-9-20 SCM INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Each detention facility, vegetated conveyance, or SCM shall have a
maintenance plan and agreement on file in the office of the Stormwater
Administrator. Maintenance plans must be on file prior to construction and
shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Owner's name or names;
      (2)   Owner's mailing address;
      (3)   Deed book, page number or other recording information for the land
containing the detention facility or SCM(s);
      (4)   Any easements for maintenance, ingress, egress and regress to the
detention facility or SCM(s);
      (5)   A description of the detention facility or SCM(s);
      (6)   Maintenance recommended for the detention facility or SCM(s) to
achieve the maximum effect; and
      (7)   Notarized signature of the owner of the detention facility or SCM
(s) and statement that the owner understands the requirements of the rules and
regulations for the detention facility or SCM(s).
   (B)   Each detention facility or SCM shall be maintained as required in the
maintenance plan as to allow the detention facility or SCM to achieve its
maximum effect. Maintenance is to be performed as needed.
   (C)   Maintenance of the detention facility or SCM includes maintaining
access for the stormwater to reach and leave the detention facility or SCM,
maintenance of the detention facility or SCM structure itself, and maintaining
access to the detention facility or SCM for the purpose of inspections,
maintenance and repairs.
   (D)   An annual maintenance and inspection report completed by a qualified
professional shall be maintained by the owner for each detention facility or
SCM in accordance with the operation and maintenance agreement submitted in the
initial plan submittal. The annual report will describe the maintenance and
repair activities of the subject year, including copies of inspection and
repair logs, and note any needed modifications to the repair plan for the
following year. Annual reports shall be provided to the Stormwater
Administrator annually upon completion and kept on record for a minimum of five
years. Records of annual and any other inspections required by the Operation
and Maintenance agreement shall be made available to the city upon request.
   (E)   Annual inspection reports shall be submitted to the city in the form
and method as determined by the Stormwater Administrator.
   (F)   If repairs or maintenance to the detention facility or SCM is
required, the qualified professional will the maintenance required on the
inspection report provided to the owner and the city. The owner will have 90
days from the receipt of the report to bring the detention facility or SCM into
proper working order and provide a re-inspection report showing the detention
facility or SCM is compliant.
   (G)   The qualified professional shall certify that the detention facility
or SCM is fully functioning and operating as designed and intended.
   (H)   If any person, having been ordered to perform such maintenance, fails,
neglects or refuses to perform the maintenance within 90 days from receipt of
the order, the Director of Engineering shall, at his or her own discretion,
have employees of the city or other designated persons go upon said premises
and perform the necessary maintenance.
   (I)   The cost of repairs and work completed by the city shall be the
responsibility of the owner. The city will submit a statement of charges to be
reimbursed by the owner. The owner shall have 30 days to remit payment.
   (J)   All detention facilities or SCM(s) shall be inspected by the city at
least once every three years in addition to the inspections performed by the
owner's qualified professional. This inspection by the city will be to verify
consistency with inspections performed by the qualified professionals.
   (K)   The city will provide the owner and his/her qualified professional the
inspection report and detail any required repairs or maintenance. Where there
are differences in the inspection report from the qualified professional's
inspection and the city's inspection, the city's inspection and list of
required repairs and maintenance shall take precedence.
(Ord. No. 24-021, § 1, passed 4-11-2024)
SEC. 9-9-21 QUALIFIED PROFESSIONAL STATUS.
   (A)   If the Stormwater Administrator determines there to be significant and
major errors or omissions in one or more annual inspection reports provided by
a qualified professional, the Stormwater Administrator shall:
      (1)   Notify the SCM owner and the qualified professional in writing of
the errors or omissions;
      (2)   Offer relevant training and education for the qualified
professional including on-site consultation; and
      (3)   Schedule the subject SCM for additional annual inspections by the
city.
   (B)   If the Stormwater Administrator determines there to be significant and
major errors or omissions in three or more annual inspection reports provided
by a qualified professional, regardless of the particular detention facility or
SCM inspected or the time frame of the inspections, the Stormwater
Administrator shall:
      (1)   Suspend the qualified professional status of the inspector for a
minimum period of 12 months. During this time, inspections from the suspended
individual will not be accepted by the city to comply with the annual
inspection requirement. This suspension applies only to the individual
inspector and not to his or her company or firm.
      (2)   Notify the detention facility or SCM owner(s) and the qualified
professional in writing of the suspension and instructions for status
restoration.
   (C)   An inspector whose qualified professional status has been suspended
may apply to restore his/her qualified professional status only after a minimum
of 12 months and completion of an on-site personalized training with city
staff. The inspector should coordinate scheduling of this training with the
Stormwater Administrator anytime during the suspension as city staff are
available.
   (D)   Once qualified professional status has been restored to an inspector,
the city will audit the next three inspection reports submitted by that
qualified professional to ensure accuracy and consistency. If the Stormwater
Administrator determines there to be significant and major errors or omissions
in one or more of these three reports, the inspector shall be re-suspended and
shall repeat the restoration per this section.
   (E)   For repeated, fraudulent, or egregious errors or omissions submitted
by a qualified professional, the Stormwater Administrator shall have the
authority to permanently revoke his/her qualified professional status and/or
file a report with any applicable licensing or certifying board or agency.
(Ord. No. 24-021, § 1, passed 4-11-2024)
SEC. 9-9-22 DRAINAGE ASSISTANCE PROJECTS LOCATED OUTSIDE OF CITY-OWNED RIGHTS-
OF-WAY.
   (A)   Piping assistance. The city will participate with property owners in
the installation of storm drains crossing private property in other than new
subdivisions within the city's corporate limits under the following conditions:
      (1)   The storm drain to be installed will carry public runoff;
stormwater discharged from an existing city or state street or streets
dedicated for public street purposes, including alleys, and accepted for
maintenance by the city or state. Storm drainage systems not meeting this
requirement are the responsibility of the property owner(s) and the city will
not participate in the installation of such storm drains.
      (2)   An application for the installation of storm drains must be signed
by 100% of the owners of the affected property within the limits of the
proposed project and submitted to the Stormwater Administrator.
      (3)   The property owners must dedicate a drainage easement of a width,
length, and type as specified by the Stormwater Administrator. The dedication
of such easement will be at no cost to the city.
      (4)   The shortest distance in which the city will participate in the
installation of storm drainage will be 300 linear feet; any shorter distances
than 300 linear feet must be deemed feasible by the Stormwater Administrator
before city participation.
      (5)   All pipe sizes, structural accessories, discharge points and other
specifications shall be as determined by the Stormwater Administrator.
      (6)   The city will furnish all labor and equipment and the adjoining
property owners will pay for all materials for construction. These materials
shall be as determined necessary by the Stormwater Administrator and shall
include headwalls, manholes, catch basins and all other structures normal to a
complete storm drainage system. All monies for materials must be deposited by
property owners before construction is started.
      (7)   All authorized work shall be performed by the city, its agents and/
or contractors. The city will direct all necessary activities including but not
limited to design, engineering, contracting, and construction.
      (8)   Nothing in this subsection (A) shall be construed, interpreted or
applied in a manner to mean that the city will participate in any way in the
construction of any box culvert or other structure to be built or constructed
in place. The piping of streams shall be restricted in all instances to that
drainage where pre-cast or preassembled pipe will be of sufficient capacity, as
calculated by the Stormwater Administrator, for the piping and enclosing herein
mentioned and contemplated.
      (9)   Cost for each property owner shall be determined by dividing the
total cost of materials by the total footage of property owners adjoining the
proposed pipe locations directly and multiplying the result by the footage of
each individual owner to determine his share of the cost.
      (10)   All storm drainage construction on private property shall be done
on a scheduled basis so as not to interfere with other city projects and then
only as budgeted funds of the city are available.
      (11)   The city will not participate in the construction of any storm
drainage systems which will require a pipe size larger than 48 inches due to
the greatly increased cost of labor, equipment and engineering required due to
the use of box culverts, paved channels and other types of solutions.
      (12)   The city will not participate in the piping of jurisdictional
streams.
   (B)   Bank stabilization assistance. The city will stabilize banks on
ditches or streams, both jurisdictional and non-jurisdictional, crossing
private property within the city's corporate limits under the following
conditions:
      (1)   The ditch or non-jurisdictional stream carries public runoff;
stormwater discharged from an existing city or state street or streets
dedicated for public street purposes, including alleys, and accepted for
maintenance by the city or state. Storm drainage systems not meeting this
requirement are the responsibility of the property owner(s) and the city will
not participate in such drainage projects.
      (2)   An application for bank stabilization must be signed by 100% of the
owners of the affected property within the limits of the proposed project and
submitted to the Stormwater Administrator.
      (3)   The property owners must dedicate a drainage easement of a width,
length, and type as specified by the Stormwater Administrator. The dedication
of such easement will be at no cost to the city.
      (4)   Materials and construction methods shall be as determined necessary
by the Stormwater Administrator. All authorized work shall be performed by the
city, its agents and/or contractors. The city will direct all necessary
activities including but not limited to design, engineering, contracting, and
construction.
      (5)   All drainage projects on private property shall be done on a
scheduled basis so as not to interfere with other city projects and then only
as budgeted funds of the city are available.
   (C)   Drainage assistance projects listed in subsections (A) and (B) above
may be funded with stormwater utility funds or other funds provided that all of
the following eligibility criteria are met:
      (1)   The drainage system is not part of a water quality treatment
facility or water quantity control device that was required to be constructed
and maintained as part of an approved development.
      (2)   The drainage system is not located on property which is undergoing
development or redevelopment unless the development/redevelopment project is
funded in part by other city funds.   
      (3)   The project shall be the most cost effective, reasonable and
practical alternative to correct the existing problem, as determined by the
Stormwater Administrator. Any excess costs above the determined most cost
effective, reasonable and practical alternative shall be borne entirely by the
property owner. Design criteria shall meet, but are not limited to, the
following criteria:
         (a)   The proposed project shall meet current city stormwater design
standards to the maximum extent practical;
         (b)   Existing ditches or non-jurisdictional streams shall not be
piped unless engineering reasons require such work or significant cost savings
would be realized; and
         (c)   Jurisdictional streams and their associated buffers shall be
protected to the maximum extent practical.
      (4)   The application of the above factors and the determination as to
eligibility for stormwater utility funding or other funding shall be made by
the Stormwater Administrator. Property owners may appeal any decision by the
Stormwater Administrator to the Director of Engineering. Property owners may
appeal any decision by the Director of Engineering to the City Manager. If
property owners are not satisfied with the decision of the City Manager,
property owners may appeal any decision by the City Manager to City Council.
   (D)   No action or inaction of the city pursuant to the policy established
by this section shall impose upon the city, its agents, officers or employees
any responsibility of liability of any kind, past or future, relating to any
person or property. The petitioners shall agree to covenant to and hold the
city harmless from any death, personal injury or property damage resulting from
the work. No such action by the city shall be considered as a taking or
appropriation of any stream, drain or ditch as a part of the city's drainage
system.
   (E)   The conditions set forth in this section shall be binding on the
heirs, successors, assigns and grantees of the property owners.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed, interpreted or applied in
such manner as to aid or assist in the subdivision or development of property
in the city. The policy set out herein shall be applicable only to those
properties for which no new subdivision or development is anticipated or
planned.
   (G)   The intent of this section is not to transfer responsibility or
liability to the city for drainage system components on property not owned by
the city that carry stormwater. Rather, it is to establish criteria and
priorities to be used when making available funds for work on drainage system
components located outside of city-owned rights-of-way.
   (H)   City participation in work on drainage system components outside of
the right-of-way is limited to the extent to which funds are available for such
purpose and no entitlement to receive funds for such work arises from this
section.
(Ord. No. 24-021, § 1, passed 4-11-2024)
SEC. 9-9-23 ACCEPTANCE OF MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY FOR OPEN CHANNELS BY THE
CITY.
   (A)   The city accepts the responsibility for the maintenance and upkeep of
all SCMs, detention facilities and other components of the stormwater drainage
system, located within a city right-of-way, or city property within the city's
corporate limits and not within a state right-of-way.
   (B)   The responsibility of the city for the maintenance of streams, located
within the city's corporate limits and not within a state right-of-way,
includes only the removal of trees and debris that block the flow of the
stream. The city will only remove that portion of a trees and debris that is
blocking or is an imminent threat to block stream flow. Property owners are
responsible for maintaining the vegetation to the standards established by the
state (riparian buffer rule). Removal of trash in a stream is the property
owner's responsibility including in any adjoining right-of-way.
(Ord. No. 24-021, § 1, passed 4-11-2024)
SEC. 9-9-24 ILLICIT DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Illicit discharges.
      (1)   Except as provided for below in this section, no person shall cause
or allow the discharge, emission, disposal, pouring or pumping (directly or
indirectly) of any fluid, solid, gas or other substance, other than stormwater,
to any stormwater drainage conveyance, the municipal separate storm sewer
system or to the waters of the state, or upon the land in such proximity to
such waters (such that the substance is likely to reach a stormwater drainage
conveyance, the MS4, or the waters of the state), The following non-stormwater
discharges are deemed permitted and do not result in a violation of this
section, provided that they do not significantly impact water quality:
         (a)   Dechlorinated filter backwash and drainage associated with
swimming pools;
         (b)   Filter backwash and drainage associated with raw water intake
screening and filtering devices;
         (c)   Condensate from residential or commercial air conditioning;
         (d)   Residential and charity vehicle wash water;
         (e)   Flushing and hydrostatic testing water associated with utility
distribution systems;
         (f)   Discharges associated with emergency removal and treatment
activities for hazardous materials, authorized by the federal, state or local
government on-scene coordinator;
         (g)   Uncontaminated ground water (including the collection or pumping
of springs, wells, or rising ground water and ground water generated by well
construction or other construction activities);
         (h)   Collected infiltrated stormwater from foundation or footing
drains;
         (i)   Collected ground water and infiltrated stormwater from basement
or crawl space pumps;
         (j)   Irrigation water;
         (k)   Street wash water;
         (l)   Flows from firefighting;
         (m)   Discharges from the pumping or draining of natural watercourses
or waterbodies;
         (n)   Unmodified potable water associated with flushing and cleaning
of stormwater conveyances;
         (o)   Wash water from the cleaning of the exterior of buildings,
including gutters, provided that the discharge does not pose an environmental
or health threat; and
         (p)   Other non-stormwater discharges for which a valid NPDES
discharge permit has been approved and issued by Department of Environmental
Management, and provided that any such discharges to the municipal separate
storm sewer system shall be authorized by the city.
      (2)   Prohibited substances include but are not limited to: oil, anti-
freeze, chemicals, animal waste, paints, garbage, sediment, and litter.
   (B)   Exposure of substances to stormwater.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to manage or store any substances,
liquid or solid, in a manner that permits exposure to stormwater if by reason
of its nature, the substance:
         (a)   Is, or has the potential to be, harmful or toxic to human,
animal, or plant health;
         (b)   Degrades or impairs water quality;
         (c)   Interferes or may interfere with free and rapid flow of surface
water; or
         (d)   Adversely affects the State of North Carolina classification of
the stream into which the stormwater drainage system discharges.
      (2)   Substances defined in subsection (B)(1) placed outdoors must be
stored under a shelter or otherwise protected from being allowed into the
stormwater runoff.
   (C)   Illicit connections.
      (1)   Connections to the municipal separate storm sewer system or
stormwater drainage system that allow the discharge of non-stormwater, other
than the exclusions described in subsection (A) above, are unlawful. Prohibited
connections include but are not limited to: floor drains, waste water from
washing machines or    sanitary sewers, wash water from commercial vehicle
washing or steam cleaning, and waste water from septic systems.
      (2)   Where it is determined that the connection may result in the
discharge of hazardous materials or may pose an immediate threat to health and
safety, or is likely to result in immediate injury and harm to real or personal
property, natural resources, wildlife or habitat; or was made in violation of
any applicable regulation or ordinance, the Stormwater Administrator or his or
her designee shall designate the time within which the connection shall be
removed. In setting the time limit for compliance, the city shall take into
consideration:
         (a)   The quantity and complexity of the work;
         (b)   The consequences of delay;
         (c)   The potential harm to the environment, to the public health, and
to public and private property; and
         (d)   The cost of remedying the damage.
   (D)   Spills.
      (1)   Spills or leaks of polluting substances discharged to, or having
the potential to be indirectly transported to the stormwater drainage system,
shall be contained, controlled, collected and removed promptly. All affected
areas shall be restored to their preexisting condition.
      (2)   Persons associated with the spill or leak shall immediately notify
the City Fire Chief or his or her designee of all spills or leaks of polluting
substances. Notification shall not relieve any person of any expenses related
to the restoration, loss, damage or any other liability which may be incurred
as a result of the spill or leak, nor shall such notification relieve any
person from other liability which may be imposed by state or other law.
   (E)   Nuisance. Illicit discharges and illicit connections which occur or
exist within the city limits are hereby found, deemed and declared to be
dangerous or prejudiced to the public health or public safety and are found,
deemed and declared to be public nuisances. Such public nuisances may also be
abated in accordance with the procedures set forth in section
12-3-4.
(Ord. No. 24-021, § 1, passed 4-11-2024)
SEC. 9-9-25 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Authority to enter.
      (1)   Any city personnel or contractor, authorized by the Stormwater
Administrator shall be permitted to enter upon public or private property for
the purposes of observation, inspection, sampling, monitoring, testing,
surveying and measuring for compliance. Should the owner or occupant of any
property refuse to permit such reasonable access, the Stormwater Administrator
or his or her designee shall proceed to obtain an administrative search warrant
pursuant to G.S. 15-27.2 or its successor.
      (2)   No person shall obstruct, hamper or interfere with any such
representative while carrying out his or her official duties. For the purpose
of enforcing this chapter, the Stormwater Administrator or any employee so
designated by him or her may at any time enter upon a property to inspect or
repair any part of the stormwater system.
   (B)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter, or
rules or orders adopted or issued pursuant to this chapter, or who initiates or
continues a land-disturbing activity for which a plan is required except in
accordance with the terms, conditions and provisions of an approved plan, is
subject to a civil penalty. The maximum civil penalty for a violation of this
chapter is $10,000 per violation per day. Each day of continuing violation
shall constitute a separate violation. A person may also be assessed a one-time
civil penalty of up to $10,000 for the day the violation is first detected
      (2)   In determining the amount of the penalty, the Stormwater
Administrator shall consider:
         (a)   The degree and extent of harm to the environment, the public
health, and public and private property;
         (b)   The cost of remedying the damage;
         (c)   The duration of the violation;
         (d)   Whether the violation was willful;
         (e)   The prior record of the person responsible for the violation in
complying or failing to comply with this chapter;
         (f)   The costs of enforcement to the public; and   
         (g)   The amount of money saved by the violator through his, her or
its noncompliance.
      (3)   Civil penalties shall be assessed by the City Engineer or his or
her designee. No penalty shall be assessed until the person alleged to be in
violation is served written notice of the violation by registered mail,
certified mail-return receipt requested, or personal service. Refusal to accept
the notice shall not relieve the violator of the obligation to pay the penalty.
The notice shall describe the violation with particularity and specify the
measures needed to come into compliance. The notice shall designate the time
within which the measures must be completed. In setting the time limit for
compliance, the city shall take into consideration:
         (a)   The quantity and complexity of the work;
         (b)   The consequences of delay;
         (c)   The potential harm to the environment, the public health, and
public and private property; and
         (d)   The cost of remedying the damage.
      (4)   The notice shall warn that failure to correct the violation within
the specified time period may result in the assessment of additional civil
penalty and/or other enforcement action. If after the allotted time period has
expired, and the violation has not been corrected, the penalty shall be
assessed from the date the violation was first detected and each day of
continuing violation thereafter shall constitute a separate violation under
this section.
      (5)   The Stormwater Administrator shall make written demand for payment
upon the person in violation. If the payment is not received or equitable
settlement reached within 30 days after demand for payment is made, the matter
shall be referred to the City Attorney for institution of a civil action in the
name of the city, in the appropriate division of the general court of justice
in Pitt County for recovering the penalty.
   (C)   Stop-work order. Whenever the City Engineer has a reasonable cause to
believe that any person is violating or threatening to violate this chapter,
rule, regulation, order duly adopted or issued pursuant to this chapter or
making a connection to a stormwater conveyance or stormwater conveyance system
other than in accordance with the terms, conditions, and provisions of
approval, the city may, either before or after the institution of any other
action or proceeding authorized by the code issue a stop-work order. The stop-
work order shall be in writing and directed to the person doing the work. The
stop-work order shall state the specific work to be stopped, the specific
reason(s) for the stoppage, and the condition(s) under which the work may be
resumed. Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a separate violation of
this chapter subject to civil penalty.
   (D)   Injunctive relief.
      (1)   Whenever the City Engineer has a reasonable cause to believe that
any person is violating or threatening to violate this chapter, rule,
regulation, order duly adopted or issued pursuant to this chapter or making a
connection to a stormwater conveyance or stormwater conveyance system other
than in accordance with the terms, conditions, and provisions of approval, the
city may, either before or after the institution of any other action or
proceeding authorized by the code, institute a civil action in the name of the
city for injunctive relief to restrain and abate the violation or threatened
violation.
      (2)   The institution of an action for injunctive relief under subsection
(C) shall not relieve any party to such proceeding from any further civil or
criminal penalty prescribed for violations of this Code.
   (E)   Criminal penalties. Any person who knowingly or willfully violates any
provision of this chapter, rule, regulation, order duly adopted or issued
pursuant to this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine
not to exceed $500 or imprisonment for not longer than 30 days. Each violation
shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 24-021, § 1, passed 4-11-2024)
SEC. 9-9-26 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any aggrieved person affected by any decision, order, requirement,
civil penalty assessment, or determination relating to the interpretation or
application of this chapter made by the Stormwater Administrator may contest
the decision by submitting a written request for a review of the decision by
the Stormwater Administrator to the Director of Engineering within 15 days
after receipt of the notice of decision. Upon receipt of the written request,
the Stormwater Administrator shall confer with the Director of Engineering
concerning the decision; and after the conference, the Director of Engineering
shall notify the aggrieved person within ten days after receipt of the written
request for a review whether the decision has been upheld or modified.
   (B)   Any aggrieved person not satisfied with the action of the Director of
Engineering, may file an appeal to the Board of Adjustment within 30 days. In
the case of requests for review of proposed civil penalties for violations of
this chapter, the Board of Adjustment shall make a final decision on the
request for review within 90 days of the date the request for review is filed.
   (C)   Appeals requests to the Board of Adjustment shall be made pursuant to
Title 9, Article 5 of the city code. The Stormwater Administrator shall
transmit to the Board of Adjustment all documents constituting the record on
which the decision appealed from was taken.
   (D)   Decisions of the Board of Adjustment shall be subject to superior
court review by proceedings in the nature of certiorari.
(Ord. No. 24-021, § 1, passed 4-11-2024)
TITLE 10
TRANSPORTATION AND TRAFFIC
   
Chapter 1.   Buses and Mass Transit Systems
   
Chapter 2.   Traffic and Parking Regulations
   
Chapter 3.   Motor Vehicle Tax
CHAPTER 1: BUSES AND MASS TRANSIT SYSTEMS
Section
Article A. General Provisions
   
10-1-1   Definition
   
10-1-2   Franchise required
   
10-1-3   Smoking tobacco products or consuming alcoholic beverages on city
buses
Article B. Certificates of Convenience and Necessity
   
10-1-11   Required
   
10-1-12   Application
   
10-1-13   Investigation
   
10-1-14   Hearing
   
10-1-15   Burden of proof to be upon the applicant
   
10-1-16   Proof of inspection
   
10-1-17   Issuance
   
10-1-18   Factors to be considered by City Council
   
10-1-19   Agreement with the city required
   
10-1-20   Time limit on start of operations
   
10-1-21   Transferability
   
10-1-22   Revocation
Cross-reference:
   Failure to pay fare, see §
11-1-2
   Liability insurance for vehicles transporting passengers for remuneration,
see §
11-1-1
   Regulation of parades, see §§
11-2-1—
11-2-13
Editor’s note:
   Ord. No. 98-136, § 2, repealed § 10-1-2 dealing with the Public
Transportation Commission in its entirety. Section 10-2-12 was also amended by
Ord. No. 98-136, § 3, deleting the Parking Authority. A new Public
Transportation and Parking Commission was established by Ord. No. 98-136, § 4
and can be found in
Chapter 3 of Title 2.
   Former § 10-1-3 was repealed by Ord. No. 98-136, § 2, dated Nov. 9, 1998.
   Section 10-1-5 was deleted at the request of the city.
Statutory reference:
   Operation of bus lines and mass transit systems as public enterprises
authorized, see G.S. 160A-311 et seq.
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 10-1-1 DEFINITION.
   (A)   “Regularly scheduled bus lines” and “mass transit systems” shall be
defined as those bus lines and mass transit systems which either charge a fee
for rides or operate within the city on a regularly scheduled weekday basis and
whose primary purpose is to serve part of or all of the citizens and residents
of the city.
   (B)   It shall not include:
      (1)   Church buses, recreation buses and like systems of transportation
used primarily for transportation to worship services on a nondaily basis or
used on an irregular or occasional basis, and any bus system operated by East
Carolina University for the exclusive use of East Carolina University students
and for which no funds or fees are received from any outside source except East
Carolina University; and
      (2)   Interstate transportation systems, intrastate transportation
systems or other like systems operated under franchises granted by federal or
state authority.
SEC. 10-1-2 FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   No bus line or mass transit system shall be regularly operated within the
city without first obtaining a franchise from the city.
SEC. 10-1-3 SMOKING TOBACCO PRODUCTS OR CONSUMING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ON CITY
BUSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person while a passenger on any bus
system operated by the city to either:
      (1)   Smoke tobacco products, tobacco-substitute products or products
similarly used or consumed through the aid of a burning or fire consuming
process; or
      (2)   Consume alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   Civil penalty. A violation of any of the provisions of this section
shall subject the violator to a civil penalty by way of a civil citation in an
amount of $100.
      (1)   Appeals; payment of civil penalty. Unless appealed in accordance
with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, a civil penalty
assessed for a violation of any provision of this section must be paid to and
received by the revenue division of the City's Financial Services Department
within five business days from the date of issuance.
      (2)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the City's Financial Services Department, the City may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
         (a)   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
         (b)   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
         (c)   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
         (d)   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
         (e)   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect, satisfy,
or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (3)   Continuing violations. Each day's continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   Criminal penalty for continuing to smoke. Continuing to smoke in
violation of subsection (A)(1) constitutes an infraction, and the person
committing the infraction shall pay a criminal penalty of $50. Conviction of an
infraction under this section has no consequence other than payment of a
penalty. A person smoking in violation of this subsection may not be assessed
court costs.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 3, passed 6-8-2023)
ARTICLE B. CERTIFICATES OF CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY
SEC. 10-1-11 REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bus line or mass transit
system over the streets of the city without having first applied for and
secured from the City Council a certificate of convenience and necessity in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. A certificate of convenience
and necessity shall constitute a franchise from the city for the operation of a
bus line or mass transit system within the city limits, subject to the
provisions of this chapter, for one year, unless a shorter period of time is
specified in the certificate. Applications for renewal shall be filed annually
and hearings conducted thereon as herein provided.
SEC. 10-1-12 APPLICATION.
   Every person desiring to operate a bus line upon and over the streets of the
city shall file, on a form supplied by the City Clerk, an application for a
certificate of convenience and necessity.
SEC. 10-1-13 INVESTIGATION.
   Before making any decision with respect to the issuance of a certificate of
convenience and necessity, pursuant to this chapter, the City Council shall
make a full and complete investigation of all facts in connection with the
application and may subpoena witnesses and make such further investigation as
the City Council shall deem necessary.
SEC. 10-1-14 HEARING.
   Each application pursuant to this chapter for a certificate of convenience
and necessity shall be scheduled for a hearing not later than 60 days after it
is filed. The applicant shall be notified by the City Clerk by mail to the
business address set forth in the application of the date and time of the
hearing, which notification to be sent at least five days before the date set
for the hearing. The City Clerk shall also, within this same time, notify all
persons, who at that time hold certificates of convenience and necessity for
the operation of a bus line within the city, of the date and time of the
hearing and the name of the applicant. In addition, the City Clerk shall cause
to be published at least once in a newspaper of general circulation, at least
ten days before the hearing, a notice setting forth the name of the applicant
and the date and time of the hearing. The cost of this publication shall be
paid for by the applicant at the time the application is filed.
SEC. 10-1-15 BURDEN OF PROOF TO BE UPON THE APPLICANT.
   The burden of proof shall be upon the applicant to establish the existence
of public convenience and necessity for the operation of a bus line specified
in its application and all other facts required for the granting of the
certificate.
SEC. 10-1-16 PROOF OF INSPECTION.
   Before any certificate of convenience and necessity has been issued under
the provisions of this chapter, the applicant shall file proof with the city of
the due inspection of the condition of the buses to be operated by the
applicant.
SEC. 10-1-17 ISSUANCE.
   The City Council shall have the power and it shall be its duty to order
certain certificates of convenience and necessity issued or to refuse to issue
certain certificates of convenience and necessity or to issue certificates of
convenience and necessity for partial exercise only of the privileges sought
and may attach to the exercise of the rights granted only by such certificates
those terms and conditions as in its judgment the public convenience and
necessity require.
 SEC. 10-1-18 FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED BY CITY COUNCIL.
   In determining whether the public convenience and necessity requires the
franchising of any bus line, the City Council shall, among other things, take
into consideration the following factors:
   (A)   Whether or not the public convenience and necessity requires the
proposed or additional bus line service within the city;
   (B)   The financial responsibility of the applicant and the likelihood of
the proposed service being permanent, responsible and satisfactory;
   (C)   The number and condition of equipment;
   (D)   The existing or proposed bus lines being operated by the city and the
demand for increased service, if any, and whether or not the safe use of the
streets by public, both vehicular and pedestrian, would be preserved, and
whether or not adequate provision has been made for off-street parking of such
bus lines;
   (E)   The experience of the applicants in the bus line business; and
   (F)   Any other relevant facts as may be deemed necessary and advisable.
SEC. 10-1-19 AGREEMENT WITH THE CITY REQUIRED.
   When a franchise is granted, the holder of the franchise shall enter into an
agreement with the city providing that the franchise holder shall indemnify,
defend and hold the city free and harmless from all liability for damages,
loss, cost and expenses caused by reason of the operation of the vehicles and
equipment in any bus service or mass transportation system.
SEC. 10-1-20 TIME LIMIT ON START OF OPERATIONS.
   If a certificate of convenience and necessity is granted to an applicant
pursuant to this chapter and the applicant shall fail, in accordance with the
provisions of the certificate, to begin operations within 60 days after the
date of the certificate, then the certificate shall become null and void.
SEC. 10-1-21 TRANSFERABILITY.
   A certificate of convenience and necessity under this chapter is not
transferable without the consent of the City Council. Applications for a permit
to transfer such a certificate shall be filed in the same manner as an
application for a certificate of convenience and necessity. The proceedings
upon the application for a transfer shall be the same as those described for
the issuance of a certificate, except that the question of public convenience
and necessity need not be proved.
SEC. 10-1-22 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The City Council may, at any time after a public hearing, revoke any
certificate of convenience and necessity issued by authority of this chapter
for any one or more of the following causes:
      (1)   Failure to operate the buses specified in the certificate;
      (2)   Failure to maintain motor equipment in good repair;
      (3)   Failure to carry liability insurance or bond as required by the
certificate;
      (4)   Failure to pay to the city taxes or license fees levied or imposed
on the buses;
      (5)   Repeated and persistent violation by the bus drivers of traffic and
safety ordinances or state law relating to alcoholic beverages or prostitution;
      (6)   Failure to report accidents; and
      (7)   Willful failure to comply with any provisions of this chapter or
other ordinances or state laws relating to operation of buses.
   (B)   No certificate of convenience and necessity shall be revoked until the
owner has had at least five days’ notice by personal service or registered mail
of the charges against him or her and of the time and place of hearing. If,
after the hearing, it is found that the owner is guilty of one or more of the
offenses listed herein, the City Council shall have the power to revoke the
certificate or to condition a revocation upon compliance with its order within
any time fixed by it.
CHAPTER 2: TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Article A. Words and Phrases Defined
   
10-2-1   Definitions of words and phrases
Article B. Traffic Regulations
   
10-2-2   Authority of Police, Fire/Rescue Department officials, and parking
enforcement officers
   
10-2-3   Authorized emergency vehicles exempt
   
10-2-4   Schedule of traffic regulations; incorporation by reference
   
10-2-5   No motor vehicles on greenway
   
10-2-6   Obstructions prohibited
   
10-2-7   Brick, stone, or wood; permission required for building materials
   
10-2-8   Sale or display of goods on sidewalks in fire district
   
10-2-9   Vendors of popcorn, peanuts, or merchandise from machines
   
10-2-10   Gasoline tanks and oil pumps on or under sidewalk
   
10-2-11   Games on streets and sidewalks prohibited
   
10-2-12   Building fire or burning trash
   
10-2-13   Injurious wheels and machinery
   
10-2-14   Placing glass or dangerous objects prohibited
   
10-2-15   Towing by solicitation prohibited
   
10-2-16   Towing from private lots; pre-towing notice required
   
10-2-17   Failure to remove and dispose of debris
   
10-2-18   Certain activities prohibited
   
10-2-19   Display of unauthorized signs, signals, or markings
   
10-2-20   Interference with official traffic-control devices, signs or signals
   
10-2-21   Spinning of wheels prohibited
   
10-2-22   Alleys in the Uptown area
   
10-2-23   Cutting across private property to avoid traffic-control devices
   
10-2-24   Standing, sitting, and walking on median prohibited
   
10-2-25   Driving or parking on sidewalks prohibited
   
10-2-26   Clinging to vehicles
Article C. General Parking Regulations
Part 1. General Parking Regulations
   
10-2-100   Application of article
   
10-2-101   Violations deemed prohibited parking
   
10-2-102   Regulations not exclusive
   
10-2-103   Parking close to curb or on operator’s left
   
10-2-104   Vehicles to be properly parked
   
10-2-105   Use of vehicle covers prohibited
   
10-2-106   Parking prohibited at all times on certain streets
   
10-2-107   Stopping or parking of vehicles prohibited generally; no signs
required
   
10-2-108   Production or alteration of parking permit, tag, gate card
prohibited
   
10-2-109   Fire lanes
   
10-2-110   Unauthorized parking in designated handicapped spaces prohibited
Part 2. General Off-Street Parking Regulations
   
10-2-111   Off-street parking regulations
   
10-2-112   Lost ticket fee
Part 3. Designated Parking Areas; General Restrictions
   
10-2-113   Designation and identification of parking areas
Subpart a. Loading Zones
   
10-2-114   Stopping or parking in loading zones
   
10-2-115   Public carrier stops and stands
Subpart b. Time-Limited Parking
   
10-2-116   Time-limited parking zones
   
10-2-117   Time-limited parking controlled by parking meters
   
10-2-118   Time-limited parking controlled by signs
   
10-2-119   Time-limited parking spaces reserved for electric vehicles
   
10-2-120   Computing overtime violations of time-limited parking
   
10-2-121   Separate and continuing violations of time-limited parking
Subpart c. Parking by Permit
   
10-2-122   Uptown area permit parking
   
10-2-123   Residential area parking permit
   
10-2-124   Compliance to signs
   
10-2-125   Special or temporary parking permit
Subpart d. Leased Parking
   
10-2-126   Off-street leased parking areas
Subpart e. Controlled Access Parking
   
10-2-127   Controlled access parking areas
Subpart f. Reserved Parking
   
10-2-128   Reserved parking
   
10-2-129   City officials and employee parking and spaces reserved for city
business
Part 4. Parking of Certain Vehicles
   
10-2-130   Trucks restricted on certain streets
   
10-2-131   Parking of certain vehicles prohibited and restricted
Part 5. Special Events and Temporary Closing of Streets
   
10-2-149   Temporary parking restrictions for special events
   
10-2-150   Temporary closing of streets for special events
Article D. Enforcement, Penalties, Towing, and Appeals
   
10-2-151   Compliance with chapter; enforcement
   
10-2-152   Penalties for violation of chapter
   
10-2-153   Towing of vehicles parked as prohibited
   
10-2-154   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle until all fees fully paid
   
10-2-155   Towing and impounding vehicles with unpaid parking tickets
   
10-2-156   Appeals; Appeal Board
Cross-reference:
   Police-initiated tow service operations, see
Title 11, Chapter 7
   Regulation of parades, see
Title 11, Chapter 2
   Street excavations, see §§
6-2-41—
6-2-44
   Vehicle operation in cemeteries, see §§
6-4-15 and
6-4-22
Editor’s note:
   Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, repealed and replaced Title 10, Chapter 2
Statutory reference:
   Motor vehicles, see G.S. Chapter 20
   Municipal authority to regulate traffic generally, see G.S. 160A-300
ARTICLE A. WORDS AND PHRASES DEFINED
SEC. 10-2-1 DEFINITIONS OF WORDS AND PHRASES.
   In addition to the definitions as found in City Code § 1-1-3 and G.S.
Chapter 20, including but not limited to those found in G.S. 20-4.01, G.S. 20-
37.5, G.S. 20-171.1, G.S. 20-171.8, and G.S. 20-280.1, which all said
definitions are fully incorporated herein as may be applicable to the
provisions set forth herein, the following definitions, regardless of
capitalization, shall apply to this chapter unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   Alley. A thoroughfare or passageway owned, occupied, or controlled by the
City which is open for use by the public and which is located between two
streets. Alleyway and public alley shall mean the same as alley.
   Authorized emergency vehicle. A fire, rescue, ambulance, or law enforcement
vehicle. A public service vehicle as defined by G.S. 20-157(f) or a service
vehicle as herein defined may be considered an authorized emergency vehicle if
so designated or authorized by the Chief of Police.
   Bus. A large motor vehicle designed to carry or capable of carrying
passengers usually along a fixed route according to a schedule or otherwise
along on a fixed route and for compensation or for private use only. A bus
includes but is not limited to a school bus, school activity bus, motor carrier
vehicle, or common carrier of passengers.
   Chief of Police. The Chief of Police of the Greenville Police Department or
his or her designee.
   City. The City of Greenville.
   City block. A portion of any street located between any two intersections of
any two streets or alleys next adjacent to each other.
   City employee. Any person employed by the City of Greenville. The term city
employee does not include elected officials of the city.
   City Manager.  The City Manager or designee.
   Commercial vehicle. Every vehicle designed, maintained or used primarily for
the transportation of property.
   Controlled access parking area. A parking area designated by the City
Manager, which, during specified times, is subject to restricted or permitted
parking, and is controlled by one of more opening and closing gates or parking
arms at each entrance and exit point activated by gate card, parking meter,
access code, remote control, off-site monitoring, or any other electronic or
mechanical devices or means, or persons, including city employees, guards, or
other attendants.
   Crosswalk. A clearly marked crosswalk at an intersection; any regular
pedestrian crossing upon a street or roadway included within the prolongation
of the lateral boundary lines of the adjacent sidewalk at the end of a city
block; an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection; any portion of a roadway or
street distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings
on the surface of the street or roadway, including but not limited to a school
crosswalk; or that portion of a sidewalk or walkway extending across an alley,
building entrance, road, or driveway.
   Debris. Glass, metal, plastic, mud, soil, antifreeze, transmission, brake,
or other liquids or fluids, injurious substances, pole or fence pieces, tree
limbs, plant materials, parts, pieces, vehicle contents, paper, or any other
item that has been dropped, deposited, or in any way placed upon a street,
alley, bridge, sidewalk, or any portion of property owned, operated, occupied,
leased, or controlled by the city by a person or vehicle, as a result of a
vehicle wreck or crash, disabled vehicle, damaged vehicle, or any other
incident requiring towing or removal of the vehicle.
   Director of Engineering. The Director of the city's Engineering Department
or his or her designee.
   Director of Financial Services. The Director of the city's Financial
Services Department or his or her designee.
   Electric vehicle. A vehicle that operates, either partially or exclusively,
on electrical energy from the grid, or an off grid source, that is stored on
board for motive purpose.
   Electric vehicle charging station.  Equipment that has as its primary
purpose the transfer of electric energy to a battery or other energy storage
device on an electric vehicle.
   Fire/Rescue Chief. The Chief of the Greenville Fire/Rescue Department or his
or her designee.
   Greenway. A corridor of urban, suburban, or rural space with contiguous,
free, and open public-access trails connecting neighborhoods, recreational
facilities (e.g., parks), and businesses allowing and encouraging bicycle and
pedestrian use, particularly for commuting, travel, and recreation. A greenway
emphasizes naturally occurring and planned vegetation, scenic beauty and
environmental protection, as well as preservation of natural, cultural and
historical heritage.
   Law enforcement officer. A sworn law enforcement officer having territorial
and subject matter jurisdiction within the city.
   Lessee. A person who has a possessory interest in a parking space leased to
the person by the city.
   Loading zone.  A parking area or parking space adjacent to a curb on a
street or other space upon any property owned, operated, occupied, leased, or
controlled by the city reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles during the
loading or unloading of freight, goods, passengers, equipment, or other
property.
   Manual of Fees. The Manual of Fees for the City of Greenville that lists
sales and services provided by the city and the fee schedule as approved and
adopted by City Council.
   Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways or MUTCD.
The current edition of the MUTCD as published and/or approved by the United
States Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration.
   Median. The area of a street or highway between two roadways of a divided
highway measured from edge of traveled way to edge of traveled way. The median
excludes turn lanes. The median width might be different between intersections,
interchanges, and at opposite approaches of the same intersection.
   Motor carrier vehicle. A for-hire motor carrier vehicle or a private motor
carrier vehicle.
   No parking area. An area specifically marked, striped, or designated by sign
or other means prohibiting parking.
   Off-street parking. Lots, parking lots, garages, parking garages, or any
other locations or facilities owned or leased by the city and designated for
use by the public as parking facilities.
   Off-street parking area. Any lot, parking lot, garage, parking garage, or
any other location or facility owned or leased by the city and designated for
use by the public as a parking facility.
   Official traffic-control device. Any sign, signal, marking, or device, not
inconsistent with this chapter, placed or erected by or under the authority of
the State of North Carolina or a political subdivision thereof, for the purpose
of regulating, warning, prohibiting, or guiding traffic upon the public streets
and thoroughfares of the city.
   Official traffic signals. Any device, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, whereby traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed, or to turn, or to proceed with caution.
   On-street parking. The parking of vehicles on the public streets, alleys,
and bridges within the city.
   On-street parking area. A public street, alley, or bridge within the city
that is designated for use by the public for on-street parking.
   Overtime parking.  The period of time wherein a parked vehicle is exceeding
the legal parking time or otherwise parked beyond the period of legal parking
time.
   Park or leave standing. The stopping or standing of any vehicle, whether
occupied or unoccupied, attended or unattended, while the vehicle is not in use
or for more than a mere temporary or momentary stoppage for a necessary
purpose. Park and leave standing are synonymous.
   Parking area. A designated area of off-street or on-street parking, which
may include one or more parking spaces, specifically set aside, defined,
marked, or assigned by the Director of Engineering for the parking one or more
vehicles at a time or for a designated or defined time or purpose.
   Parking enforcement officer. A non-sworn city employee, including those city
employees designated as reserve parking enforcement officers, designated by the
Chief of Police.
   Parking meter. Any mobile, cellular, software, or computer-based parking
platform or mechanical device, station, or meter installed, placed, erected, or
used by authority of the city for the control and regulation of time-limited
parking and, depending on the design, activated in whole or in part by in-
person, cellular or mobile telephone, computer, or other electronic means and
by the payment of coins, tokens, cash, credit cards, debit cards, or other
payment method approved by the city.
   Parking meter space.  A parking space within a parking meter zone which is
regulated by a parking meter, is duly designated for the parking of a single
vehicle, and is identified as a parking meter space on, adjacent to, or near
the space by one or more of the following: signage, painted lines, curb
markings, or parking surface painting.
   Parking meter area. An on-street or off-street parking area designated by
the city for use by the public for parking of vehicles as regulated and
controlled by use of a parking meter. A parking meter zone shall be designated
in the Schedule of Traffic Regulations and otherwise by one or more of the
following: signage, painted lines, curb markings, or parking surface painting.
   Parking permit. The permit issued by the city that allows a specific vehicle
to lawfully park in an designated portion of the Uptown area. A parking permit
may be issued by the city in the form of a sign, sticker, placard, tag, or
other format as deemed appropriate by the city.
   Parking space. A designated space specifically signed, set aside, defined,
marked, or assigned by the City Manager for the parking of a single vehicle at
one time and for a designated or defined time or purpose.
   Pedestrian. A person who travels on foot.
   Private motor carrier vehicle. A motor vehicle capable of transporting
passengers or property in interstate commerce and is not a for-hire motor
carrier vehicle.
   Police officer. A sworn law enforcement officer of the Greenville Police
Department.
   Private parking lot. Privately owned real property, including but not
limited to any privately owned parking lot, facility, or area that provides
parking for a fee or otherwise requires the permission of the owner, lessee, or
agent before a person may park at that location.
   Registered owner. The person in whose name a vehicle is registered.
   Reserved parking. An on-street or off-street parking zone, parking area, or
parking space designated by the city for use solely by specific persons or
vehicles and regulated by one or more of the following: signage, painted lines,
curb markings, or parking surface painting, which may include the word
"reserved" or "reserved parking."
   Residential area. An area having a residential district zoning
classification as defined by the Zoning Ordinance for Greenville, North
Carolina.
   Residential area parking permit. A parking permit issued by the City Manager
that authorizes a specific vehicle to lawfully park in an designated parking
area of a specified residential area. A residential area parking permit may be
issued by the city in the form of a sign, sticker, placard, tag, or other
format as deemed appropriate by the city.
   Rideshare. The transportation of persons in a motor vehicle where such
transportation is incidental to another purpose of the driver and is not
operated or provided for profit. The term shall include ridesharing
arrangements such as carpools, vanpools, and buspools.
   Schedule of Traffic Regulations. The Schedule of Traffic Regulations and
Fire Lanes Designated on Private Property in a Public Vehicular Area, which is
adopted by City Council.
   Service vehicle. A vehicle owned by a federal, state, or local government
agency or a vehicle used for the access to or repair, construction, or
maintenance of utilities, buildings, or property, including tow service
vehicles.
   Sidewalk. That portion of a street or highway between the curb line, or the
lateral line of a roadway, and the adjacent property line or on easements of
private property that is paved or improved and intended for the use by
pedestrians.
   Skateboard. A short, narrow platform having a set of two or more wheels or
casters mounted under it which is propelled by human force.
   Special event. An event including but not limited to a festival; parade;
party; motorcade; race, walk, run, or marathon; sporting event, pep rally,
celebration, or similar event; concert; lawful picket, protest, or assemblage;
or any other similar event or activity which is sponsored for or by the city;
owners, residents, or tenants in the area; organizations, including any
political, charitable, civil, or fraternal organization; or any person or
group.
   Stop. The complete cessation from movement, where required.
   Tailgate or tailgating. The act of following or allowing another to follow
behind a vehicle that has lawfully activated any gate, parking arm, or access
control device at any off-site parking area such as to enter or exit a
controlled access parking area by trailing behind such another vehicle before
the gate has had an opportunity to close for the purpose of evading payment of
the applicable parking fee or permit fee or otherwise for the purpose of
evading the lawful operation of the controlling gate, parking arm, or access
control device.
   Temporary street closing. The temporary closing-off of any public street,
alley, bridge, sidewalk, lot, parking lot, garage, parking garage, or any other
location or facility owned, occupied, or leased by the city for a special
event.
   Ticket. A citation imposing a civil penalty only. In the context of off-
street parking, a ticket is also a paper or other medium dispensed at the time
of entry onto the off-street parking area identifying the date and time of
entry onto the off-street parking area.
   Time-limited parking. An on-street or off-street parking zone, parking area,
or parking space designated by the city for use by the public for parking of
vehicles for a specified and limited time and controlled and regulated by sign
or by parking meter or by any combination thereof.
   Tow or towed. To haul, carry, pull along, or otherwise transport or remove
in any of its forms a vehicle by any means including towing and to store the
vehicle.
   Tow service. Any person engaged in the business of towing and/or recovery of
vehicles, including but not limited to those businesses that are part of an
auto salvage, auto repair, salvage, or junk business.
   Tow service vehicle. Any of the following vehicles used to tow, remove,
push, or recover any vehicle that has become disabled as a result of a motor
vehicle crash, violation of parking ordinance authorizing tow, disabled
vehicle, or any other incident involving a vehicle that requires tow, removal,
or recovery, including but not limited to a police initiated tow:
      A.   Vehicle carrier or "rollback." A vehicle carrier or rollback is a
vehicle transport designed to tow or carry vehicles damage-free. The chassis
shall have a minimum gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of 14,500 pounds.
Additionally, the rollback shall have all of the following: two lift cylinders,
minimum two and one-half inch bore; individual power winch pulling capacity of
not less than 8,000 pounds; a length of wire rope (cable) on winch drum with a
working load limit (WLL) that meets or exceeds the pulling capacity of the
power winch utilized; and four tie down hook safety chains. The carrier bed of
the rollback shall be a minimum of 16 feet in length and a minimum of 84 inches
in width inside side rails. A cab protector, constructed of aluminum or steel,
must extend a minimum of 10 inches above the height of the bed of the rollback.
A vehicle carrier or rollback shall be synonymous but shall not be considered a
small or large wrecker.
      B.   Large wrecker. A truck chassis having a minimum gross vehicle weight
rating (GVWR) of 26,001 pounds and a boom assembly having a minimum lifting
capacity of 40,000 pounds as rated by the manufacturer; tandem axles or cab to
axle length of no less than 102 inches; a length of wire rope (cable) with a
working load limit (WLL) that meets or exceeds the pulling capacity of the
power winch utilized on each drum; airbrake so constructed as to lock wheels
automatically upon failure; and additional safety equipment as specified by the
rules in this chapter.
      C.   Small wrecker. A truck chassis having a minimum gross vehicle weight
rating (GVWR) of 10,000 pounds and a maximum gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR)
that does not exceed 26,000 pounds; a boom assembly having a minimum lifting
power of 8,000 pounds as rated by the manufacturer; an 8,000 pound rated winch
with a length of wire rope (cable) on winch drum with a working load limit
(WLL) that meets or exceeds the pulling capacity of the power winch utilized; a
belt-type tow plate or tow sling assembly; a wheel-lift with a retracted
lifting capacity of no less than 3,500 pounds; and additional safety equipment
as specified by the rules in this chapter.
      D.   Wreckers. Vehicles with permanently attached cranes used to move
other vehicles; provided, that said wreckers shall be equipped with adequate
brakes for units being towed.
   Tow service vehicle operator. A person operating a tow service vehicle.
   Tower. The person, including a tow service, who tows a vehicle.
   Towing fee. The fee charged for towing and storing payable to the tower for
the tower's towing of a vehicle.
   Trailer or Utility Trailer. A vehicle without motive power drawn by a
vehicle, which may used for the transport of persons, property, goods, or
materials. Trailers and utility trailers are synonymous and include but are not
limited to camping trailers, semitrailers, trailers, fifth-wheel trailers,
house trailer, and travel trailer as defined by G.S. Chapter 20.
   Uptown area. The area of the city bordered by the Tar River to the north,
Reade Street to the east, Tenth Street on the south, and the CSX Railroad
right-of-way on the west.
   Uptown area parking permit. A parking permit issued by the City Manager that
authorizes a specific vehicle properly displaying the issued parking permit to
lawfully park in a designated parking area within the Uptown area. An Uptown
area parking permit may be issued by the city in the form of a sign, sticker,
placard, tag, or other format as deemed appropriate by the city.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
ARTICLE B. TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SEC. 10-2-2 AUTHORITY OF POLICE, FIRE/RESCUE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS, AND PARKING
ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
   (A)   Police officers. It shall be the duty of the police officers to
enforce all ordinances as defined in this chapter and all applicable state
traffic laws. Police officers are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by
voice, hand, or signal in conformance with traffic laws; provided that, in the
event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard
pedestrians, police officers may direct traffic as conditions may require
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (B)   Greenville Fire/Rescue Department Officials. In connection with their
duties, uniformed members of the Greenville Fire/Rescue Department, when at the
scene of or in connection with a fire, accident, or other hazard may direct
traffic or assist the police in directing traffic.
   (C)   Parking enforcement officers. Parking enforcement officers are
authorized to issue civil tickets for violations of this chapter and to tow and
store vehicles parked in violation of the provisions of this chapter. Parking
enforcement officers are also hereby authorized to be appointed as traffic-
control officers in accordance with G.S. 20-114.1.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-3 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES EXEMPT.
The provisions of this chapter regulating the operation, stopping, or parking
of vehicles shall not apply to operators of authorized emergency vehicles
having the right-of-way or while said vehicles are being operated in
emergencies and the stopping or parking of any federal, state, or local
government vehicle along any road or highway while engaged in official
business, and with the proper warning devices activated shall not be considered
a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-4 SCHEDULE OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS; INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Traffic shall be controlled by official traffic-control signs,
signals, markings and devices designated in the Schedule of Traffic
Regulations, which is incorporated herein and made a part of this Code by
reference, a copy of which is on file in the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   The Director of Engineering is authorized to amend the Schedule of
Traffic Regulations by designating the streets, highways, alleys, or
intersections which are not a part of the state highway system or parts of
streets, highways, or alleys which are not a part of the state highway system
upon which traffic is prohibited, regulated, diverted, controlled, or limited
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   In accordance with the provisions of state law, City Council may amend
the Schedule of Traffic Regulations by designating the streets, highways,
alleys or intersections which are a part of the state highway system or parts
of streets, highways, or alleys which are a part of the state highway system
upon which traffic is prohibited, regulated, diverted, controlled, or limited.
   (D)   The Director of Engineering is authorized to amend the Schedule of
Traffic Regulations by designating loading zones; on-street parking within the
City upon which parking is regulated, restricted, or prohibited in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter; and by designating off-street parking upon
which the use is regulated in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   The Director of Engineering is authorized to amend the Schedule of
Traffic Regulations by designating the specified areas of any parking areas or
driveways of a hospital, shopping center, apartment house, condominium complex
or commercial office complex, or any other privately owned public vehicular
area upon which stopping, standing, or parking is regulated or prohibited in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, provided the owner or person in
general charge of the operation and control of that area requests in writing
that such an ordinance be adopted.
   (F)   Authority to place restricted turn signs. Intersections at which
drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left turn, or U-turn shall be
designated in the Schedule of Traffic Regulations and proper signs shall be
erected at these intersections. The making of the turns may be prohibited
between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event
the hours shall be plainly indicated on the signs or they may be removed when
the turns are permitted.
   (G)   Authority to sign one-way streets and alleys. One-way streets or
alleys shall be designated in the Schedule of Traffic Regulations and proper
signs shall be erected giving notice thereof. Signs indicating the direction of
lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of
traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
   (H)   One-way streets and alleys designated. Upon those streets and parts of
streets and in those alleys identified in the Schedule of Traffic Regulations,
vehicular traffic shall move only in the indicated direction when proper signs
indicating the direction of traffic are erected and maintained at every
intersection where movement in the opposite direction is prohibited.
   (I)   Authority to erect stop signs. Through streets shall be designated in
the Schedule of Traffic Regulations and stop signs on each and every street
intersecting the through street or intersecting a portion thereof shall be
erected unless traffic at any intersection is controlled at all times by
traffic-control signals; provided, however, that at the intersection of two
through streets or at the intersection of a through street and a heavy traffic
street not so designated, stop signs shall be erected at the approaches of
either of the streets.
   (J)   Intersections where stop required. Intersections, upon other than
through streets, where vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any stop
intersection, shall be designated in the Schedule of Traffic Regulations.
   (K)   Fire lanes. Fire lanes designated pursuant to G.S. 20-162(b) shall be
identified in the Schedule of Traffic Regulations to the extent possible.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-5 NO MOTOR VEHICLES ON GREENWAY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate, park, or ride upon a motor vehicle on
any greenway. For purposes of this section, the definition of motor vehicle
includes any moped, golf cart or similar device, and all machines designed or
intended to travel over land or water by self-propulsion or while attached to
any self-propelled vehicle.
   (B)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Authorized emergency vehicles.
      (2)   Service vehicles including those needed for care and maintenance of
the greenway or landscaping.
      (3)   Motorized wheelchairs or similar vehicles not exceeding 1,000
pounds gross weight when used for pedestrian purposes by a handicapped person
with a mobility impairment as defined in G.S. 20-37.5.
      (4)   An electric personal assistive mobility device.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-6 OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED. 
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place in or upon a street,
sidewalk, alley, bridge, or any portion of property owned, occupied, or
controlled by the city any box, crate, cask, barrel, furniture, or any other
obstruction or structure of any kind.
   (B)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to garbage or refuse
receptacles in which is deposited waste paper and trash of every description
for removal by the city, leaves or yard waste for removal by the city, and a
holder of a permit issued for uptown outdoor dining pursuant to Part II, Title
6, Chapter 2, Articles E and F of the City Code.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-7 BRICK, STONE, OR WOOD; PERMISSION REQUIRED FOR BUILDING MATERIALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow brick, stone, wood, or any
other substance obstructing a street, alley, bridge, sidewalk, or any portion
of property owned, operated, occupied, leased, or controlled by the city to lie
in or upon a street, alley, bridge, sidewalk, or any portion of property owned,
operated, occupied, leased, or controlled by the city. However, building
material, earth, and other obstructions of like character, in use for building
purposes may, by permission of the City Manager in writing, be allowed under
such restrictions as the City Manager may impose.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-8 SALE OR DISPLAY OF GOODS ON SIDEWALKS IN FIRE DISTRICT. 
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or display for the purpose of
sale, any goods, wares, or merchandise upon a sidewalk within the fire district
except as allowed in accordance with a permit issued for uptown outdoor dining
pursuant to Articles E and F of Chapter 2 of Title 6 of the City Code.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-9 VENDORS OF POPCORN, PEANUTS, OR MERCHANDISE FROM MACHINES. 
   It shall be unlawful for any vendor of popcorn, peanuts, or any other
merchandise of any kind whatsoever, using a portable or stationary machine, to
put, place or allow the machine to remain on a street, alley, bridge, sidewalk,
or any portion of property owned, operated, occupied, leased, or controlled by
the city.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-10 GASOLINE TANKS AND OIL PUMPS ON OR UNDER SIDEWALK.
    It shall be unlawful to place a gasoline tank, oil pump, or similar object
upon or under a sidewalk.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-11 GAMES ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   Except as otherwise provided in this Code, all games of every description
are prohibited upon a street or on a sidewalk in the city.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-12 BUILDING FIRE OR BURNING TRASH. 
   The building of fires or the burning of trash upon a street, alley, bridge,
sidewalk, or any portion of property owned, operated, occupied, leased, or
controlled by the city is prohibited.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-13 INJURIOUS WHEELS AND MACHINERY. 
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, drag, or draw, or cause to be
driven, dragged, or drawn, upon, over, or across a street, alley, bridge,
sidewalk, or any portion of property owned, operated, occupied, leased, or
controlled by the city a vehicle having wheels with flanges, ribs, clamps or
other devices attached to or forming a part of the wheels which would damage
the surface of the street, alley, bridge, sidewalk, or any portion of property
owned, operated, occupied, leased, or controlled by the city or any disc
harrows, or other machinery, implement, or vehicle of any description which
would dig up, damage, or injure any portion of said street, alley, bridge,
sidewalk, or any portion of property owned, operated, occupied, leased, or
controlled by the city.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-14 PLACING GLASS OR DANGEROUS OBJECTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to throw, deposit, or place in any manner upon a
street, alley, bridge, sidewalk, or any portion of property owned, operated,
occupied, leased, or controlled by the city any destructive or injurious
material, glass bottle, glass, nail, tack, wire, can, or any other substance
reasonably likely to injure or cause damage to any person, animal, or vehicle.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-15 TOWING BY SOLICITATION PROHIBITED. 
   (A)   No tower shall tow a vehicle unless authorized by the owner, operator,
or otherwise as provided by the provisions of this Code.
   (B)   Penalties. A violation of this section may subject the violator to any
or all of the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than $100 and not more than $500.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   A violation of any of the provisions of this section shall
subject the violator to a civil penalty by way of a ticket in an amount as
follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
            2.   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            3.   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
         (b)   Appeals; payment of civil penalty. Unless appealed in accordance
with the appeal provisions of this chapter, a civil penalty assessed for a
violation of any provision of this section must be paid to and received by the
revenue division of the city's Financial Services Department within five
business days from the date of issuance.
         (c)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with the appeal provisions of this chapter, if full payment for an
assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the revenue division of the
city's Financial Services Department, the city may recover the unpaid civil
penalty by any or all of the following methods:
            1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
            2.   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
            3.   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
            4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
            5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect,
satisfy, or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (3)   Continuing violations. Each day's continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-16 TOWING FROM PRIVATE LOTS; PRE-TOWING NOTICE REQUIRED. 
   (A)   Private property defined. For the purpose of this section, "private
property" shall mean property upon which is located a lot, garage, or other
parking facility not owned or leased by the city of Greenville or another
governmental entity.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to tow or remove or immobilize by the use of a
wheel lock or other method a vehicle for parking on private property without
the permission of the owner or lessee of the private property to park the
vehicle on the private property unless notice in accordance with the provisions
of this section is posted on the private property from which the towing,
removal, or immobilization is made.
   (C)   Such notice shall fulfill the following requirements:
      (1)   A MUTCD-compliant notice, in the form of a sign structure, not less
than 12 inches by 18 inches in size, shall be prominently placed on the private
property at each access or curb cut allowing vehicular access to the property,
within five feet of the street right-of-way line. If there are no curb or
access barriers, MUTCD-compliant signs shall be posted not less than one sign
each 50 feet of the frontage to the public street. As an alternative,
MUTCDcompliant notice, in the form of a sign structure, not less than 12 inches
by 18 inches in size, shall be posted at each parking space from which towing,
removal, or immobilization is made.
      (2)   The MUTCD-compliant notice shall clearly display the following:
         (a)   In not less than one-and-one-half-inch-high letters on a
contrasting background, the words "tow-away" or "tow-away-zone" or "towing
enforced."
         (b)   In not less than one-inch-high letters on a contrasting
background, a statement indicating that parking by unauthorized vehicles is
prohibited by the use of a phrase such as "private property," "leased parking,"
"no parking," "parking for customers only," "parking for residents only," or a
similar phrase. If parking by unauthorized vehicles is not prohibited on a 24-
hour continuous basis, the days of the week and hours of the day during which
unauthorized parking is prohibited shall be posted.
         (c)   In not less than one-half-inch-high letters on a contrasting
background, the telephone number at which a person available to release the
vehicle that has been towed, removed or immobilized may be contacted at any
time. Calls to the telephone number must be answered by a person and a person
with the authority and ability to release the vehicle must respond to the
location of the vehicle within 30 minutes of a call.
      (3)   The sign structure displaying the required notices shall be
permanently installed with the bottom of the sign not less than six feet above
ground level and not more than eight feet above ground level. Pedestrian safety
should be taken into consideration when locating freestanding signs.
   (D)   Exceptions. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, no
notice shall be required for the towing or removal or immobilization of a
vehicle:
      (1)   If the vehicle obstructs adequate ingress and egress to businesses
or residences;
      (2)   If the vehicle has been left on the private property for a period
of time greater than 48 hours; or
      (3)   If the vehicle is being removed pursuant to the direction of a law
enforcement officer or the code enforcement coordinator or officer in
accordance with the provisions of the City Code or state law.
   (E)   Requirement to give notice of vehicle towing. Whenever a vehicle is
towed at the request of a person other than the owner or operator of the
vehicle, the tower shall provide the following information to the local law
enforcement agency having jurisdiction through calling the 10-digit telephone
number designated by the local law enforcement agency having jurisdiction prior
to moving the vehicle:
      (1)   A description of the vehicle.
      (2)   The place from which the vehicle was towed.
      (3)   The place where the vehicle will be stored.
      (4)   The contact information for the person from whom the vehicle owner
may retrieve the vehicle.
      If the vehicle is impeding the flow of traffic or otherwise jeopardizing
the public welfare so that immediate towing is necessary, the notice to the
local law enforcement agency having jurisdiction may be provided by a tower
within 30 minutes of moving the vehicle rather than prior to moving the
vehicle. If a caller to a local law enforcement agency having jurisdiction can
provide the information required under subdivisions (1) and (2) of this
subsection, then a local law enforcement agency having jurisdiction shall
provide to the caller the information provided under subdivisions (3) and (4)
of this subsection. The local law enforcement agency having jurisdiction shall
preserve the information required under this subsection for a period of not
less than 30 days from the date on which the tower provided the information to
the local law enforcement agency having jurisdiction. This subsection shall not
apply to vehicles that are towed at the direction of a law enforcement officer.
   (F)   Storage within city required unless authorized by owner. Unless
authorized by the owner of the vehicle, a vehicle that is towed pursuant to
this section shall be stored by the tow service within the corporate limits of
the city and at no time shall the vehicle be transported outside of the
corporate limits of the city unless in compliance with other operation of law.
   (G)   Civil Penalty. A violation of any of the provisions of this section
shall subject the violator to a civil penalty by way of a civil ticket in an
amount as follows:
      (1)   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
      (2)   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A second
violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein defined
first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
      (3)   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
   (H)   Appeals; payment of civil penalty. Unless appealed in accordance with
the appeal provisions of this chapter, a civil penalty assessed for a violation
of any provision of this section must be paid to and received by the revenue
division of the city's Financial Services Department within five business days
from the date of issuance.
   (I)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with the appeal provisions of this chapter, if full payment for an
assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the revenue division of the
city's Financial Services Department, the city may recover the unpaid civil
penalty by any or all of the following methods:
      (1)   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
      (2)   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
      (3)   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
      (4)   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (5)   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect, satisfy, or
otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
   (J)   Continuing violations. Each day's continuing violation of this section
shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-17 FAILURE TO REMOVE AND DISPOSE OF DEBRIS. 
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person repairing or removing by tow or
otherwise a wrecked, crashed, disabled, or damaged vehicle from a street,
alley, bridge, sidewalk, or any portion of property owned, operated, occupied,
leased, or controlled by the city to fail to remove and properly dispose of all
debris.
   (B)   Civil penalty. A violation of any of the provisions of this section
shall subject the violator to a civil penalty by way of a civil ticket in an
amount as follows:
      (1)   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
      (2)   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A second
violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein defined
first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
      (3)   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
   (C)   Appeals; payment of civil penalty. Unless appealed in accordance with
the appeal provisions of this chapter, a civil penalty assessed for a violation
of any provision of this section must be paid to and received by the revenue
division of the city's Financial Services Department within five business days
from the date of issuance.
   (D)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with the appeal provisions of this chapter, if full payment for an
assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the revenue division of the
city's Financial Services Department, the city may recover the unpaid civil
penalty by any or all of the following methods:
      (1)   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
      (2)   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
      (3)   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
      (4)   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (5)   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect, satisfy, or
otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
   (E)   Continuing violations. Each day's continuing violation of this section
shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-18 CERTAIN ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   (A) It shall be unlawful for a person to ride upon or operate in any manner
any motorized or non-motorized roller skates, in-line skates, roller blades,
scooter, skateboard, coaster, hoverboard, sled, toy vehicle, or any similar
tracked device or wheeled device having one or more wheels as follows:
      (1)   In or upon an off-street parking area; or
      (2)   On a street, alley, bridge, sidewalk, or any portion of property
owned, operated, occupied, leased, or controlled by the city in a manner or
under any condition which interferes with vehicle, motor vehicle, or pedestrian
travel or in any way endangers the safety or property of any person.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-19 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS, OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
street or highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which
purports to be or is in imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control
device, sign, or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of
pedestrians or traffic, or which hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official traffic-control device, sign, or signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit upon any street or highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon
any commercial advertising.
   (C)   Civil penalty. A violation of any of the provisions of this section
shall subject the violator to a civil penalty by way of a civil ticket in an
amount as follows:
      (1)   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
      (2)   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A second
violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein defined
first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
      (3)   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
   (D)   Appeals; payment of civil penalty. Unless appealed in accordance with
the appeal provisions of this chapter, a civil penalty assessed for a violation
of any provision of this section must be paid to and received by the revenue
division of the city's Financial Services Department within five business days
from the date of issuance.
   (E)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with the appeal provisions of this chapter, if full payment for an
assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the revenue division of the
city's Financial Services Department, the city may recover the unpaid civil
penalty by any or all of the following methods:
      (1)   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
      (2)   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
      (3)   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
      (4)   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (5)   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect, satisfy, or
otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
   (F)   Continuing violations. Each day's continuing violation of this section
shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-20 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES, SIGNS OR
SIGNALS.
   (A)   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, possess, or remove any official traffic-control
device, sign, or signal or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any
other part thereof.
   (B)   Penalties. A violation of this section may subject the violator to any
or all of the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than $100 and not more than $500.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   A violation of any of the provisions of this section shall
subject the violator to a civil penalty by way of a ticket in an amount as
follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
            2.   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            3.   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
         (b)   Appeals; payment of civil penalty. Unless appealed in accordance
with the appeal provisions of this chapter, a civil penalty assessed for a
violation of any provision of this section must be paid to and received by the
revenue division of the city's Financial Services Department within five
business days from the date of issuance.
         (c)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with the appeal provisions of this chapter, if full payment for an
assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the revenue division of the
city's Financial Services Department, the city may recover the unpaid civil
penalty by any or all of the following methods:
            1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
            2.   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
            3.   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
            4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
            5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect,
satisfy, or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (3)   Continuing violations. Each day's continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-21 SPINNING OF WHEELS PROHIBITED. 
   It shall be unlawful for any person, upon any street, alley, bridge,
sidewalk; property owned, operated, occupied, leased, or controlled by the
city; or other public way or upon the grounds and premises of any service
station, drive-in theatre, store, restaurant or other business establishment
providing parking or loading and unloading automobile space for customers,
patrons, or the public, to operate a motor vehicle from a standing or parked
position by rapid acceleration or other mechanical means of operation, so as to
cause the wheels of the vehicle to spin in place prior to or during the initial
forward movement of the vehicle; or to operate a vehicle so as to cause the
vehicle, in its initial movement from a standing or parked position, to travel
at a rate of speed greater than is reasonable and necessary for the normal
operation of a motor vehicle according to accepted standard practices for
vehicle operation.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-22 ALLEYS IN THE UPTOWN AREA.
   No person shall drive or park a vehicle, other than an emergency or public
service vehicle, on an alley in the Uptown area and no person shall damage or
disfigure the paving surfaces or planted shrubs or trees in an alley in the
Uptown area.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-23 CUTTING ACROSS PRIVATE PROPERTY TO AVOID TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. 
It shall be unlawful for any operator of a motor vehicle to leave the roadway
and travel across private property to avoid an official traffic-control device.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-24 STANDING, SITTING, AND WALKING ON MEDIAN PROHIBITED. 
   No person shall stand, sit, or walk on a median, provided that this section
does not prohibit a person from taking such actions during the time needed to
travel safely from one side of a roadway to the opposite side of the roadway.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-25 DRIVING OR PARKING ON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED. 
   (A)   No person shall drive or park any motor vehicle, which for purposes of
this section includes mopeds, upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area except upon a
permanent or temporary driveway.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to an authorized emergency vehicle when
said vehicle is parked or operated in the performance of a lawful, official,
and required duty of its operator.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-26 CLINGING TO VEHICLES. 
   No person operating or riding upon any motorized or non-motorized bicycle,
tricycle, roller skates, in-line skates, roller blades, scooter, skateboard,
coaster, hoverboard, sled, toy vehicle, or any similar tracked device or
wheeled device having one or more wheels shall attach same or himself or
herself in any manner to any vehicle or motor vehicle upon a street, alley,
bridge, sidewalk, or any portion of property owned, operated, occupied, leased,
or controlled by the city.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
ARTICLE C. PARKING REGULATIONS
PART 1. GENERAL PARKING REGULATIONS
SEC. 10-2-100 APPLICATION OF ARTICLE. 
   The provisions of this article prohibiting the stopping or parking of a
vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a law
enforcement officer or official traffic-control device.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-101 VIOLATIONS DEEMED PROHIBITED PARKING. 
   A vehicle that parks or is otherwise left upon any on-street or off-street
parking area in violation of any provisions of this article shall be deemed as
prohibiting parking.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-102 REGULATIONS NOT EXCLUSIVE.
The provisions of this article imposing a time limit on parking shall not
relieve any person from the duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of vehicles in
specified places or at specified times.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-103 PARKING CLOSE TO CURB OR ON OPERATOR'S LEFT. 
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle upon a street other than parallel with
the farthest right-side edge of the roadway, headed in the direction of lawful
traffic movement and with the wheels on the right side of the vehicle within 12
inches of the curb or edge of the roadway except as otherwise provided in this
article.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle on the
operator's left side of any street within the city; provided, that on one-way
streets vehicles may be parked either on the operator's right or left side of
any such street, unless signs or markings are placed, erected or installed
indicating no parking zones on either one or both sides of any such street.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-104 VEHICLES TO BE PROPERLY PARKED. 
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle in or upon an on-street parking
area or off-street parking area to be parked in such a way or in any manner
other than entirely within the identified bounds of a parking space, if so
identified. By way of example, whenever a parking space is marked with lines
designating that parking space, it shall be unlawful for any person to park any
vehicle on or across, or to extend any part of the vehicle over any designated
line or marking, or to park any vehicle in such a position that it is not
entirely within the space designated by such lines or markings.
   (B)   In all on-street parking areas and off-street parking areas, all
vehicles shall be parked with the front of the vehicle positioned towards the
front of the parking space and it shall therefore be unlawful for any person to
back any vehicle into any on-street or off-street parking space.
   (C)   All parking upon a roadway or street shall be parallel, except upon
those streets which have been marked for or have a posted sign indicating angle
parking, upon which streets vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the curb
indicated by such markings or signs and not otherwise.
   (D)   All government owned vehicles shall be exempt from this section.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-105 USE OF VEHICLE COVERS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for an owner or other person in lawful control of a
vehicle while said vehicle is parked on a street, alley, bridge, or upon
property owned, operated, occupied, leased, or controlled by the city to place
or install in any manner a cover or any concealment of any kind upon said
vehicle. A law enforcement officer or parking enforcement officer may
temporarily remove such cover or concealment as may be reasonably necessary to
inspect, read, or obtain any vehicle identification number, registration plate,
or identity of ownership for purposes of enforcement of this chapter or for an
emergency.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-106 PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES ON CERTAIN STREETS. 
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
at any time upon any of the streets designated in the Schedule of Traffic
Regulations.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-107 STOPPING OR PARKING OF VEHICLES PROHIBITED GENERALLY; NO SIGNS
REQUIRED. 
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with pedestrians or other
traffic, the vehicle is disabled to such an extent that it is impossible to
avoid stopping and temporarily leaving the vehicle, in compliance with law, or
at the directions of a law enforcement officer or traffic-control device, no
person shall stop or park any vehicle of any kind whether attended or
unattended, in any of the following places or otherwise as follows:
      (1)   On a sidewalk.
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway.
      (3)   Within an intersection.
      (4)   Within 15 feet in either direction of a fire hydrant.
      (5)   On any portion of a crosswalk.
      (6)   Within 30 feet of an intersection.
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign,
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway.
      (8)   Within 15 feet in either direction of the entrance to any fire
station or on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within 75 feet of the entrance (when properly signposted).
      (9)   Alongside or opposite any street construction, maintenance,
excavation, or obstruction when stopping or parking would obstruct or impede
such operation or traffic.
      (10)   Within 10 feet of the point of tangency between the driveway
opening and curb line of a driveway.
      (11)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street.
      (12)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel.
      (13)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking.
      (14)   At or upon any on-street parking or off-street parking where the
vehicle is stopped or parked in such a manner that it exceeds more than one
parking space.
      (15)   Upon the paved or main traveled portion of any street or highway
open to the public for the purpose of vehicular traffic. In emergency
situations when stopping a vehicle along a street or highway is necessary, it
shall be the duty of the operator to exercise reasonable care to give adequate
warning to approaching traffic of the presence of the vehicle. This duty exists
regardless of the reason for stopping the vehicle. Temporary or momentary
stopping when there is no intent to interfere with the flow of traffic shall
not be considered a violation of this subsection.
      (16)   On the area between the curb and sidewalk.
      (17)   On a median, unless the vehicle is disabled, and then only
temporarily for a period not to exceed 24 hours.
      (18)   In the same place at or upon any on-street parking or off-street
parking continuously for 72 hours.
      (19)   On property owned, operated, occupied, leased, or controlled by
the city for more than 72 hours.
      (20)   Within 500 feet of any fire apparatus stopped to respond to a fire
alarm or other emergency.
      (21)   In any manner or under any conditions as to leave available less
than 10 feet of the width of the roadway, less than 10 feet of the width of the
right one-half of the roadway, or any area delineated as a travel lane for free
movement of vehicular traffic.
      (22)   Upon any private or public alley located within the fire district
of the city in such a manner as to obstruct the free passage of other vehicles
along the alley at all times.
      (23)   On a street while displaying the vehicle for sale.
      (24)   On a street, alley, bridge, or upon property owned, operated,
occupied, leased, or controlled by the city, including but not limited to on-
street and off-street parking areas:
         (a)   For the purpose of or while working on, repairing, painting,
washing, or greasing a vehicle. This subsection does not apply to repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
         (b)   For the purpose of storing a vehicle by a person, including by
garages, repair shops, and dealers, when the storing is secondary to the bona
fide use and operation of the vehicle. For the purpose of this section, a
vehicle shall be deemed to have been left for the principal purpose of storage
when that vehicle has been parked in one place for a continuous period of more
than 72 hours.
         (c)   For the purpose of storing of any detached trailer or van when
the towing unit has been disconnected or for the purpose of transferring
merchandise or freight from one vehicle to another.
         (d)   For the primary purpose of advertising.
      (25)   In any designated place when official signs are erected at
hazardous or congested places.
      (26)   In a manner as would block or otherwise obstruct the reasonable
ingress to or egress from any on-street or off-street parking area by other
vehicles, or as would block or obstruct the passage of emergency vehicles
through such parking area or lot.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area or away from a curb any distance as is unlawful.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-108 PRODUCTION OR ALTERATION OF PARKING PERMIT, TAG, GATE CARD
PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to produce or cause to be produced, to
alter, or to display in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of this
chapter or without authority of the City Manager, any parking permit, sticker,
decal, gate card, sign, or other mark, symbol, or device indicating eligibility
or authority to park on on-street or off-street parking. No refunds shall be
issued the violators will be issued a citation, the vehicles shall be towed or
booted, and the violators shall be ineligible for any city-issued parking
permit for one calendar year. Any such parking permit, sticker, decal, gate
card, sign, or other mark, symbol, or device shall be subject to confiscation
or, upon notice by the City Manager, shall be surrendered to the City Manager.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-109 FIRE LANES. 
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to park or leave a
motor vehicle or to place any other object, structure, or obstruction in a fire
lane.
   (B)   Fire lanes may be established in publicly and privately owned public
vehicular areas of shopping centers, hospitals, apartment complexes,
condominiums, or any other public or private parking area which is open to the
public.
   (C)   The Fire/Rescue Chief is hereby authorized to require the designation
of fire lanes on private property when a site plan is required to be submitted
for an improvement to the property. The designation of fire lanes shall be made
when the site plan is approved after review by the Technical Review Committee.
The fire lanes shall be installed prior to the issuance of a Certificate of
Occupancy for the improvement.
   (D)   The Fire/Rescue Chief is hereby authorized to approve the designation
of fire lanes on private property for existing developments when the owner or
person in general charge of the operation and control of the area requests in
writing the designation of the fire lanes.
   (E)   All fire lanes designated on or after January 12, 2015, are required
to comply with the applicable Fire Code, as adopted. Any nonconforming fire
lanes or lanes marked as fire lanes which do not comply with currently adopted
Fire Code standards shall be required to comply with currently adopted Fire
Code standards when a site plan is required to be submitted for an improvement
to the property.
   (F)   Fire lanes may be designated on any surface, road, alley, or roadway
generally used for the movement or parking of motor vehicles, when the parking
of motor vehicles or other obstructions in that area would interfere with the
speed and efficiency of fire fighting and emergency personnel or the proper
ingress and egress of emergency vehicles and equipment.
   (G)   Areas designated as fire lanes shall be clearly marked, with yellow or
another suitable color of paint, with the words "No Parking, Fire Lane," and
the boundaries, borders or curbs shall be clearly visible.
   (H)   Fire lanes shall be designated in the Schedule of Traffic Regulations,
a copy of which is on file in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-110 UNAUTHORIZED PARKING IN DESIGNATED HANDICAPPED SPACES
PROHIBITED. 
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      Curb cuts/curb ramps. Any mechanism constructed on each side of any
street or road, where curbs and sidewalks are provided, and at other major
points of pedestrian flow as long as the minimum requirements set out in G.S.
136-44.14 are met.
      Designated handicapped parking space. Any parking space which has been
designated for parking for the handicapped as defined under "distinguished
license plate" below. These spaces shall be designated in accordance with G.S.
136-30 and each space shall have an appropriate sign erected which states the
maximum penalty for parking in the space in violation of this section.
      Distinguished license plate. Any license plate (in-state or out) that
displays the international symbol of access as defined in G.S. 20-37.5(3).
      Handicapped. A person with a mobility impairment who is determined by a
licensed physician to have any of the conditions stated in G.S. 20-37.5(2).
      Removable windshield placard. A two-sided, hooked placard which includes
on each side:
         (a)   The international symbol of access which is at least three
inches in height, centered on the placard, and is white and blue in color;
         (b)   An identification number;
         (c)   An expiration date; and
         (d)   The seal or other identification of the issuing authority.
   (B)   Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person, who drives or is
transporting a person or persons, to park or leave standing any vehicle in any
designated handicapped parking space unless said vehicle is then currently
displaying a "distinguished license plate" or a "removable windshield placard"
(or a temporary "removable windshield placard") as defined in subsection (A)
above.
   (C)   Obstruction of curb cuts and curb ramps designated for handicapped
persons prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave
standing any vehicle so that it obstructs a curb cut or curb ramp for
handicapped persons as provided for by the N.C. Building Code or as designated
in G.S. 36-44.14.
   (D)   Enforcement. When a violation of the provisions of this section has
occurred, a law enforcement officer or other person, authorized by and whose
enforcement duties are as defined by the Chief of Police, detecting the
apparent violation is authorized to take the state and license number of the
vehicle involved and to place a parking ticket in or on the vehicle involved or
to serve the ticket if the owner or operator is present.
   (E)   Civil Penalties. Any violation of the provisions of this section shall
subject the violator to a civil penalty in the amount of $100. If payment for
the violation is not made within ten days of issuance, an additional $50 late
fee will be due. If payment for the violation is not made within 30 days of
issuance, an additional $50 late fee will be due. If the payment for the
violation is not made within 60 days of its issuance, an additional $50 late
fee will be due. In no instance shall the penalty and late fees for this
violation exceed $250.
   (F)   Appeals; payment of civil penalty. Unless appealed in accordance with
the appeal provisions of this chapter, a civil penalty assessed for a violation
of any provision of this section must be paid to and received by the revenue
division of the city's Financial Services Department within five business days
from the date of issuance.
      (1)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with the appeal provisions of this chapter, if full payment for an
assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the revenue division of the
city's Financial Services Department, the city may recover the unpaid civil
penalty by any or all of the following methods:
         (a)   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
         (b)   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
         (c)   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
         (d)   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
         (e)   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect, satisfy,
or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (2)   Continuing violations. Each day's continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
PART 2. GENERAL OFF-STREET PARKING REGULATIONS
SEC. 10-2-111 OFF-STREET PARKING REGULATIONS. 
   (A)   Designation. Upon any off-street parking area, the City Manager is
authorized and directed to cause designate and define by proper marking or
signage parking spaces, time-limit parking spaces, parking meter spaces,
loading zones, parking spaces in which parking is prohibited, spaces designated
as restricted to vehicles driven by or transporting the handicapped, and
traffic lanes, including one-way lanes.
   (B)   Time-limits, rates, and enforcement. All off-street parking shall be
subject to the same enforcement provisions and practices afforded on-street
parking. The City Manager shall have authority to establish rates for time-
limited and parking meter parking and may increase or decrease rates and vary
the available parking time limits as appropriate.
   (C)   No person shall operate a vehicle upon any off-street parking area:
      (1)   Without yielding to pedestrians.
      (2)   Without burning headlights. This subsection only applies to those
vehicles operated on a city parking deck.
      (3)   Without yielding to any other vehicle as required.
      (4)   Without first stopping the vehicle at the lot, facility, or parking
deck level intersections.
      (5)   In excess of five miles per hour.
      (6)   To the right of the centerline except when accessing a parking
space.
      (7)   In any manner to block a vehicle attempting to enter or exit a
parking space.
      (8)   To prevent the use of any parking space by the person for whom the
parking space has been designated or assigned.
   (D)   Additional restrictions for use of a city parking garage or deck. In
addition to the prohibitions and restrictions as stated in this section, it
shall be unlawful for any person to be present in a city parking garage or
parking deck unless the person is:
      (1)   In a vehicle which is in a parking space or on its way to or from a
parking space.
      (2)   Walking to or from a parked vehicle lawfully parked in the parking
garage or parking deck.
      (3)   An employee or agent of the city whose presence in the parking
garage or parking deck is required in connection with his duties or otherwise
authorized.
   Unauthorized presence in the city parking garages or parking deck and
subsequent refusal to leave after being ordered to do so by a police officer or
city official shall constitute trespass.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-112 LOST TICKET FEE. 
   If, prior to exiting an off-street parking area, a driver loses or otherwise
fails to produce the issued parking ticket allowing parking, the driver will be
required to pay the maximum rate allowed for a full day's parking prior to
exiting the off-street parking area. Alternatively, the City Manager may mail
the owner of the vehicle a billing notice charging the maximum rate allowed for
a full day's parking.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
PART 3. DESIGNATED PARKING AREAS; GENERAL RESTRICTIONS
SEC. 10-2-113 DESIGNATION AND IDENTIFICATION OF PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   Parking areas and parking spaces designated. The Director of
Engineering may designate any one or more of the following parking areas or
parking spaces in the city regulating or prohibiting on-street or off-street
parking:
      (1)   Loading zones.
      (2)   Time-limited parking.
      (3)   Parking by permit.
      (4)   Leased parking.
      (5)   Controlled access parking.
      (6)   Reserved parking.
   (B)   Designated parking areas and parking spaces identified. Designated
parking areas and parking spaces shall be identified in the Schedule of Traffic
Regulations and otherwise by one or more of the following giving notice
thereof: signage, painted lines, painted parking tire stops, curb markings, or
parking surface painting.
   (C)   Additional requirements for prohibited parking or time-limited parking
areas or parking spaces. In addition to any other markings or identification
methods, in all time-limited parking areas or parking spaces and whenever in
this chapter that any parking time limit is otherwise imposed or on-street or
off-street parking is prohibited, there shall be appropriate signs giving
notice thereof, and no regulations shall be effective unless the signs are
installed and in place at the time of any alleged offense.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
Subpart a. Loading Zones
SEC. 10-2-114 STOPPING OR PARKING IN LOADING ZONES.
   The city may designate by signage, painted lines, curb markings, or parking
surface painting specified dates and times for use of parking areas for loading
zones. During the dates and times so established, no person shall stop or park
a vehicle in a loading zone except for the purpose of loading or unloading
freight, goods, passengers, equipment, or other property. A vehicle which is
loading or unloading pursuant to this section may remain in a loading zone for
a period not to exceed one hour.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-115 PUBLIC CARRIER STOPS AND STANDS. 
   No person shall stop or park a vehicle other than a bus at a bus stop,
rideshare at a rideshare stop, or taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any stop has
been officially designated and appropriately signed, except that the driver of
a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while
actually engaging in loading or unloading passengers when stopping does not
interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter the
location of the bus stop or taxicab stand.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
Subpart b. Time-limited Parking
SEC. 10-2-116 TIME-LIMITED PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   Designated time-limited parking zones. The city designates the
following time-limited parking zones:
      (1)   Uptown area time-limited parking zone. Time-limited parking in the
Uptown area as further defined and identified by the City Manager.
      (2)   Residential area time-limited parking zone. Time-limited parking in
residential areas as further defined and identified by the City Manager.
   (B)   Uptown area permit parking or residential area permit parking within a
time-limited parking zone. On-street and off-street parking areas or spaces
within the area of a time-limited parking zone may be designated for Uptown
area permit parking or residential area permit parking by the City Manager.
When an Uptown area permit parking area or space or a residential area permit
parking area or space is properly marked as reserved for use by respective
permittees or equivalent designation sufficient to inform the public that the
parking area or space is reserved for its intended use and any other parking is
prohibited, the time limits imposed in the time-limited parking zone or fee
associated therewith shall not apply to that area, those areas, that space, or
those spaces when a parked vehicle has a properly displayed and valid Uptown
area parking permit or a residential area parking permit.
   (C)   Leased parking within a time-limited parking zone. On-street parking
and off-street parking areas or spaces may be leased by the city within the
area of a time-limited parking zone. When a leased parking area or space is
properly marked with "leased parking only" signs or other equivalent
designation sufficient to inform the public that the parking area or space is
reserved for its intended use and any other parking is prohibited, the time
limits imposed in the time-limited parking zone or fee associated therewith
shall not apply to those leased parking areas or leased parking spaces.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-117 TIME-LIMITED PARKING CONTROLLED BY PARKING METERS.
   (A)   Designation. The City Manager may designate any portion of any time-
limited parking zone to be controlled by parking meter and may specify the
length of time for parking in each parking meter space. The payment amount
required to park in a parking space controlled by a parking meter will be set
forth in the Manual of Fees.
   (B)   Days and hours of operation. Parking meters shall operate every day
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., except Sundays and holidays, at
any time the Chief of Police has temporarily suspended parking enforcement not
to exceed 48 hours, or unless otherwise posted by sign or other marking
authorized by the City Manager. Within the meaning of this section, the term a
holiday shall include only January 1, July 4, December 25, Thanksgiving Day as
observed in the state, and such other days as shall be designated holidays by
the city.
   (C)   Payment and activation of parking meter. Upon entering the parking
meter space, the operator of a vehicle shall immediately pay or cause to be
paid such payment as may be required for the activation and operation of the
parking meter controlling the parking meter space and as is designated by
proper direction on the meter or by sign and when required by the direction on
the meter or by sign, the operator of the vehicle, upon such payment, shall
also set in operation the timing mechanism on the parking meter, when so
required in accordance with directions properly appearing thereon.
   (D)   Lawful use.  Upon payment as required and the setting of the timing
mechanism in operation when so required, the parking space may lawfully be
occupied by the vehicle during the period of time which has been prescribed for
the part of the street, parking area, or parking space in which the parking
space is located.
   (E)   Failure to pay or activate parking meter prohibited. It shall be
unlawful to fail to pay the required payment necessary for the activation and
operation of the parking meter controlling the parking meter space or to set
the timing mechanism in operation when so required.
   (F)   Unused time. A person parking a vehicle in a parking meter space
wherein unused time remains on the parking meter controlling the parking meter
space shall not be required to make a payment so long as his or her occupancy
of the space does not exceed the indicated unused parking time limit.
   (G)   Overtime parking prohibited. It shall be unlawful to park or to allow
a vehicle to remain parked in any parking space controlled by a parking meter
beyond the time limit set for the parking space or as otherwise as designated
or posted at the particular parking meter area or space.
   (H)   Extended parking prohibited.  It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to
occupy any portion of a parking meter space for more than 24 consecutive hours,
regardless of whether or not the parking meter is activated. The vehicle will
be subject to be towed.
   (I)   Occupation of parking space when parking meter shows a violation
prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any vehicle to remain
or be placed in any parking meter space while the parking meter is displaying a
signal indicating that the vehicle occupying the parking meter space has
already been parked beyond the period of time prescribed for the parking meter
space or when the vehicle occupies the parking meter space beyond the period of
time for which payment has been made as prescribed for the parking meter space.
   (J)   Cumulative violations of expired parking meter. Any vehicle in
violation of this section will be subject to the issuance of an additional
citation for each additional period of 30 minutes that the vehicle remains in
violation of any provisions of this section.
   (K)   Defacing or injuring parking meters. It shall be unlawful for any
person to deface, injure, tamper with, open without lawful authority or
willfully break, destroy, or impair the usefulness of any installed parking
meter.
   (L)   Deposit of slugs or other substitute devices. It shall be unlawful for
any person to deposit or cause to be deposited in any parking meter any slug,
device, metal substance, or any other object or substitute for lawful payment.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-118 TIME-LIMITED PARKING CONTROLLED BY SIGNS. 
   (A)   Designation. The City Manager may designate any portion of any time-
limited parking zone to be controlled by parking signs and may specify the
length of time for parking in each parking space controlled by such signage.
   (B)   Days and hours of operation. Unless otherwise posted by sign or other
marking authorized by the City Manager, time-limited parking zones shall
operate 24 hours per day, seven days per week unless the Chief of Police has
temporarily suspended parking enforcement not to exceed 48 hours.
   (C)   Uptown area time-limited parking controlled by signs. In the Uptown
area a vehicle may park in a time-limited parking area or time-limited parking
space more than once during a day, provided the vehicle is moved prior to the
expiration of the time which is legally allowed, and provided that the vehicle
does not return to the same time-limited parking area for a minimum of one
hour.
   (D)   Violation of time-limited parking controlled by signs. When signs are
installed adjacent to parking spaces giving notice thereof, no person shall
park a vehicle for longer than the time limits stated on the signs.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-119 TIME-LIMITED PARKING SPACES RESERVED FOR ELECTRIC VEHICLES.
   (A)   Designation. The City Manager may designate certain on-street or off-
street parking spaces located at or near city installed electric charging
stations for use only by electric vehicles. Spaces designated as reserved for
electric vehicles shall be clearly marked as such by one or more of the
following: signage, painted lines, curb markings, parking surface painting, or
equivalent designation sufficient to inform the public that the parking area or
space is reserved for its intended use and any other parking is prohibited. The
payment amount required to park in a in a parking space reserved for an
electric vehicle will be set forth in the Manual of Fees.
   (B)   Violations. It shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Park any nonelectric vehicle in a parking space reserved for an
electric vehicle.
      (2)   Park in a parking space reserved for electric vehicles if the
electric vehicle is not attached to the electric vehicle charging station.
      (3)   Park in a space reserved for electric vehicles without first making
the appropriate payment for the space as may be regulated by a parking meter.
      (4)   Park the electric vehicle in the parking space exceeding the time
allowed.
      (5)   Remain in a space reserved for electric vehicles after the electric
vehicle has been fully charged.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-120 COMPUTING OVERTIME VIOLATIONS OF TIME-LIMITED PARKING.   
   The moving of a parked vehicle from one time-limited parking space
identified in this chapter to another parking space identified in this chapter
in the same block is deemed to be one continuous parking period for the purpose
of determining any overtime parking violations.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-121 SEPARATE AND CONTINUING VIOLATIONS OF TIME-LIMITED PARKING.
   Each 30 minutes that a vehicle is parked in the same time-limited space as
identified in this article following the issuance of a parking ticket shall
constitute a separate violation subject to issuance of a new parking ticket and
additional civil penalty to be applied to such vehicle.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
Subpart c. Parking by Permit
SEC. 10-2-122 UPTOWN AREA PERMIT PARKING.
   (A)   Designation. The City Manager may designate Uptown area permit parking
areas or parking spaces in any portion of the Uptown area time-limited parking
zone.
   (B)   Availability of permits. The total number of Uptown area parking
permits shall be determined by the City Manager and shall be based on the total
number of parking spaces made available for that purpose. The number of Uptown
area parking permits issued for a fiscal year shall not exceed 110% of the
total number of parking spaces made available for Uptown area permit parking.
   (C)   Property of the city. All Uptown area parking area permits shall be
the property of the City of Greenville to the exclusion of any other property
interest.
   (D)   Eligibility for issuance of an Uptown area parking permit.
      (1)   Residents. A resident who resides within the Uptown area is
eligible to make application to the city and receive an Uptown area parking
permit for each vehicle which is principally operated by the resident provided
that a permit is available by the city for issuance. The Uptown area parking
permit may be either of the following:
         (a)   A reserved Uptown area parking permit.
         (b)   An unreserved Uptown area parking permit.
      (2)   Businesses and employees. A business that is located within the
Uptown area and each employee of that business is eligible to make application
to the city and receive an unreserved Uptown area parking permit for each
vehicle which is principally operated by the business or employee provided that
a permit is available by the city for issuance. An owner of a business that is
located in the Uptown area is eligible to receive an unreserved Uptown area
parking permit for shared use by the employees of the business provided that
permits are available and provided that the owner shall be eligible to receive
no more permits than the number of employees of the business but in no event to
exceed 10 permits.
   (E)   Application for an Uptown area parking permit. Before an Uptown area
parking permit can be issued, a completed application for an Uptown area
parking permit shall be filed with the City Manager on forms or in an
electronic format as provided by the city and a permit filing fee as
established in the Manual of Fees shall be paid to the city. The application
for an Uptown area parking permit shall be verified under oath and shall
furnish the following minimum information:
      (1)   If the applicant is a resident, the name and address of the
resident.
      (2)   If the applicant is a business employee, the lawful corporate or
business name and address of the business.
      (3)   If the applicant is a business, the lawful corporate or business
name and address of the business; the name and address of the business owner;
the number of permits requested, proof of business employees' employment with
the applicant, all or part of which may be required by separate affidavit.
   The City Manager may also require the production of vehicle registration
information, which may include presentation of registration cards and such
other personal or business identification and documentation such as driver
license, articles of incorporation, or other official records deemed necessary
to satisfy the eligibility requirements of this section, including but not
limited to utility or other billing statements or affidavits. The City Manager
shall verify the information provided by the applicant and contained on the
application prior to issuance of an Uptown area parking permit.
   (F)   Permit fee. The City Manager shall issue Uptown area parking permits
each year and a fee shall be charged. The amount of the fee shall be set out in
the Manual of Fees. The charge shall not be prorated for partial years. There
shall also be a charge for duplicate or lost permits, and that charge shall be
set out in the Manual of Fees. Uptown area parking permits shall be issued on a
fiscal year basis and shall expire at midnight on June 30th of each year.
   (G)   Spaces not guaranteed. The purchase of an unreserved Uptown area
parking permit does not guarantee availability of a parking space or reserve a
parking space within the designated Uptown parking area.
   (H)   No additional parking fee required. There shall be no additional fee
required for a vehicle to park in any off-street parking area when a vehicle
has a properly displayed valid Uptown area parking permit.
   (I)   Proper display of permit required. The issued and assigned Uptown area
parking permit shall be displayed so that it may be viewed from the front and
rear of the vehicle by hanging it from the front windshield rearview mirror of
the vehicle for which it was issued. It shall be unlawful to display the Uptown
area parking permit in a manner inconsistent with this section. The City
Manager is authorized to establish additional regulations relating to the form,
issuance, and display of Uptown area parking permits not inconsistent with the
other provisions of this section.
   (J)   Violations. In addition to any other violations of this section, it
shall be unlawful:
      (1)   For any person to falsely represent himself or herself as being
eligible for an Uptown area parking permit; to willfully make any false
statement in an application for a residential area parking permit; or to
furnish any false information in an application to the City Manager in order to
obtain an Uptown area parking permit.
       (2)   For any person to display an Uptown area parking permit upon a
vehicle, wherein the person or the vehicle is not authorized or eligible for an
Uptown area parking permit.
      (3)   For any person to charge any fee to any person for use of an Uptown
area parking permit except for the City Manager.
   The City Manager is authorized to revoke the Uptown area parking permit of
any permittee found to be in violation of this section and, upon written
notification thereof, the permittee shall surrender the permit to the City
Manager. No refund shall be issued and the violator will not be eligible to
reapply for a new permit one calendar year from the date of the notice of
revocation. Failure by a permittee to surrender an Uptown area parking permit,
when notified by the City Manager of the requirement to surrender same, shall
constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-123 RESIDENTIAL AREA PARKING PERMIT. 
   (A)   Designation. The Director of Engineering shall designate residential
area parking permit areas or parking spaces based upon any of the following:
      (1)   Areas based upon the following minimum criteria as determined by a
study by the Director of Engineering:
         (a)   The majority of the street frontage, measured at the right-of-
way line, of the proposed residential parking area must be in a residential
zoning district.
         (b)   The proposed residential parking area shall be applicable on a
minimum per block basis. The proposed residential parking area may apply to one
or both sides of the block.
         (c)   A petition, identifying the boundaries of the streets within the
proposed residential parking area, must be presented to the Director of
Engineering and signed by adult residents of at least 51% of the living units
contained in each block face of the proposed residential parking area.
         (d)   A parking study must be completed, conducted between the hours
of 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. on a weekday with one observation made each two
hours. The study must reveal that at least 70% of the parking capacity of the
proposed controlled residential parking area is occupied and that a minimum of
33% of the parked vehicles must be registered to addresses outside the proposed
residential parking area.
      (2)   Area within Parking Area A, being a portion of the area described
in City Code §
9-4-200.2(A)(3) within which a University Neighborhood Revitalization
Initiative (UNRI) Overlay District may be located, and being the area bounded
on the south by East Fifth Street, on the east by Elm Street, on the north by
East First Street, and on the west by Reade Street except for the following
streets:
         (a)   Portions of streets which abut property owned by the State of
North Carolina.
      (3)   Area within Parking Area C, being a portion of the area described
in City Code §
9-4-200.2(A)(3) within which a University Neighborhood Revitalization
Initiative (UNRI) Overlay District may be located, and being the area bounded
on the south by East First Street, on the east by Elm Street, extended to the
Tar River, on the north by the Tar River, and on the west by Reade Street,
extended to the Tar River, except for the following streets:
         (a)   Portions of streets which abut Woodlawn Park; and
         (b)   Portions of streets which abut the South Tar River Greenway.
      (4)   Areas not included within Parking Area A or Parking Area C which
are designated in the Schedule of Traffic Regulations as controlled residential
parking areas as of June 10, 2013.
      (5)   Area within Parking Area G, being that area known as the Glen
Arthur Neighborhood and which is that area bounded on the south by the west
side of Evans Street, south side of East 14th Street, east side of Charles
Boulevard, and the north side of East 10th Street.
   (B)   In accordance with the provisions of this chapter, the Director of
Engineering is authorized to amend the Schedule of Traffic Regulations by
designating the streets or portions of streets within the city which meet the
criteria of this section as residential parking areas. The streets or portions
of streets within designated residential parking areas shall be designated by
signage, painted lines, curb markings, or parking surface painting as
residential parking areas in which parking is prohibited except by permit.
   (C)   Property of the city. All residential area parking area permits shall
be the property of the City of Greenville to the exclusion of any other
property interest.
   (D)   Eligibility for issuance of residential area parking permit.
Residential area parking permits shall be designated as either of the
following:
      (1)   Temporary residential area parking permit. A resident who has lived
for one year or less at a single residence located on either side of a street
where at least one side of the street has been designated as a residential
parking area is eligible to receive one temporary residential area parking
permit for each vehicle which is principally operated by the resident. The
temporary residential area parking permit is valid for one year.
      (2)   Permanent residential area parking permit. A resident who has lived
for five years or more at a single residence located on either side of a street
where at least one side of the street has been designated as a residential
parking area is eligible to receive one permanent residential area parking
permit for each vehicle which is principally operated by the resident. The
permanent residential area parking permit is valid for five years.
   (E)   Application for a residential area parking permit. Before a
residential area parking permit can be issued, a completed application for a
residential area parking permit shall be filed with the Collections Division of
the Financial Services Department on forms provided by the city and a permit
filing fee as established in the Manual of Fees shall be paid to the city. The
application for a residential area parking permit shall be verified under oath
and shall provide the name and address of the resident applicant. The
Collections Division of the Financial Services Department may also require the
production of vehicle registration information, which may include presentation
of registration cards and such other personal identification and documentation
such as driver license or other official records deemed necessary to satisfy
the eligibility requirements of this section, including but not limited to
utility or other billing statements or affidavits. The Director of Financial
Services Department shall verify the information provided by the applicant and
contained on the application prior to issuance of a residential area parking
permit.
   (F)   The residential area parking permit. The issued residential area
parking permit shall include the year of the permit, license plate/registration
plate number of the assigned vehicle, and the letter designating the
residential parking area to which the residential area parking permit is
assigned. The residential area parking permit is not transferable to another
vehicle or to another person.
   (G)   Permit fee. The Collections Division of the Financial Services
Department shall issue residential area parking permits and a fee shall be
charged. The amount of the fee shall be set out in the Manual of Fees. The
charge shall not be prorated for partial years. There shall also be a charge
for duplicate or lost permits, and that charge shall be set out in the Manual
of Fees. Temporary residential area parking permits shall be issued on a fiscal
year basis and shall expire at midnight on June 30th of each year. Permanent
residential area parking permits shall be issued on a fiscal year basis and
shall expire at midnight on June 30th of the fifth year after issuance.
   (H)   Spaces not guaranteed. The purchase of a residential area parking
permit does not guarantee availability of a parking space or reserve a parking
space within a designated residential parking area.
   (I)   Interaction with time-limited parking. When the residential area
permit parking areas or spaces are properly marked for residential area permit
parking or equivalent designation sufficient to inform the public that the
parking area or space is reserved for its intended use and any other parking is
prohibited, any otherwise controlling time limitation or fee associated
therewith shall not apply to these spaces when a parked vehicle has a properly
displayed valid residential area parking permit.
   (J)   Proper display of permit required. The issued residential area parking
permit shall be attached to the left rear bumper or the left rear window of the
vehicle for which the permit is assigned as specified on the permit and shall
contain the vehicle license number, year of issue, and the identification
number of the residential parking area for which the residential area parking
permit was issued.
   (K)   Violations. In addition to any other violations of this section, it
shall be unlawful:
      (1)   For any person to falsely represent himself or herself as being
eligible for a residential area parking permit; to willfully make any false
statement in an application for a residential area parking permit; or to
furnish any false information in an application to the Director of Financial
Services in order to obtain a residential area parking permit.
      (2)   For any person to display a residential area parking permit upon a
vehicle, wherein the person or the vehicle is not authorized or eligible for
the residential area parking permit or
      (3)   For any person to display a residential area parking permit upon a
vehicle unless the vehicle displays the same vehicle license number as shown on
the residential parking permit.
      (4)   To use a residential area parking permit for purposes of daily
commuting to the residential area or for purposes of storage of nonresidential
vehicles.
      (5)   For any person to charge any fee to any person for use of a
residential area parking permit except for the Director of Financial Services.
   The Director of Financial Services is authorized to revoke the residential
area parking permit of any permittee found to be in violation of this section
and, upon written notification thereof, the permittee shall surrender the
permit to the Director of Financial Services. No refund shall be issued and the
violator will not be eligible for a new permit for one calendar year from the
date of the notice of revocation. Failure by a permittee to surrender a
residential area parking permit, when notified by the Director of Financial
Services of the requirement to surrender same, shall constitute a violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-124 COMPLIANCE TO SIGNS. 
   (A)   When signs are erected or otherwise installed along or adjacent to on-
street or off-street parking designated as an Uptown area parking area or a
residential parking area giving notice that parking is prohibited during
specified time periods except by permit or equivalent designation sufficient to
inform the public that the parking area or space is reserved for its intended
use and any other parking is prohibited, no person shall park a vehicle during
restricted periods as designated in the Schedule of Traffic Regulations, unless
the vehicle has a properly displayed residential parking permit decal for the
area.
   (B)   When signs are erected or otherwise installed along or adjacent to on-
street or offstreet parking designated as an Uptown area parking area or a
residential parking area giving notice that the parking time is limited to two
hours during specified time periods except by permit or equivalent designation
sufficient to inform the public that the parking area or space is reserved for
its intended use and any other parking is prohibited, no person shall park a
vehicle for longer than two hours during restricted periods as designated in
the Schedule of Traffic Regulations, unless the vehicle has a properly
displayed and issued parking permit for the designated area.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-125 SPECIAL OR TEMPORARY PARKING PERMIT.
   The City Manager is authorized to issue special or temporary parking permits
which permit the holder thereof to park a vehicle displaying such permit at a
location on a public street in a residential area where the parking is
otherwise prohibited.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
Subpart d. Leased Parking
SEC. 10-2-126 OFF-STREET LEASED PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   Authority of City Manager or designated administrative officer. In
accordance with the provisions of G.S. 160A-272, the City Manager and any city
administrative officer designated by the City Manager, including but not
limited to the Director of Financial Services, is authorized as may be
necessary to lease certain designated off-street parking areas for a period not
to exceed one year and that the City Manager and said administrative officer is
further authorized to negotiate and modify any terms necessary for the lease
that are in the best interest of the city.
   (B)   Designation. The City Manager may designate off-street parking areas
or portions thereof in the Uptown area subject to lease in accordance with this
section.
   (C)   Eligibility. Only residents who reside within the Uptown area or who
work in the Uptown area are eligible to apply for leased parking.
   (D)   Execution of lease agreement and payment of fee required. Before being
authorized to park in a designated off-street leased parking area an applicant
shall complete and execute a lease agreement with the city to be filed with the
City Manager on forms provided by the city and a leased parking filing fee as
established in the Manual of Fees shall be paid to the city. The lease
agreement shall be verified under oath. The City Manager may also require the
production of vehicle registration information, which may include presentation
of registration cards and such other personal or business identification and
documentation such as driver license, articles of incorporation, or other
official records deemed necessary to satisfy the eligibility requirements of
this section, including but not limited to utility or other billing statements
or affidavits. The City Manager shall verify the information provided by the
applicant and contained on the application prior execution of the lease.
   (E)   Lessee's responsibilities; towing. In addition to all responsibilities
and obligations identified in the lease agreement entered into pursuant to this
section the lessee shall be solely responsible for monitoring and controlling
parking in all parking spaces subject to the lease agreement and maintaining
and monitoring the parking area including authorizing the towing of any
unauthorized vehicles from the leased parking area. The city shall not be
responsible for the enforcement or towing of any vehicle illegally parked in a
leased parking space and any towing that may be required is the sole
responsibility of the lessee. The tower is responsible for ensuring compliance
with the provisions of G.S. 20-219.20.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
Subpart e. Controlled Access Parking
SEC 10-2-127. CONTROLLED ACCESS PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   Designation. The City Manager may designate certain off-street parking
areas or portions thereof to be controlled access parking areas.
   (B)   Signs required. Each controlled access parking area shall have
appropriate signs giving notice of the defined boundary and times of control
thereof or equivalent designation sufficient to inform the public that the
parking area or space is reserved for its intended use and any other parking is
prohibited and said signs shall be located at each parking space or entry point
to the controlled access parking area.
   (C)   Violations. It shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To transfer or to use assigned access cards or electronic devices
for vehicles not registered for that specific controlled access parking area or
for that card or device. If any person uses or allows to be used his or her
access card or device to knowingly enable another vehicle to enter or exit a
controlled access parking area without paying the applicable parking fee or
permit fee, such person shall be in violation.
      (2)   To enter or park in a controlled access parking area during the
posted operation hours without paying the required fee or displaying a valid
permit for that controlled access parking area. Whether or not a gate is open
during the hours of pay parking operation is not an indication that an
unauthorized vehicle may legally drive through and park in the controlled
access parking area.
      (3)   To deface, damage, tamper with, break, destroy, impair the
usefulness of, evade without tendering due payment, or open without lawful
authority an entry or exit gate or related equipment. A fee will be charged for
replacing damaged access mechanisms, in addition to the applicable parking
fine.
      (4)   To tailgate or allow tailgating.
      (5)   To be parked in a controlled access parking area beyond the period
of authorized parking time, applicable to the parking space in which such
vehicle is parked. Each hour that any such violation continues shall constitute
a separate offense.
   (D)   Days and hours of operation; fees. Controlled access parking areas
shall operate 24 hours per day, seven days per week, unless the Chief of Police
has temporarily suspended parking enforcement not to exceed 48 hours, or unless
otherwise posted by sign or other marking authorized by the City Manager. The
amount of the applicable fees for parking within each controlled access parking
area shall be determined by the City Manager and shall be listed in the Manual
of Fees.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
Subpart f. Reserved Parking
SEC. 10-2-128 RESERVED PARKING. 
   (A)   Generally. A sufficient number of parking spaces shall be reserved to
accommodate certain vehicles including but not limited to authorized emergency
vehicles, public service vehicles, government-owned vehicles, motorcycles,
electric vehicles, and vehicles owned by residents that reside within the
Uptown area and to meet special needs as they arise. The City Manager in
consultation with the Director of Engineering shall determine the precise
location and status of reserved spaces. Requests for reserving spaces for
individuals, departments, or agencies must receive approval from the City
Manager. The annual fee for a reserved parking spaces shall be defined in the
Manual of Fees.
   (B)   Parking in reserved space prohibited unless authorized. It is unlawful
for any unauthorized person to park a vehicle in a reserved space. Notice of
the reserved status of a parking space shall be prominently posted at the
space. Once posted, such spaces are reserved at all times unless otherwise
indicated.
   (C)   Law enforcement vehicle parking. Parking areas or parking spaces may
be designated as parking spaces for law enforcement vehicles only. The location
and number of these parking areas or parking spaces shall be determined by the
City Manager and these spaces shall be designated by sign or other markings.
Only official government owned law enforcement vehicles may be parked in the
spaces designated for law enforcement vehicles under the provisions of this
subsection.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-129 CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEE PARKING AND SPACES RESERVED FOR CITY
BUSINESS.
   (A)   Designation. Upon any off-street parking area, the City Manager is
authorized and directed to cause, designate, and define by official marking or
signage parking lots or spaces assigned to or reserved for the exclusive use by
city officials, city employees, and for persons engaged in business with the
city.
   (B)   Reserved lots for exclusive use by city employees. As may be
designated by the City Manager and defined by proper marking or signage, any
lot owned by the city may be limited for exclusive parking of vehicles owned by
the city and vehicles operated by city employees and used by them officially
and regularly in connection with the performance of their duties as city
employees.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
   (C)   Parking prohibited. Unless the vehicle is registered with the city
allowing parking in a designated, assigned, or reserved city employee lot or
space, it shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on any
lot or in such space reserved for city employees. Unless an occupant of a
vehicle is engaged in business with the city, it shall be unlawful for any
person to stop or park any vehicle on any lot or in such space reserved for
city business and in no event shall the vehicle remain in the space for longer
than 24 hours.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
PART 4. PARKING OF CERTAIN VEHICLES
SEC. 10-2-130 TRUCKS RESTRICTED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a loaded truck or other
vehicle on any local or secondary city street in any subdivision or development
complex when such truck or vehicle is loaded beyond 7,500 pounds per wheel;
dual wheels shall be considered as one wheel load and one contact area, and any
truck or vehicle using local or secondary streets shall be limited to six dual
wheels (three rear axles).
   (B)   Local streets and secondary streets shall mean paved streets or roads
designed to carry very little traffic and limited to residential areas where
heaviest wheel loads expected are passenger vehicles and light trucks.
   (C)   All two-axle trucks, three-axle trucks and tractor-trailer trucks are
hereby prohibited from traveling or parking on the streets or parts of streets
designated in the Schedule of Traffic Regulations, except that such trucks may
travel on such streets or parts of streets when necessary to load or unload
commodities at a destination on the street. Signs shall be posted at all
junction points and turns where necessary, and at approaches to the streets or
parts of streets on which trucks are prohibited, stating that truck traffic is
prohibited or directing truck traffic in accordance with this article.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-131 PARKING OF CERTAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED AND RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No person shall park a manufactured home as defined by G.S. 143-143.9
(6); commercial motor vehicle, farm tractor, house trailer, implement of
husbandry, inoperable vehicle, on-track equipment, motor home or house car,
school bus, school activity bus, property-hauling vehicle, recreational
vehicle, junk vehicle, inoperable flood vehicle, inoperable reconstructed
vehicle, road tractor, truck tractor, or utility vehicle as defined by G.S. 20-
4.01; or other commercial vehicle, mobile home, bus, or trailer at any time on
any street within any area having a residential district zoning classification
as defined by the Zoning Ordinance for Greenville, North Carolina nor shall any
said vehicle be parked for a period of more than two consecutive hours on any
other street.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a vehicle defined in
subsection (A) parked for the purpose of the expeditious unloading and delivery
or pickup and loading of materials, temporarily parked in cases of emergency
involving a mechanical breakdown necessitating repairs, or parked on a street
or a part of a street, in an area having a nonresidential district zoning
classification, which has been designated as permitting the parking of any such
vehicle in the Schedule of Traffic Regulations.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person, for camping, living, or sleeping
purposes, to stop or park any vehicle on or upon a street, alley, bridge,
sidewalk, an on-street parking area, an off-street parking area, or any portion
of property owned, operated, occupied, leased, or controlled by the city,
except where signs are erected designating the location as an authorized
campsite.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, the posting of
signs shall not be required for the provisions of this section to be effective.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
PART 5. SPECIAL EVENTS AND TEMPORARY CLOSING OF STREETS
SEC. 10-2-149 TEMPORARY PARKING RESTRICTIONS FOR SPECIAL EVENTS.
   (A)   Upon a determination that the suspension or prohibition will prevent a
safety or operational hazard or assist in the avoidance of a safety or
operational hazard to the citizens of Greenville, the Chief of Police and the
Director of Engineering are each authorized to temporarily suspend parking
restrictions or temporarily prohibit parking on any street, alley, bridge, or
upon property owned, operated, occupied, leased, or controlled by the city,
including but not limited to any portion of on-street and off-street parking
areas, for a special event for a period of time as needed for the special
event, but not in excess of 48 hours.
   (B)   When parking has been temporarily prohibited pursuant to the
provisions of this section, notification of the prohibition shall be made as
follows.
      (1)   At least 48 hours prior to the commencement of the time period
which the restriction or prohibition of parking is effective, notice will be
posted in at least two conspicuous locations adjacent to or upon the on the
street, alley, bridge, or upon property owned, operated, occupied, leased, or
controlled by the city which will have prohibited parking. The notice shall
remain posted until the expiration of the time period which the prohibition of
parking is effective.
      (2)   The notice shall state the time and date the parking will be
prohibited.
      (3)   The notice shall state that violators are subject to a parking
ticket and any vehicle parked in violation will be towed at the owner's
expense.
   (C)   No person shall park a vehicle on a street, alley, bridge, or upon
property owned, operated, occupied, leased, or controlled by the city in
violation of a temporary parking prohibition designated pursuant to the
provisions of this section.
   (D)   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact
alter, deface, injure, knock down, possess or remove any notice posted pursuant
to the provisions of this section.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-150 TEMPORARY CLOSING OF STREETS FOR SPECIAL EVENTS.
   (A)   Required. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, organization, or
entity of any kind or nature to temporarily close or block off in any manner
any public street, alley, bridge, sidewalk, lot, parking lot, garage, parking
garage, or any other location or facility owned, occupied, or leased by the
city or to participate in, advertise for, or in any way promote a temporary
street closing, except as allowed by state or federal law, or as provided by
this section.
   (B)   Application. Any person, firm, or organization desiring to temporarily
close or block off in any manner any public street, alley, bridge, sidewalk,
lot, parking lot, garage, parking garage, or any other location or facility
owned, occupied, or leased by the city shall apply for a permit for temporary
street closing on an application form provided by the City Manager.
   (C)   Consideration by City Manager. In considering requests for a permit,
the City Manager shall consider but shall not be limited to the following
issues in determining whether to deny or issue a permit requesting any
temporary street closing:
      (1)   The nature, time, size, and duration of the event for which the
requested locations will be closed.
      (2)   The safety and welfare of organizers, city employees, participants,
and surrounding residents.
      (3)   Previous experience with the applicant, including any members of
the firm, group, organization, or entity requesting temporary street closing.
      (4)   Other activities in the vicinity of the locations requested to be
closed.
      (5)   The frequency of applications.
      (6)   The effect on traffic patterns, flow, and safety.
   (D)   Time for filing application. The application for temporary street
closing shall be filed at least ten business days prior to the scheduled event
or any advertising for same. Failure to file on time will result in denial of a
permit, unless the City Manager determines that due to unusual circumstances,
good cause exists to waive this requirement.
   (E)   Conditions on permits. The City Manager or Chief of Police shall have
authority to impose any rules, regulations, and requirements deemed necessary
on temporary street closing permits to reduce or minimize the dangers and
hazards to vehicular or pedestrian traffic and to the general public. Such
conditions may include but shall not be limited to a limitation on number of
participants, duration, and noise levels.
   (F)   Vendors. Upon issuance of a temporary street closing permit, the
applicant shall have full authority and control over the sale, distribution, or
other transfer of any food, beverages, goods, wares, or merchandise, arts or
crafts, or other concessions, games, and activities during the event for which
the permitted locations will be temporarily closed, and shall be fully
responsible and liable for damage to public property and litter from
concessions, vendors, and participants the permit area.
   (G)   Litter. Applicants must provide for the collection and removal of all
trash, garbage, and litter on all areas authorized to be closed by way of the
temporary street closing permit and surrounding areas resulting from the
special event for which the permitted locations were temporarily closed. The
area must be restored to its original condition immediately following the
special event.
   (H)   Barricades. Upon issuance of a temporary street closing permit under
this section, barricades from the Director of Engineering shall be used.
Applicants will be held responsible for any damage to barricades.
   (I)   Revocation of temporary street closing permit. Any temporary street
closing permit issued pursuant to this section may be revoked by the City
Manager, Chief of Police, or any onduty police officer, and the barricades
removed at any time when, by reason of emergency, disorder, traffic conditions,
violation of this section, or of any permit conditions or restrictions, or
undue burden on public services, it is determined that the health, safety, or
welfare of the public or protection of property requires revocation.
   (J)   Temporary street closing by city; exemption. The City Manager and
Chief of Police may authorize any temporary street closing as may be required
for municipal purposes, such as street repair or emergencies and the city is
hereby exempt from this section.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
ARTICLE D. ENFORCEMENT, PENALTIES, TOWING, AND APPEALS
SEC. 10-2-151 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Operator to comply with chapter; effect of proof of ownership. The
person actually operating or in control of the operation of the vehicle at the
time that the vehicle is parked or involved in a violation of this chapter
shall be charged with the duty of complying with the provisions of this
chapter; provided that proof of ownership of any vehicle found parked in
violation of this chapter shall be prima facie evidence that the owner parked
the vehicle.
   (B)   Notice of violations; duties of police and parking enforcement
officers. If any vehicle shall be found illegally parked, parked overtime, or
otherwise in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, it shall be
the duty of the Chief of Police, other police officers, or parking enforcement
officers as designated by the Chief of Police to attach to the vehicle a notice
to the owner or operator thereof, if the owner or operator is absent, or to
deliver to the owner or operator, if he or she is present, a notice to the
effect that the vehicle has been illegally parked, parked overtime, or in
violation of a provision of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-152 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF CHAPTER. 
   (A)   Civil penalty by ticket for violations other than time-limited
parking. Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter shall subject the violator to a civil penalty by way
of a ticket in the amount of $50.
   (B)   Graduated civil penalties for violations of time-limited parking.
Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, violations of any of the provisions
of this chapter regarding time-limited parking shall subject the violator to
graduated civil penalties as follows:
      (1)   First violation. An issued written warning.
      (2)   Second violation. A second violation of any provision regulating
timelimited parking shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $10.
      (3)   Third and subsequent violations. A third violation and any
subsequent violation of any provision regulating time-limited parking shall
subject the violator to a civil penalty of $20.
   (C)   Late Penalties for violations of Article C. of this chapter. Unless
otherwise provided herein, if payment for a violation of any of the provisions
of Article C. of this Chapter is not made within ten days of issuance of the
ticket, an additional $15 late fee will be due. If payment for the violation is
not made within 30 days of the issuance of the ticket, an additional $15 late
fee will be due. If the payment for the violation is not made within 60 days of
the issuance of the ticket, an additional $15 late fee will be due.
   (D)   Revocation of parking permit or card access.  In addition to being
responsible for the applicable parking ticket penalty any person having been
issued a parking permit or card access to a controlled access parking area in
accordance with this chapter who violates any of the provisions of Article C.
of this chapter may have his or her parking permit or card access rights to the
controlled access parking area deactivated or revoked and all off-street
parking privileges suspended for a period of one year from the date of the
offense.
   (E)   Appeals; payment of civil penalties. Unless appealed in accordance
with the appeal provisions of this chapter, all civil penalties assessed for
violations of any provision of this chapter must be paid to and received by the
revenue division of the City's Financial Services Department within five
business days from the date of issuance.
   (F)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalties.  Unless appealed in
accordance with the appeal provisions of this chapter, if full payment for an
assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the revenue division of the
city's Financial Services Department, the city may recover the unpaid civil
penalty by any or all of the following methods:
      (1)   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
      (2)   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
      (3)   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
      (4)   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (5)   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect, satisfy, or
otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
   (G)   Continuing violations. Each day's continuing violation of any
provision of this article shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-153 TOWING OF VEHICLES PARKED AS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Violations of on-street parking. In addition to any other penalties as
provided by this chapter and in accordance with Chapter 160A, Article 8 of the
North Carolina General Statutes, G.S. 160A-300, G.S. 160A-301, G.S. 160A-303
and the provisions of Part II, Title 12, Chapter 4 of this Code, a motor
vehicle as defined by G.S. 160A-303 that parks or is otherwise left upon any
on-street parking in violation of any law or provision of this chapter
prohibiting parking shall be deemed as abandoned and a police officer or a
parking enforcement officer is authorized and directed to tow and store the
motor vehicle by removing and disposing of the motor vehicle according to the
provisions of G.S. 160A-303 giving notice to the owner thereof as required by
G.S. 20-219.11(a). Prior to the release of the motor vehicle, all civil
penalties due or forming the basis of the tow and all towing fees shall be paid
by the owner or other person responsible for such vehicle.
   (B)   Violations of off-street parking. In addition to any other penalties
as provided by this chapter and in accordance with Chapter 160A, Article 8 of
the North Carolina General Statutes, G.S. 160A-301, and G.S. 160A-302, a
vehicle that parks or is otherwise left upon any off-street parking area in
violation of any law or provision of this chapter shall be subject to towing
and storage and a police officer or a parking enforcement officer is authorized
and directed to tow and store the vehicle by removing and disposing of the
vehicle according to the provisions of G.S. 160A-303 giving notice to the owner
thereof as required by G.S. 20-219.11(a). Prior to the release of the vehicle,
all civil penalties due or forming the basis of the tow and all towing fees
shall be paid by the owner or other person responsible for such vehicle.
   (C)   Vehicles left on city property longer than 24 hours. In addition to
any other penalties as provided by this chapter and in accordance with Chapter
160A, Article 8 of the North Carolina General Statutes, G.S. 160A-300, G.S.
160A-301, G.S. 160A-303 and the provisions of Part II, Title 12, Chapter 4 of
this Code, a motor vehicle as defined by G.S. 160A-303 that continues to remain
parked in violation of any provisions of this chapter longer than 24 hours
shall be deemed as abandoned and a police officer or a parking enforcement
officer is authorized and directed to tow and store the motor vehicle by
removing and disposing of the motor vehicle according to the provisions of G.S.
160A-303 giving notice to the owner thereof as required by G.S. 20-219.11(a).
Prior to the release of the motor vehicle, all civil penalties due or forming
the basis of the tow and all towing fees shall be paid by the owner or other
person responsible for such vehicle.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-154 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE UNTIL ALL FEES FULLY PAID.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the city any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this Code, unless and until all towing, storage,
and impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of such fees, have been
fully paid.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-155 TOWING AND IMPOUNDING VEHICLES WITH UNPAID PARKING TICKETS.
   (A)   Authorization. The Director of Financial Services may authorize a
vehicle to be immobilized by wheel lock or other immobilization device or towed
and impounded if the vehicle is illegally parked for which there are three or
more unpaid parking tickets issued by the city which are at least 90 days
overdue. For the purpose of determining whether an illegally parked vehicle has
been issued three or more unpaid parking tickets issued by the city which are
at least 90 days overdue, it shall be sufficient if the license plate number of
the illegally parked vehicle and the license plate number of the vehicle
appearing on the unpaid tickets are the same.
   (B)   Procedure to immobilize a vehicle; immobilization fee. An illegally
parked vehicle for which there are three or more unpaid parking tickets issued
by the city which are at least 90 days overdue may be immobilized by wheel lock
or wheel locking device and the owners thereof assessed a wheel immobilization
fee of $50. A wheel immobilization notice on a form approved by the Director of
Financial Services shall be affixed to the vehicle in a conspicuous place. The
wheel immobilization notice shall state the total amount owed for the unpaid
and overdue parking tickets; the immobilization fee of $50; and the address and
telephone number of the city office to be contacted to pay the unpaid and
overdue parking tickets and the immobilization fee and request removal of the
immobilization device. All charges including the unpaid and overdue parking
tickets and immobilization fee must be paid before the immobilization device
may be removed by the city. A receipt showing that all tickets and the
immobilization fee have been paid will be provided to the vehicle owner by the
Director of Financial Services who must also provide a copy to the Greenville
Police Department in order to obtain the required release authorization to
remove the immobilization device. The city shall not be responsible for any
damage to an immobilized illegally parked vehicle resulting from on
unauthorized attempts to free or move that vehicle.
   (C)   Procedure to tow and impound; forms to complete. An illegally parked
vehicle for which there are three or more unpaid parking tickets issued by the
city which are at least 90 days overdue may be towed and impounded utilizing
the city rotation wrecker list as regulated in this Code. A vehicle tow sheet
form is to be completed for each towed vehicle stating the name of the tower
and where the vehicle is stored, the total amount owed for all unpaid and
overdue parking tickets, the towing fee. The accompanying vehicle towing and
storage report form shall also indicate "Impounded" on the report listing the
address and telephone number of the city office to be contacted to pay the
unpaid and overdue parking tickets. All charges including the unpaid and
overdue parking tickets and the towing fee shall be paid before the vehicle can
be released. A receipt showing that all tickets and the towing fee have been
paid will be provided to the vehicle owner by the Director of Financial
Services who must also provide a copy to the Greenville Police Department in
order to obtain the required vehicle release authorization form for release of
the impounded vehicle.
   (D)   Mailing of notice of towing and impoundment to owner.  Once a vehicle
has been towed and impounded, the Chief of Police shall mail or cause to be
mailed a notice of towing and impoundment to the address of the last known
registered owner of the vehicle and to the lienholder.
   (E)   Release of impounded vehicle. Upon payment of all unpaid and overdue
parking tickets and all other applicable charges authorized by this section,
including all towing fees, the vehicle shall be released from impound to the
owner or any other person entitled to claim possession of the vehicle.
   (F)   Disposal of impounded vehicles. If a vehicle has been towed, and
remains impounded in excess of 30 days, it may be disposed of in accordance
with the provisions of the City Code relating to the disposition of junked or
abandoned vehicles set forth in Part II, Title 12, Chapter 4 of this Code.
   (G)   Appeals and appeal hearing. The registered owner or person entitled to
possession of any vehicle which has been immobilized or towed and impounded
pursuant to this section may submit a written request for a hearing to the
Chief of Police by mail within seven days from the receipt of the respective
wheel immobilization notice or vehicle towing and storage report form. If a
request for a hearing is not made within the allotted time, the right to a
hearing shall have been waived. If a hearing is requested, the hearing shall be
provided within seven days of receipt by the Chief of Police of the request for
the hearing. Thereafter, an informal hearing will be conducted by the Chief of
Police at a time and place designated by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 10-2-156 APPEALS; APPEAL BOARD.
   (A)   Appeal Board. An Appeal Board of three city employees selected by the
City Manager shall be authorized to hear and decide appeals in accordance with
this section. There shall be an alternate member from the Financial Services
Department to serve on the Appeal Board in the event of a conflict of interest.
   (B)   Appeal to Appeal Board. The issuance of any civil penalty for a
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or the denial, revocation,
or deactivation of a parking permit or card access to a controlled access
parking area may be appealed by the filing an appeal in accordance with this
section.
      (1)   Notice of appeal; contents and filing; waiver of appeal. A person
who elects to appeal a civil penalty or the denial, revocation, or deactivation
of a parking permit or card access to a controlled access parking area shall
file a notice of appeal in writing within five days of the issuance of the
penalty or decision that is the basis of the appeal. The notice of appeal shall
include written objections and shall be directed to the City Manager's office.
Any appeal received by the City Manager's office more than five days after the
date of the issued civil penalty or date of decision that is the basis of the
appeal shall be deemed waived as untimely, shall not be considered by the
Appeal Board, and the imposition of the civil penalty or the decision at issue
shall stand, shall be fully enforceable, and may not be thereafter appealed.
      (2)   Scheduling of the hearing. The City Manager's office, as designee
of the Appeal Board, shall schedule a hearing within 10 days of the filing of
the notice of appeal. The hearing on the appeal shall take place within a
reasonable time, but no longer than 30 days from the filing of the notice of
appeal. The City Manager's office shall provide notice of the hearing via
either or both first class mail or electronic mail to the appellant and shall
also provide notice to city employee who issued the civil penalty or who made
the decision at issue. If the appellant does not appear at the hearing, the
imposition of the civil penalty or the decision at issue shall stand, shall be
fully enforceable, and may not be thereafter appealed.
      (3)   Conduct of the hearing.  The hearing on the appeal shall be an
informal administrative hearing. The City Manager shall be the chairperson and
conduct the hearing and govern procedural questions. The North Carolina rules
of evidence shall not apply. However, both the appellant and the city shall be
entitled to be represented by counsel, have the right to make opening and
closing statements, present evidence, and call, confront, and cross-examine
witnesses. All witnesses shall testify under oath. Each Appeal Board member
shall have the right to question witnesses. The appellant and/or the city shall
be allowed to record the hearing. The hearing shall be conducted in accordance
with the principles of due process.
   (C)   Final decision of Appeal Board. The Appeal Board shall make the final
decision. The decision of the Appeal Board shall be by majority vote, and said
decision shall be made at the conclusion of the hearing unless the Appeal Board
requests additional evidence. The decision of the Appeal Board shall be
documented by the City Manager in writing, including findings to support the
Appeal Board's decision, and notice of appeal rights, and forwarded to the
applicant within ten days of the conclusion of the hearing via either or both
first class mail or electronic mail.
   (D)   Appeal to superior court. Any appeal from the final decision of the
Appeal Board shall be taken to the Pitt County superior court by filing notice
of appeal and a petition for review within 10 days of the final decision of the
Appeal Board. Appeals from rulings of the Appeal Board shall be heard de novo
before a superior court judge sitting in the Pitt County superior court
division.
   (E)   Stay of penalty or decision during appeal. The imposition of a civil
penalty or the decision forming the basis of the appeal shall be stayed during
the pendency of the appeal.
(Ord. No. 23-045, § 4, passed 6-8-2023)
CHAPTER 3: MOTOR VEHICLE TAX
Section
   
10-3-1   Imposition
   
10-3-2   Administration and enforcement
Cross-reference:
   Revenue and taxation, see
Title 3, Chapter 2
SEC. 10-3-1 IMPOSITION.
   Each motor vehicle licensed by the state which is resident within the city
on the date ad valorem property taxes are assessed on the vehicle shall be
subject to an annual motor vehicle tax of $20. For purposes of determining
whether the motor vehicle is “resident” within the city, the provisions of the
Machinery Act (G.S. 105-271 et seq.) shall be applicable and any such motor
vehicle which under the Machinery Act would be taxable for ad valorem property
taxes shall be subject to the tax imposed by this chapter.
(Ord. No. 1289, § 2, passed 7-14-1983; Ord. No. 98-85, § 6, passed 6-15-1998)
SEC. 10-3-2 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   Administration of this tax shall be handled in accordance with the
procedures established for listing, discovery, collection, levy, attachment,
garnishment, release and rebate as for property taxes under the Machinery Act
(G.S. 105-271 et seq.).
(Ord. No. 1289, § 2, passed 7-14-1983)
TITLE 11
LICENSING AND REGULATORY
   
Chapter 1.   Vehicles for Hire
   
Chapter 2.   Regulation of Parades
   
Chapter 3.   Junk Dealers
   
Chapter 4.   Peddlers, Solicitors and Canvassers
   
Chapter 5.   Auctions of Gold, Jewels and the like
   
Chapter 6.   Poolrooms and Bowling Alleys
   
Chapter 7.   Police-initiated Tow Service Operations
   
Chapter 8.   Horse-drawn Vehicles
   
Chapter 9.   Litter Control in Parking Lots
   
Chapter 10.   Sexually Oriented Businesses
   
Chapter 11.   Transient Merchants, Itinerant Merchants and Itinerant Vendors
   
Chapter 12.   Bar Safety Regulations
   
Chapter 13.   Miscellaneous
Editor’s note:
   Ord. No. 96-109, § 1, adopted Nov. 14, 1996, repealed Ord. No. 1617,
previously codified herein as §§ 11-8-1—11-8-4. Such repealed sections
pertained to restrictions on Sunday sales as derived from Ord. No. 1617, §§ 1,
2, adopted June 9, 1986.
   Annotation: The City Council acted within its authority in promulgating its
Sunday closing ordinances, and, as such, the act is free from judicial
interference, Clark’s Greenville, Inc. v. West, 151 S.E. 2d 5(1966).
   Ord. No. 07-124, § 1, adopted Sept. 13, 2007 repealed Ord. No. 2740,
previously codified herein as 11-12-1 through 11-12-7. The repealed sections
pertained to regulation of customer service standards and rates charged for
cable television service. A new Chapter 12, sections 11-12-1 through 11-12-7,
pertaining to safety regulations for public and private clubs, was subsequently
created by Ord. No. 09-98, § 1, adopted December 10, 2009.
Statutory reference:
   Limitations on enactment of Sunday closing ordinances, see G.S. 160A-191
   State Franchise for Cable Television Service, see Article 42 of G.S. Chapter
66
CHAPTER 1: VEHICLES FOR HIRE
Section
Article A. General Provisions
   
11-1-1   Definitions
   
11-1-2   Insurance
   
11-1-3   Failure to pay fare
   
11-1-4   Application of provisions to for-hire vehicles
   
11-1-5   Designation of a taxicab inspector
   
11-1-6   Taxi stands
   
11-1-7   Passengers with disabilities
   
11-1-8   Taxicab signs
Article B. Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity
   
11-1-12   Required
   
11-1-13   Certificate of public convenience and necessity; renewal
   
11-1-14   Application
   
11-1-15   Issuance standards and procedures
   
11-1-16   Burden of proof to be upon the applicant
   
11-1-17   Appeals of denials of certificates of public convenience and
necessity
   
11-1-18   Expiration or cessation of operation; death of franchisee
   
11-1-19   Transfer
   
11-1-20   Substitution of vehicles
   
11-1-21   Revocation
   
11-1-22   Records; collection of fees
Article C. Inspections
   
11-1-51   Inspection of vehicles as prerequisite; subsequent inspections
   
11-1-52   Inspection items
   
11-1-53   Removal from service
   
11-1-54   Signs
Article D. Taxicabs
Division 1. General Provisions
   
11-1-61   Annual license for operation of taxicab business
   
11-1-62   Duty to transport persons and property; exceptions
   
11-1-63   Operating condition of vehicles
   
11-1-64   Conduct of drivers
   
11-1-65   Accident reports
   
11-1-66   Manifest
   
11-1-67   Taxicabs used for private purposes
Division 2. Driver’s Permits
   
11-1-81   Driver’s permit required
   
11-1-82   Permit application; fingerprints and photograph as part thereof
   
11-1-83   Chief of Police to investigate
   
11-1-84   Refusal and revocation
   
11-1-85   Fee; term; renewal
   
11-1-86   Posting in taxicab
   
11-1-87   Assignment or transfer
   
11-1-88   Revocation upon change of ownership; issuance to new owner
   
11-1-89   Appeal to Appeal Board
   
11-1-90   Suspension and revocation; causes and hearings
Division 3. Vehicle Requirements
   
11-1-100   Taxicab numbers
   
11-1-101   Illuminated signs on taxicabs
   
11-1-102   Solicitation of passengers by driver
   
11-1-103   Lost articles
   
11-1-104   Unauthorized passengers
   
11-1-105   Compliance of passenger’s request required
Division 4. Fares
   
11-1-119   Authority of City Council to establish
   
11-1-120   Schedule of fares; education
   
11-1-121   Prior notice and payment of fare
Article E. Limousines
   
11-1-128   License required; fee
   
11-1-129   Certificate of public convenience and necessity required
   
11-1-130   Driver’s permit required
   
11-1-131   Application of conditions
Article F. Contract Vehicles, Transport Services and Other Vehicles for Hire
   
11-1-132   Compliance with state laws and city ordinances
   
11-1-133   License required; fee
Article G. Penalties and Enforcement Actions
   
11-1-140   Penalties and enforcement actions
Article H. Low-Speed Vehicle Taxicabs
   
11-1-145   Rules and Regulations of Low-Speed Vehicle Taxicabs
Editor’s note:
   Ord. No. 97-44, adopted Apr. 21, 1997, has been codified herein as Ch. 1, §§
11-1-1, 11-1-2, 11-1-11—11-1-16, 11-1-31—11-1-45, 11-1-61—11-1-83 and 11-1-
90—11-1-93, superseding Ch. 1, §§ 11-1-1, 11-1-2, 11-1-11—11-1-16, 11-1-31—
Statutory reference:
   Licensing and regulation of vehicles for hire, see G.S. 160A-304
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 11-1-1 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
Call or demand. transportation arrangements made indiscriminately and
instantaneously with a request for service which shall include, but not limited
to, the hailing of a taxicab or pedicab made from a public street location,
airport terminal roadway, or public vehicular area as the pickup. No vehicle
for hire other than a taxicab or pedicab shall engage in cruising or be
operated on “call or demand”.
Certificate. A certificate of public convenience and necessity which has been
issued to a holder in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, unless
otherwise defined herein.
Chief of Police. Chief of police or designee.
Contract vehicle. Any passenger vehicle for hire that provides contract
transportation to passengers for compensation by written prearrangement with a
business, facility, institution or group. The “contract vehicle” for hire does
not accept other passengers indiscriminately between points along streets,
roads and highways and does not accept compensation from any passenger. No
“contract vehicle” shall engage in cruising or be operated on call or demand.
Cruising. The operation of a vehicle on the streets of the city in search of or
soliciting prospective passengers for hire. No passenger vehicle for hire,
other than a taxicab or pedi-cab, shall engage in cruising or be operated on
call or demand.
Driver’s permit. The license issued to any person to enable that person to
operate a taxicab vehicle upon the streets of the City of Greenville.
Exclusive-ride service. The operation of a taxicab by transporting one
passenger, or a group of passengers, from one trip origin to one destination
and not allowing additional passengers to board until the prescribed
destination is reached.
For-hire vehicle. Any motor vehicle or non-motorized vehicle including, but not
limited to, full sized station wagon, transport vehicle, handicap accessible
transport vehicle or van style vehicle, used for the purpose of transporting
passengers for a set charge or fee, based upon the origin or destination
requested. For-hire vehicle services shall be prearranged and not on demand.
For purposes of this chapter, “for-hire vehicles” also shall include such
vehicles that accept donations and do not have a set rate charge. For the
purpose of this chapter, the term “for-hire vehicle” shall not include “medical
transport” or “private ambulance” as herein defined. For the purposes of this
chapter, all “for-hire vehicles” shall be required to possess a privilege
license.
Holder. An individual(s), trustee, fiduciary, corporation, partnership, or
other entity to whom a certificate of public convenience and necessity has been
issued in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise
defined herein.
Limousine. Any motor vehicle that meets the manufacturer’s specifications for a
luxury limousine and that provides limousine service as defined in this
section. Every “limousine” shall have a minimum of four seats or one continuous
sofa-styled seating area located behind the operator of the vehicle. No
“limousine” shall engage in cruising or be operated on call or demand.
Limousine company. Any passenger vehicle for hire company issued a company
operating certificate that engages in the business of operating limousines or
providing limousine service as an owner or franchisor.
Limousine sedan. Those vehicles that provide executive transportation services
and are necessarily limited to full-sized luxury sedans.
Limousine service. The service regularly rendered to the public, not over fixed
routes, which furnishes transportation by limousines for hire, based on a fee
determined by increments of time and contracted for by telephone or other
prearrangement with a limousine company.
   Low-speed vehicle taxicab. A four-wheeled electric vehicle whose top speed
is greater than 20 miles per hour but not greater than 25 miles per hour that
transports persons for compensation. Unless a specific ordinance applies
herein, a lowspeed vehicle shall follow all provisions of this chapter related
to taxicabs.
   Low-speed vehicle taxicab company. A person who applies for and is issued a
public certificate of convenience and necessity issued in accordance with this
chapter that engages in the business of operating a low-speed vehicle taxicab
service as an owner or franchisor.
Manifest. A daily record, prepared by the owner, of all trips made by the
taxicab(s) which the owner operates, showing time and place of origin and
destination of each trip and the amount of fare.
Medical transport or private ambulance. Those vehicles designed to carry
medical patients requiring special medical equipment including but not limited
to oxygen, intravenous systems or ventilators, stretcher or bed bound patients,
using trained emergency medical technicians or paramedics to transport and care
for those in their care and licensed by the North Carolina Department of Health
and Human Services pursuant to G.S. Ch. 131E, Art. 7.
Owner/holder. Any person, firm or corporation to whom a certificate of public
convenience and necessity has been issued under this chapter.
Pedi-cab. Any business or individual who operates a small-scale local means of
transport that is human powered but also may be powered in whole or part by an
electric or small gasoline motor.
Privilege license. The business license required and issued to all businesses
that operate within the City of Greenville.
Shared-ride service. The operation of a taxicab by transporting passengers from
one or several different origins to one or several different destinations, not
necessarily using the most direct route, but using a route that will allow the
driver to deviate in order to pick up or discharge passengers other than, and
in addition to, the first or original passenger.
Shuttle van. Any passenger vehicle for hire that provides shuttle
transportation to passengers to or from prescribed locations such as hotels,
motels, shopping centers, schools to after school daycare, business or
commercial buildings, stadiums, convention center or theaters by prearrangement
for a fee, pursuant to a contract or agreement, and that does not accept or
discharge passengers indiscriminately between prescribed locations. No “shuttle
van” shall engage in cruising or be operated on call or demand. Shuttle service
charges may not be collected from the passenger.
Taxicab. Includes any motor driven vehicle, seating nine or fewer passengers,
for which public patronage is solicited and which calculates the fare by means
of the schedule of fares as approved by the City Council. For the purposes of
this chapter, the term “taxicab” shall not include “limousine” or “for-hire
vehicle” but shall include pedi-cab and low-speed vehicle taxicab as herein
separately defined.
Taxicab inspector. The person designated by the Chief of Police or designee who
is charged with the duties required under this chapter, including the
inspection and licensing of taxicabs and the drivers thereof.
Taxi stand. Such places and locations as designated by the City Manager,
Director of Engineering and Chief of Police or their designees as locations
where only taxicabs or pedi-cabs may stand or park awaiting passengers on
demand for pickup or discharge.
Taxi Fare Service Zones. The map used to reflect the zones in which the
corporate limits of the City of Greenville is divided and shall designate the
applicable rate for each zone and as set out in the Manual of Fees for the City
of Greenville.
Taxi service or limousine service. The holder of one of the certificates of
public convenience and necessity issued under this chapter.
Tobacco, tobacco products. Cigarettes, pipes, cigars, smokeless tobacco, snuff,
and chewing tobacco.
Transport services. Contract vehicles for hire, vehicles for hire that carry 15
passengers or less, or for-hire vehicles that carry persons with disabilities
exclusively. “Transport services” do not accept passengers indiscriminately
between points along streets, roads and highways and do not accept compensation
directly from any passenger. Unless under written contract or agreement with a
restaurant, club or other business, no “transport service” may wait outside a
business to pick up passengers on a for-hire basis or donation basis. No
contract vehicle shall engage in cruising or be operated on call or demand.
Wait or waiting time. The period of time consumed when a taxicab is not in
motion at the direction of a passenger from the time of acceptance of a
passenger to the time of discharge and also the time consumed while a driver is
waiting for a passenger after having responded to a call; however, “wait” or
“waiting time” shall not include and may not be charged for:
      (1)   The time consumed by a premature response;
      (2)   The first three minutes following the timely arrival in response to
a call;
      (3)   The delay caused by traffic interruption, traffic lights,
accidents, railroad train crossing;
      (4)   The inefficiency of the driver; and/or
      (5)   Any other cause other than at the request, act, or fault of the
passenger.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011; Ord. No. 21-060, § 1, passed 10-14-
2021)
SEC. 11-1-2 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Liability insurance policy prerequisite to operation. The owners or
operators of any and all taxicabs, limousines, contract vehicles, transport
services or other vehicles for hire and used for the transportation of
passengers for remuneration, and operating within the corporate limits of the
city or within five miles in each direction from the corporate limits, shall,
before engaging in such business, procure liability insurance in a minimum
amount of $100,000 for one person and $300,000 for more than one person for the
protection cf all passengers transported against personal injuries and $50,000
property damage, against liability for damages to the person and property of
others. No person shall operate or cause to be operated any passenger vehicle
for hire over the streets of the city or between the city and points not
incorporated within a radius of five miles of the city, without first
furnishing proof of financial responsibility. It shall be unlawful for any
person to violate any provision of this section.
   (B)   Proof of financial responsibility. The operator and driver of every
taxicab, limousine, contract vehicle, transport service and vehicle for hire
shall furnish and keep in effect for each vehicle operated under this chapter
proof of financial responsibility. The insurance policy shall contain a clause
obligating the insurance company to give 15 days’ written notice to the Chief
of Police prior to the cancellation of such insurance. The certificate of
convenience and necessity for any taxicab, limousine, and the privilege license
for any contract vehicle, transport service and vehicle for hire shall be
automatically revoked upon the lapse, cancellation or termination of the
insurance on that vehicle unless the same has been renewed or replaced and a
new certificate filed with the Chief of Police. The operator shall also furnish
proof of payment of the City of Greenville’s privilege license.
   (C)   Filing of policies of insurance. The certificate or privilege license
holder shall file with the Chief of Police a copy of the insurance policy
insuring the liability of the vehicle, as a condition precedent to the
operation of any taxicab, limousine, contract vehicle, transport service or
vehicle for hire on the city streets. The policy filed shall, among other
things, set forth a description of every vehicle operating under the terms of
such policy.
   (D)   Contents of policy. Such liability policy shall contain a further
provision that the insolvency or bankruptcy of the person insured shall not
release the insurance company from payment of damages for injuries sustained,
or death by wrongful act, or loss incurred, and in case of recovery against the
insured on account of any such injury, death or loss that the insurance company
will pay on account of the judgment recovered in any such action an amount
equal to, but not exceeding, the amount of the policy or of the judgment, and
that the policy may be sued upon at any time.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-3 FAILURE TO PAY FARE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to retain the services of the operator
or driver of a taxicab, licensed under this chapter or any other provision of
the Greenville Code regulating taxicabs or limousines to transport passengers
for hire, for the purpose of transporting such person from one place to any
other place, and to fail to pay such operator or driver the regular
transportation fare upon reaching his destination, provided that there was no
agreement that the fare should be paid at some later date.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-4 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS TO FOR-HIRE VEHICLES.
   Unless otherwise provided, all provisions of this chapter shall apply to
for-hire vehicles and the owners and operators thereof.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-5 DESIGNATION OF A TAXICAB INSPECTOR.
   The Chief of Police shall designate one or more taxicab inspectors from
within the Police Department who shall be responsible for the inspection of
taxicabs, limousines, contract carriers and all other for-hire vehicles and the
administration of this chapter. The taxicab inspector may be a civilian or
sworn law enforcement employee of the Police Department. Enforcement of this
chapter shall be the responsibility of the taxicab inspectors and any city
police officer. A taxicab inspector or sworn law enforcement officer is hereby
given authority to issue a civil penalty for violations of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-6 TAXI STANDS.
   (A)   The City Manager, Director of Engineering and Chief of Police or their
designees may elect to establish taxi stands. If such taxi stands are
established, they shall be established jointly by these individuals or their
designees.
   (B)   Taxis including pedi-cabs shall enter the designated taxi stands from
the rear only, and each taxi must be headed in the direction of the exit. No
taxi shall stop at a taxi stand unless there is a vacancy therein. Taxis shall
exit taxi stands in the order in which they enter. Drivers shall remain in
their taxis or within the taxi stand so that normal operations of the taxi
stand are maintained. Taxi drivers may leave the taxi stand only in an
emergency or to assist passengers.
   (C)   No vehicle for hire may use a taxi stand except taxicabs and pedi-
cabs.
   (D)   If taxi stands are established, a list shall be maintained by the taxi
inspector, placed on the city website or at such other places as determined by
the Chief of Police or designee. Such lists shall be open for inspection.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011 ; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-
2023)
SEC. 11-1-7 PASSENGERS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   All taxis, limousines, transports and other vehicles for hire shall be
required to comply with the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990 and the
Americans With Disabilities Amendment Act of 2008 and any subsequent changes
and amendments including implementing regulations. For purpose of compliance
with this section, vehicle for hire includes but is not limited to taxis,
limousines, transports, contract vehicles and other vehicles for hire that
provide transportation services to persons with a disability. No vehicle for
hire operator may deny service to a customer with a disability solely because
of the disability. If a person with a disability uses a powered or rigid frame
wheelchair or mobility device, accessible vehicles with a power lift are
required. If the vehicle for hire is not equipped with a power lift, the
vehicle for hire operator will assist the passenger with obtaining a vehicle
for hire that has such capability. Collapsible mobility dsvices may be placed
in the trunk of the vehicle for hire.
   (B)   Vehicle for hire operators may not charge persons with disabilities
extra fees, higher rates or costs for necessary assistance. If the vehicle for
hire has a charge for placing a piece of luggage in the trunk of the vehicle
for hire, the passenger with a disability who uses a wheelchair or other
mobility device shall not be charged a fee for storage of the wheelchair or
mobility device in the trunk of the vehicle for hire, greater than the fee
charged for a piece of luggage.
   (C)   The vehicle for hire operator will inquire of the passenger with a
disability what assistance the passenger may need or specific instructions that
may be requested. The vehicle for hire operator is not required to actually
lift the passenger from the wheelchair or mobility device and place the
passenger within the vehicle.
   (D)   Vehicle for hire operators must permit passengers with a disability
who use service animals to ride in the customer compartment of the vehicle for
hire. The passenger must stay with the service animal at all times and is
responsible for the animal’s conduct. If the service animal becomes unruly,
begins to bark or snap, the vehicle operator may request the passenger with the
disability to exit the vehicle with the service animal.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-8 TAXICAB SIGNS.
   All taxicabs operating under this chapter shall have on the side of the door
of each taxicab in letters the name of the taxicab company and telephone number
of the taxicab dispatcher for the company and any other information as directed
by this chapter. The letters shall be of uniform size, color and shape not less
than three and one-half inches in height. No metallic or other sign may be
affixed to the door of the taxicab in lieu of the required information in this
paragraph.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
ARTICLE B. CERTIFICATE OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY
SEC. 11-1-12 REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a taxicab or limousine upon
and over the streets of the city without having first applied for and secured
from the Chief of Police a certificate of public convenience and necessity in
accordance with the provisions of this article or to be a designated driver
under the holder of a certificate as provided elsewhere in this chapter.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-13 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY; RENEWAL.
   (A)   A certificate of public convenience and necessity shall constitute an
authorization from the city for the operation of taxicabs or limousines within
the city limits subject to the provisions of this article for three years,
unless a shorter period of time is specified in the certificate. Applications
for renewals shall be filed either by the tenth day of January unless such day
falls on a weekend day and if so, then on the next business day that the City
of Greenville is open for business, for those certificates expiring during the
period from February 1 through July 31 or by the tenth day of July unless such
day falls on a weekend day and if so, then on the next business day that the
City of Greenville is open for business, for those certificates expiring during
the period from August 1 through January 31.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall review in January and then again in July the
conduct of the holder with regard to his or her compliance with the provisions
of section
11-1-21. Thereafter, if the Chief of Police believes there are grounds for the
revocation of the certificate, he or she shall forward his or her
recommendations in writing, with supporting documentation and findings, to the
City Council for consideration and decision in accordance with this chapter.
   (C) The City Council has not established a maximum number of franchises or
maximum number of taxicabs that may operate under each franchise. Each
applicant for franchise has the burden of establishing the need for an
additional franchise and the proposed number of taxicabs plans to operate, the
financial ability to operate and comply with the requirements of this
ordinance; and the specific skills or talents offers to enhance the
professional image of a taxicab owner and operator. The City Council reserves
the right to establish a maximum number of franchises and a maximum number of
taxicabs that may operate under each franchise including the establishment of
procedures to implement the maximum authorized number, to grandfather existing
businesses and select new franchise applicants to fill vacancies.
   (D)   A franchise issued under this article is not transferable. However,
the assignment of a taxi certificate under a “family business” request to
assign a certificate from one family member to another immediate family member
may be considered. Application for a permit to transfer shall be filed in the
same manner as an application for a franchise. The proceedings upon the
application for a transfer shall be the same as those described for the
issuance of a franchise.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-14 APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a taxicab or limousine certificate, including any
amendments thereto and including applications for transfer of certificates,
shall be filed with the taxicab inspector upon forms provided by the taxicab
inspector and a filing fee as established in the Manual of Fees. Such
application and amendments shall be verified under oath and shall furnish the
following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant, and if an applicant is:
         (a)   A corporation, a certified copy of the articles of
incorporation;
         (b)   An association, a certified copy of the bylaws of the
association; or
         (c)   A partnership, a certified copy of the partnership agreement.
      (2)   The number of vehicles to be owned, operated and controlled by the
applicant, including the make, type, year of manufacture, serial number and
passenger capacity of each taxicab or limousine, provided however, the number
of vehicles to be owned, operated and controlled shall not be less than three.
The applicant also shall provide the name and completed application for each
person designated to drive under the applicant’s certificate of public
convenience and necessity. This vehicle number requirement shall not apply to
existing certificate holders on the effective date of the ordinance from which
this section derives.
      (3)   The proposed hours of operation.
      (4)   The applicant’s complete record of criminal arrests and
convictions, including those for traffic violations, during the past five
years. If an applicant is a corporation, association or partnership, the
criminal record of the officers, directors, partners and supervising employees
thereof, including general manager, if any.
      (5)   The experience of the applicant in the transportation of passengers
for hire.
      (6)   The location of a depot or terminal on private property that is in
compliance with city zoning ordinance and which has sufficient private off-
street parking to accommodate those vehicles to be owned, operated and
controlled by the applicant during times of nonuse.
      (7)   The ability to provide dispatch taxi service with centralized
dispatching through the use of a radio; the ability to provide 24-hour dispatch
taxi service with centralized dispatching when the requested number of taxicabs
is to exceed ten.
      (8)   The ability to provide adequate supervision of taxicabs or
limousines and drivers operating under the certificate.
      (9)   An assurance that the telephone number of the taxicab or limousine
company will be listed in the next city telephone directory issued.
      (10)   An assurance that the applicant will meet the insurance
requirements of this chapter.
      (11)   An assurance that each vehicle operating under the certificate
shall be kept clean and in good mechanical condition and in good physical
condition at all times.
      (12)   A criminal background records check of the applicant(s) and all
proposed drivers. The applicant(s) and drivers shall report to the taxicab
inspector for fingerprinting.
   (B)   Failure to furnish required or requested information shall be grounds
for denial, revocation or suspension of certificates.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-15 ISSUANCE STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   In determining whether public convenience and necessity require the
operation of a taxicab or taxicabs or limousines and in issuing certificates
for which applications are made, the Chief of Police shall consider in addition
to the information set forth in the applications:
      (1)   The financial responsibility, experience and quality of service
being rendered, if any, by each applicant.
      (2)   The ability to provide continuity of service regarding certificates
surrendered by associates of applicant.
      (3)   The number, kind and type of equipment.
      (4)   The ability of each applicant to provide an efficient level of
service.
      (5)   Any other considerations that will tend to improve taxicab service
in the city.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall not issue a certificate of public
convenience and necessity to any applicant unless the Chief of Police is
satisfied that the applicant is qualified pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, and shall conform to and comply with the provisions, terms and
conditions of this article, and the applicant has been determined to meet the
following requirements:
      (1)   The applicant is at least 18 years of age or is otherwise legally
emancipated;
      (2)   The applicant is not a habitual user of drugs or intoxicating
liquors;
      (3)   There are no unpaid judgments of record against the applicant; or,
if unpaid judgments of record exist, the applicant has established and
maintained regular periodic payments in discharge of the liability, which
payments are designed to discharge the liability within a reasonable period of
time considering the amount of the liability;
      (4)   The applicant is not in default in the payment of any indebtedness
secured by lien, mortgage or any other encumbrance on the vehicle intended to
be operated pursuant to the certificate; or, if the vehicle intended to be
operated pursuant to the certificate has not yet been purchased, the applicant
has demonstrated the financial ability through projected revenues, or
otherwise, to make the regularly scheduled payments of any indebtedness arising
from any expected liens, mortgages or any other encumbrances, on the said
vehicle;
      (5)   The applicant has demonstrated the ability to purchase insurance
within 60 days as required by this chapter;
      (6)   The applicant has demonstrated the ability to place in service
within 60 days of the issuance of the certificate a vehicle adequate to provide
and maintain the quality of service required by this chapter and meeting all of
the requirements of this chapter for a taxicab or limousine;
      (7)   The applicant has demonstrated the ability to establish within 60
days of the issuance of the certificate, a depot, terminal, or other base of
operation for receiving of requests for service and the dispatching of vehicles
in response to requests for service adequate to provide and maintain the
quality of service required by this chapter, and has demonstrated the ability
to obtain within 60 days of the issuance of the certificate the necessary
recording and office equipment and other necessary equipment and things
adequate to provide and maintain the quality of service required by this
chapter and sufficient to comply with all of the provisions of this chapter
including all the record keeping and reporting provisions;
      (8)   The applicant has registered properly with the state the correct
and true owner’s name of any vehicle intended to be operated pursuant to the
certificate;
      9)   There has not been a revocation of any certificate of public
convenience and necessity previously issued to the applicant within the 12
months preceding application;
      (10)   Issuance of the certificate to the applicant will not result in
the applicant holding such number of certificates or such percentage of all
issued certificates that a pernicious effect on competition will result or that
the quality of service to the public sought and required by the provisions of
this chapter will be impaired;
      (11)   The applicant is a legal resident of the United States;
      (12)   The applicant is not addicted to or does not habitually use any
alcoholic beverage as defined by G.S. Ch. 18 or use of any controlled
substances as defined by G.S. Ch. 90 not therapeutically prescribed;
      (13)   The applicant has not been involved in repeated and persistent
acts impugning his or her truthfulness or veracity, including, but not limited
to, fraud or deception; and
      (14)   The applicant has not entered a plea of guilty or no contest to
nor has been convicted of:
         (a)   A felony against the state or conviction of any offense against
another state, which would have been a felony if committed in this state. This
section shall not apply to felony convictions (as defined herein) which
occurred ten years from the date of the application;
         (b)   Violation of any federal or state law relating to the use,
possession or sale of any alcoholic beverage as defined by G.S. Ch. 18 or any
controlled substance as defined by G.S. Ch. 90;
         (c)   Any federal or state law relating to prostitution or gambling;
         (d)   Three convictions including any action which results in a prayer
for judgment or continuation of the judgment within a one-year period of time,
of any city, county or state traffic or safety ordinance or law. For purposes
of this subsection, a conviction is a violation. Violations resulting in not
guilty verdicts are not counted for purposes of this section;
         (e)   A single city, county, or state traffic or safety ordinance or
law that grossly endangers the lives of the driver, his passenger(s), or the
community;
         (f)   Any crime involving the use of a weapon of any type;
         (g)   Any charge alleging assault, domestic violence; or
         (h)   Any crime which may reasonably be interpreted as involving moral
turpitude or is so offensive to the public morals or of a sexual perversion as
to justify the conclusion that the applicant is not of good moral character,
including but not limited to those offenses listed in G.S. Ch. 14, Art. 26 and
27, relating to offenses against public morality and decency and crimes related
to prostitution within ten years preceding the application.
   (C)   If the applicant, whether initial or for renewal, shall refuse to
submit to a controlled substance test or if the applicant’s controlled
substance test result reveals a positive level for any of the controlled
substances listed in sections 90-89 through 90-94 of the North Carolina
Controlled Substances Act, the application for permit or renewal shall be
denied. If the applicant, whether for initial permit or for renewal, is denied
a permit as a result of a positive controlled substance test, the driver may
not operate a vehicle for hire until a permit is issued and must wait six
months from the date of the denial before re-applying for a permit. Any re-
application shall be treated for fee purposes as an initial application.
   (D)   The applicant shall provide to the Chief of Police or designee any and
all facts, evidence, information or documents within the possession or control
of the applicant or available to the applicant that shall be reasonably related
to the determination of the qualifications of the applicant and as the Chief of
Police shall request. Further, the submission of the application shall
constitute a waiver of all applicant’s privileges and rights of privacy with
respect to any document in existence reasonably related to the determination of
the applicant’s qualifications and shall serve as an authorization to the Chief
of Police or designee to make inquiry of any person or entity, and to receive
any oral or written reports from any person or entity, regarding any facts,
evidence or information reasonably related to the determination of the
applicant’s qualifications. The applicant shall sign any separate written
authorization that any person or entity shall require prior to the release of
any documents or information concerning the applicant.
   (E)   The issuance of certificates of convenience and necessity shall be
done semiannually. All of those persons interested in obtaining a certificate
of public convenience and necessity shall submit an application during the
first ten days in January and the first ten days in July. The Chief of Police
or designee shall review the applications to determine whether or not the
applicants meet the requirements of this chapter by February 15 and August 15.
If the Chief of Police determines an applicant meets the requirements of this
chapter, the applicant will be placed on a list in chronological order.
   (F)   If the Chief of Police finds that one applicant is more qualified than
the other applicants after considering the requirements of this chapter, then
the applicant who is more qualified shall be awarded the certificate of public
convenience and necessity. However, if after reviewing the applications, the
Chief of Police or designee feels that some of the applicants are equally
qualified, a list of the equally qualified applicants shall be maintained in
prioritized order based upon die date and time of application, and each
certificate will be awarded according to the sequence of a certificate of
public convenience and necessity available semiannually. Any certificate of
public convenience and necessity available shall be awarded according to the
priority of the applicant on the list, when the Chief of Police finds the
applicants to be equally qualified.
   (G)   If any person shall refuse the offer of a certificate of public
convenience and necessity or fails, refuses, or neglects to furnish such
service within 60 days after the certificate is offered him or her, the Chief
of Police shall withdraw the certificate of public convenience and necessity.
   (H)   No taxicab or limousine may be operated by any person, owner, or
holder of a certificate until all inspections, proof of insurance and other
requirements of this chapter are completed. If any person, owner or holder of
such certificate fails to comply with the requirements of this chapter within
60 days of award of the certificate of public convenience and necessity, then
certificate shall be revoked immediately.
   (I)   A certificate of public convenience and necessity, when granted, shall
be issued in the name of the city by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-16 BURDEN OF PROOF TO BE UPON THE APPLICANT.
   The burden of proof shall be upon the applicant to establish the existence
of public convenience and necessity for the operation of a taxicab or limousine
business as specified in this application, and all other facts required for the
granting of such certificate.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-17 APPEALS OF DENIALS OF CERTIFICATES OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND
NECESSITY.
   (A)   An applicant may appeal the denial of an application for a taxicab or
limousine franchise certificate of public convenience and necessity by the
Chief of Police or designee. Such appeal will be to the City Council, be in
writing and state the specific reason(s) for the appeal. The appeal must be
received in the office of the city clerk within ten business days after the
date of the denial. The applicant must include the reason for the appeal, any
documents, the names and addresses of any person(s) that the applicant contends
or asserts are sufficient to support the appeal and reverse the decision to
deny.
   (B)   If a timely notice of appeal and the required submissions stated in
(A) above are received, a public hearing on the denial and issue(s) raised in
the appeal will be held before the City Council within 30 days of the receipt
of the appeal.
   (C)   Any request to continue the hearing must be submitted to the city
clerk, and a decision to approve or deny the request will be made by the city
clerk.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-18 EXPIRATION OR CESSATION OF OPERATION; DEATH OF FRANCHISEE.
   (A)   If a holder shall for any period of time, in excess of 60 days, fail
to operate such franchise, that holder shall offer in writing to the Chief of
Police an explanation for such failure to so operate. If such explanation fails
to satisfy the Chief of Police of its reasonableness, the Chief of Police shall
notify the City Council and the council may, after a hearing, revoke the
certificate or condition a revocation upon compliance with any reasonable order
in relation thereto it deems advisable.
   (B)   Upon the death of a holder, the certificate of public convenience and
necessity shall continue in effect for a period of 60 days, provided that a
responsible person, as approved by the Chief of Police, shall be placed in
charge of the taxicab or limousine operation. At the expiration of the 60 days,
such certificate shall become null and void.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-19 TRANSFER.
   A certificate of public convenience and necessity under this article is not
transferable without the consent of the Chief of Police. Applications for a
transfer of such a certificate shall be filed in the same manner as an
application for a certificate of public convenience and necessity. The
proceedings upon such application for a transfer shall be the same as those
described for the issuance of a certificate, except that the question of public
convenience and necessity need not be proved.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-20 SUBSTITUTION OF VEHICLES.
   A holder, by appropriate endorsement on the certificate by the Chief of
Police, may substitute another vehicle for the vehicle for which the
certificate was granted. Before any such vehicle may be approved as a
substitute vehicle, it shall first meet the inspection requirements and any
other inspection required by the state. In such instance, the liability
insurance or bonds shall also be transferred to such substitute vehicle.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-21 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Chief of Police may, at any time after a hearing, revoke any
certificate of public convenience and necessity issued by authority of this
article for any one or more of the following causes:
      (1)   Failure to operate the taxicabs or limousines specified in the
certificate issued lo the holder in accordance with this article; or operating
taxicabs or limousines other than those specified on the certificate;
      (2)   Failure to maintain motor equipment in good repair, in accordance
with the requirements of this article and/or state law;
      (3)   Failure to carry liability insurance or bond as is required by this
chapter;
      (4)   Failure to pay to the city taxes or license fees levied or imposed
upon such taxicabs or limousines;
      (5)   More than three violations in a calendar year, not necessarily
resulting in convictions, by the holder’s drivers of city, county or state
traffic and safety ordinances or laws, or state laws relating to alcoholic
beverages or prostitution;
      (6)   Failure to report accidents as required by G.S. Ch. 20;
      (7)   Repeated and persistent acts by one or more of the holder or
holder’s drivers impugning their truthfulness or veracity, including but not
limited to acts of fraud and deception;
      (8)   Willful failure to comply with any provision of this chapter or
other ordinances or state laws relating to the operation of taxicabs or
limousines; or
      (9)   Any charge alleging assault or domestic violence.
   (B)   No certificate shall be revoked until the holder has had at least ten
days’ notice by personal service or registered mail of the charges against him
and of the time and place of hearing.
   (C)   Any holder of a certificate of public convenience and necessity that
is revoked may appeal to the City Council within ten days of the date of the
notice of the revocation, by providing a written notice of appeal to the City
Clerk. No appeal will be permitted if the written notice is not received by the
City Clerk within the time limits stated. The appealing party must include the
reason for the appeal, any documents, the names and addresses of any person(s)
that the applicant contends or asserts are sufficient to support the appeal and
reverse the decision to revoke.
   (D)   The City Clerk will schedule the hearing before the City Council and
provide notice of the hearing to the appealing party.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-22 RECORDS; COLLECTION OF FEES.
   All records relative to the issuance of certificates, inspection of
vehicles, assignments of taxicab numbers and substitution of vehicles shall be
kept and maintained by the police department, provided that the responsibility
for collection of all privilege license fees shall be retained by the Financial
Services Department. It shall be the responsibility of the owner to report any
changes in contact information for the owner or the driver to the taxicab
inspector within ten days of the change. It shall also be the responsibility of
the owner to notify the taxicab inspector when new drivers are hired or when
drivers are no longer employed by the owner. Failure to do so will subject the
offender to a $100 civil penalty.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
ARTICLE C. INSPECTIONS
SEC. 11-1-51 INSPECTION OF VEHICLES AS PREREQUISITE; SUBSEQUENT INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Before any certificate of public and necessity for a taxicab or
limousine will be issued under the provisions of this chapter, the applicant
shall present to the taxicab inspector proof of inspection by an inspector
certified by the State of North Carolina to conduct vehicle inspections. Such
proof of inspection shall have been issue not more than 60 days prior to the
submission of the vehicle for inspection by the taxicab inspector. Such
inspection shall include all equipment inspected as identified in G.S. 20-183.3
or its successor statutes.
   (B)   Each taxicab, limousine, contract service vehicle, transport service
or other vehicle for hire except pedi-cabs operated within the city shall be
inspected at least once annually during the month of August. Each approved
taxicab, limousine, contract service, transport service or other vehicle for
hire shall have affixed to the lower left side of the rear glass, a city police
department inspection sticker. A list of all approved taxicabs, limousines,
contract services, transport services or other vehicles for hire shall be
furnished to the financial services department and no privilege license shall
be issued for any taxicab, limousine, contract service, transport service or
other vehicle for hire failing this inspection. Each vehicle owned, operated or
controlled by the certificate holder, the contract service, transport service
or other vehicle for hire that is not inspected shall be subject to a civil
penalty in the amount of $250. At the time of the inspection, the owners of
such vehicles for hire as described above shall present to the taxicab
inspector proof of inspection as required in section 11-51-1(A) above except
that such proof of inspection shall not have been issued more than 60 days
prior to presentment to the taxicab inspector or other current state inspection
certification provided by the State of North Carolina since the last city
required vehicle inspection.
   (C)   The taxicab inspector may conduct random vehicle inspections of any
taxicab, limousine, contract service vehicle, transport service or other
vehicle for hire at times and places other than the time and place designated
for the annual inspection.
   (D)   If a company operating certificate holder, vehicle operating permit
holder, or a driver fails to make a passenger vehicle for hire available for
inspection within 24 hours after being requested to do so, the Chief of Police
or designee may order the passenger vehicle for hire removed from service until
it is made available for inspection.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-52 INSPECTION ITEMS.
   (A)   Each taxicab, limousine, contract service vehicle, transport service
or other vehicle for hire owner shall maintain a monthly vehicle inspection log
showing the items in this section have been inspected and the date of any
correction. Such inspection logs will be made available to the taxicab
inspector or members of the Greenville Police Department upon request. Failure
to maintain such inspection logs shall subject the vehicle operator to a civil
penalty in the amount of $50 for each violation of this paragraph.
   (B)   In addition to the proof of inspection as required by section
11-1-51 above, except as provided in subsection (C) regarding low-speed vehicle
taxicabs, each taxicab, limousine, contract service vehicle, transport service
or other vehicle for hire during the annual inspection required by this section
shall have the following equipment items inspected by the taxicab inspector and
the vehicle owner shall maintain the inspection log referenced in this section
for the following equipment:
      (1)   Each taxicab shall have a minimum of three doors allowing entry
into the driver’s compartment of the vehicle and allowing entry into the
passenger’s compartment of the vehicle. All doors must be operable from the
inside and outside and constructed with a double or safety lock on each door.
      (2)   All upholstery covering or interior lining in any passenger vehicle
for hire shall be substantially free of cuts, tears, rips or stains.
      (3)   Floor mats of rubber or other material shall be provided and shall
at all times be removable. No passenger vehicle for hire shall have on the
floor of the vehicle any footrest bracket or other fixture extending above the
top of the floor mat.
      (4)   Working seat belts shall be provided for each passenger of a
passenger vehicle for hire to the extent required as original equipment by the
federal government.
      (5)   Windshield wiper and defroster operable and adequate;
      (6)   Mirrors, rear and left side view free of cracks and defects;
      (7)   Windshield shall be clean and clear from both the outside and
inside, free of cracks, chips, scratches or any other condition that reduces
clarity of vision. All windows of the vehicle must have a light transmittance
of 70% or more, with the exception of the uppermost six inches of the front
windshield.
      (8)   Windows shall be intact and must open and close properly: no
decals, posters, or other materials on windows, other than credit card
acceptance decals and PVH decals. Window gaskets shall not have any dry rot or
leak;
      (9)   Taxicab windows shall not be equipped with shades, curtains, film
or coatings to such extent that the occupants of the vehicle cannot be seen
from the outside of the vehicle;
      (10)   Toplight (taxicabs only) equipped with a top light of as required
by this chapter. The toplight shall be in working order as required by this
chapter;
      (11)   Heater and air conditioner operable. Heater must not produce smell
of coolant in interior of vehicle. The heater and air conditioner must be able
to adequately cool or heat the vehicle in cold or warm weather as required;
      (12)   Headlights, tail lights, parking lights, turn signal lights, brake
lights, backup lights, license plate lights, side lights and emergency flashers
operable. Must also be covered with undamaged lenses of appropriate type and
color;
      (13)   Accessible vehicle equipment (for any vehicle equipped with such),
including wheelchair ramps, tie-downs, safety belts and wheelchair lifts well
maintained and operable;
      (14)   Door handles and locks. All doors shall operate easily, shall
close securely from both the outside and inside of the vehicle, and shall be
accessible to passengers. No devices that restrict the ability of a passenger
from readily exiting the vehicle in an emergency are allowed;
      (15)   Tires, including spare (with tire jack and handle), properly
inflated and having minimum tread depth of 2/32-inch and free of defects. Spare
tire and jack shall be properly secured using manufacturer’s equipment in
designated trunk area;
      (16)   Vehicle wheels properly aligned, matching hubcaps or wheel covers,
wheel rims of uniform type, size and color. All shall have hubcaps attached
unless the wheels are of a design which do not require hubcaps;
      (17)   Horn operable; loud, clear sound;
      (18)   Interior panels properly secured, free of tears and dirt;
      (19)   Interior lights and driver instrument displays (speedometer,
odometer, gear selection indicator, seat belt warning light, and engine warning
system) operable;
      (20)   Headliner clean, completely attached to interior ceiling and along
edges;
      (21)   Seats clean, unbroken and fastened securely, no exposed springs,
wires or framework;
      (22)   Accelerator, brake, emergency brake, and clutch pedals. Rubber
pads in good condition, no exposed metal;
      (23)   Trunk or luggage area. Floor covering, clean, free of offensive
odors, litter, and items or materials that could damage or sfain the
passenger’s baggage and shall be free of any flammable liquids or other
hazardous materials. Trunk shall contain nothing except spare tire, tire jack
and handle, emergency tools, and chill car seat. Spare tire and jack shall be
secured in proper location using manufacturer’s equipment;
      (24)   Bumpers, grills, and body molding. Advertisements on racks are
permitted if such do not impede operator visibility and the racks are attached
in a safe manner;
      (25)   All bumpers and body moldings shall be in good condition and
properly attached as when manufactured;
      (26)   Vehicle body shall be free from dents, rust and holes which impair
its safety or appearance. Unacceptable body defects (dents, creases, blemishes,
ripples, rust or holes) which impair the appearance or serviceability of the
vehicle include:
         (a)   A body defect six linear inches or greater and where the deepest
point of depression is one-quarter-inch or greater;
         (b)   A body defect three inches in width or greater and three inches
in height or greater and where the deepest point of depression is one-quarter-
inch or greater;
         (c)   Any defect which is one-half-inch at the deepest point of
depression regardless of width or height (this includes any hole in the surface
area);
         (d)   Exterior paint which is not uniform in color, does not
completely cover the vehicle; or
         (e)   Any body panel, trunk, or hood misalignment;
      (27)   Exhaust system. No exhaust leaks, no missing support for tail
pipe;
      (28)   Gas cap for fuel fill.
      (29)   A frame or other device to display the driver’s permit, memorandum
operating permit, and rate schedule to passengers;
      (30)   An operational two-way radio providing direct communication for
immediate dispatch of taxicabs.
   (C)   In addition to the proof of inspection as required by section
11-1-51 above, lowspeed vehicle taxicabs during the annual inspection required
by this section shall have the following equipment items inspected by the
taxicab inspector and the vehicle owner shall maintain the inspection log
referenced in this section for the following equipment and specifications:
      (1)   Headlamps;
      (2)   Front and rear turn signal lamps;
      (3)   Taillamps;
      (4)   Stop lamps;
      (5)   Reflex reflectors: one red on each side as far to the rear as
practicable, and one red on the rear;
      (6)   An exterior mirror mounted on the driver’s side of the vehicle and
either an exterior mirror mounted on the passenger’s side of the vehicle, or an
interior mirror;
      (7)   A parking brake;
      (8)   A windshield that conforms to the Federal motor vehicle safety
standard on glazing materials (49 CFR sec. 571.205);
      (9)   A VIN that conforms to the requirements of part 565 Vehicle
Identification Number of Title 49, Subtitle B., Chapter V. of the Code of
Federal Regulations;
      (10)   A Type I or Type 2 seat belt assembly conforming to 49 CFR sec.
571.209, Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 209, Seat belt assemblies,
installed at each designated seating position.
      (11)   Compliance with the rear visibility requirements specified in
paragraphs S6.2 ofFMVSS No. 111;
      (12)   An alert sound as required by 49 CFR sec. 571.141;
      (13)   Horn operable; loud, clear sound;
      (14)   The vehicle shall be maintained in a clean and safe condition, and
shall be free of:
         (a)   Litter, dirt, and grime, inside and out, including storage
areas;
         (b)   Cracked or broken windows, headlights, taillights or interior
lights;
         (c)   Missing or broken hardware;
         (d)   Tom floor covering, head liner or upholstery;
         (e)   Unusual or unsightly paint defacement;
         (f)   Projections of sheet metal or other materials inside or outside
the taxicab that might cause injury or tear clothing;
         (g)   Tears or rust holes in the vehicle body;
         (h)   Loose pieces such as fenders, bumpers, or trim hanging from the
vehicle body; and
         (i)   Body damage or any condition of the body which would create a
safety problem, interfere with the operation of the vehicle, or cause unusual
or unsightly defacement of the vehicle.
   (D)   Every taxicab, limousine, contract service vehicle, transport service,
or other vehicle for hire owner shall have a vehicle inspection performed on
each vehicle annually each calendar year by a licensed automobile repair
business at the expense of the taxi vehicle owner and an inspection by the
Inspector. If a vehicle fails the inspection, the owner will have 30 days to
take corrective action to fix the deficiency. If the deficiency is not
corrected within the 30-day time limit, the inspector may have the vehicle
removed from service until the deficiency has been corrected. The inspection
form that will be used is located in the Taxicab Safety Book of Standards, and
a copy may be requested from the City Clerk's office.
   (E)   Violations that are determined to present a clear, substantial and
imminent hazard to life, safety, or property shall result is an immediate
suspension of the vehicle operating permit.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-201; Ord. No. 21-060, § 2, passed 10-14-
2021)
SEC. 11-1-53 REMOVAL FROM SERVICE.
   (A)   Any vehicle subject to the provisions of this chapter is subject to
immediate removal from service if the vehicle and the operator fail to produce
any of the following: no proof of insurance, no current registration, no
current vehicle tags, and current inspection. If removed from service, the
vehicle shall not be returned to service until such time as the Chief of Police
or designee can determine the owner and operator are in compliance. Removal
from service shall be in addition to any other state or city penalty or
citation that may be imposed.
   (B)   During the course of any inspection required by this chapter, or at
any other time any vehicle subject to this chapter should be found to be unsafe
or unfit for operation or not kept and maintained in the condition and
appearance required by this article, notice shall be given by the Chief of
Police or designee to the holder of the certificate of public convenience and
necessity issued under this chapter and such vehicle shall not thereafter be
operated as a vehicle for hire for transporting persons until said vehicle has
been placed back into safe condition and inspected by the taxi inspector.
Nothing herein shall be construed to relieve any owner or operator of any
vehicle from any or all duties imposed by law nor relieve such owner or driver
from liability resulting from the unfitness of such vehicles or the negligent
operation thereof.
   (C)   The owner or operator may request a re-inspection of any vehicle
subject to this chapter removed from service for failing to pass any vehicle
inspection required under this chapter at any time the owner or operator
believes such vehicle is ready to be re-inspected within 30 days of the removal
from service. The owner or operator shall be responsible for scheduling such
re-inspection and payment of any inspection fees as required by this chapter.
If the vehicle fails the re-inspection, the vehicle shall be removed from
service for 15 days and may not be re-inspected until after the 15-day period.
If the vehicle fails to pass inspection after the 15-day removal, then, the
owner’s permit and authorization to operate that vehicle shall be withdrawn.
Appeals of the decision to withdraw the permit and authorization to drive a
particular vehicle may be appealed to the City Council, but said vehicle may
not be operated until the decision by the City Council on the appeal.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-54 SIGNS.
   No signs of any shape, size, design or for any purpose may be installed on a
vehicle for hire that interferes with or blocks the front, rear or side windows
or blocks or interferes with any safety lights or equipment. Violations will
result in the imposition of a civil penalty as provided by this chapter.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
ARTICLE D. TAXICABS
DIVISION 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 11-1-61 ANNUAL LICENSE FOR OPERATION OF TAXICAB BUSINESS.
   Every person before operating any taxicab business within the city, or
within a distance of five miles thereof, shall apply to and procure from the
city an annual license for the privilege of operating such business and shall
pay for such annual license a tax in such sum as may be required by the
provisions of
Title 3, Chapter 2 of this Code. This license shall be in addition to any and
all other certificates, permits or documents required by this article.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-62 DUTY TO TRANSPORT PERSONS AND PROPERTY; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any taxicab holder or driver, while on duty, to
refuse to transport any person or property from the point of origin of any trip
to the intended destination, provided such holder or driver shall, at the time
of such request for transportation, have adequate seating capacity or space in
his taxicab for such person or property and not be engaged in proceeding to a
destination to transport a prior fare. Every holder or driver shall have a
right to refuse transportation if:
   (A)   Such holder or driver believes that his safety or that of his
passenger(s) will be placed in jeopardy;
   (B)   Such holder or driver knows from previous experience that the person
seeking transportation has contributed to the disruption of taxicab service,
has caused damage to property, has failed to pay a fare, or committed any
violation of this article;
   (C)   The person being transported jeopardizes the safety of the driver or
passengers or otherwise disrupts service during the transport; or
   (D)   The person seeking transport is under the influence of an impairing
substance.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-63 OPERATING CONDITION OF VEHICLES.
   Every taxicab, limousine, contract service, transport service or vehicle for
hire operating under this chapter shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition. The owner and driver shall keep the body of the vehicle, both
interior and exterior, safe and clean and its general appearance with respect
to sheet metal and finish of car, normal wear and tear exempted. In addition,
when any vehicle is wrecked or damaged so as to be unsafe for operation, the
owner and/or driver shall make such repairs and alterations as may be required
and shall not operate, or cause or permit to be operated, any such vehicle
until such repairs and alterations have been completed and the vehicle has been
re-inspected for compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-64 CONDUCT OF DRIVERS.
   (A)   No driver or operator of a taxicab, limousine, contract service,
transport service or vehicle for hire shall deceive or attempt to deceive any
passenger or prospective passenger as to the passenger’s destination or rate of
fare to be charged nor shall he convey or cause to be conveyed any passenger to
a place other than directed by the passenger. No driver providing for hire
service shall take a longer route to the requested destination than is
necessary, unless he or she is so requested by the passenger, except for shared
ride service as provided in subsection (F) of this section.
   (B)   No tobacco products of any kind may be used by any driver or operator
of a taxicab, limousine, contract service, transport service or other vehicle
for hire while any passenger is being carried. If the driver or operator uses
any tobacco product when not carrying passengers, the driver or operator must
deodorize, clean and remove any evidence of tobacco use from the vehicle before
carrying any passengers.
   (C)   No driver or operator of a taxicab, limousine, contract service,
transport service or vehicle for hire shall park, stand or operate a for hire
vehicle at any time in such a manner as to obstruct the movement of traffic.
Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit drivers or operators of a taxicab,
limousine, contract service, transport service or vehicle for hire from
alighting to the street or sidewalk for the purpose of assisting passengers and
their belongings into or out of a for hire vehicle.
   (D)   No driver or operator of a taxicab, limousine, contract service,
transport service or vehicle for hire shall park or stand a for hire vehicle
upon any public street or public ground in the city for the purpose of
receiving calls, directions or instructions over the dispatch system, except in
areas that the city may subsequently establish as taxicab stands and those
areas where parking is not regulated.
   (E)   No driver or operator of a taxicab, limousine, contract service,
transport service or vehicle for hire shall allow the seating capacity of his
for hire vehicle to be exceeded, including driver. Drivers must ensure that all
seatbelt and infant seat requirements imposed by law are followed by ali
passengers. Children may not be held in the arms of the passenger. No more
passengers than the number of seatbelts which are available for use within the
vehicle shall be permitted.
   (F)   If agreed to by the first passenger, a taxicab may answer other calls
or pick up additional passengers prior to taking the first passenger to his or
her destination, provided the first passenger agrees to the amount of
additional time above the time normally required for the exclusive ride service
as estimated in advance by the driver. Taxicab drivers shall specify any fare
discounts to passengers participating in shared ride service. If a child under
16 years of age and unaccompanied by a person 16 years or age or older is the
original passenger, no other passengers shall be permitted in the taxicab.
   (G)   No driver shall refuse or neglect to convey any person because of the
person’s race, color, national origin, religion, sex, age or disability.
   (H)   Drivers shall be clean in dress and in person.
   (I)   No driver or operator of a taxicab, limousine, contract service,
transport service or vehicle for hire shall be under the influence of drugs or
alcohol, which impairs judgment, performance or behavior while on duty.
   (J)   The driver shall inspect each for hire vehicle daily for articles left
by passengers and make every reasonable effort to return such to the rightful
owrers as soon as possible after their discovery. If the owner cannot be
located or determined, the lost article shall be turned over to the Greenville
Police Department not later than 48 hours after the article is found along with
the record of attempts to locate the rightful owner.
   (K)   When requested by a passenger, every driver shall give a receipt
showing the company’s name, driver’s name, date, place and time of trip, origin
and destination and the amount of fare charged. Any citation issued for
overcharging or failing to provide a receipt shall be issued to the driver of
the taxicab.
   (L)   No driver shall monitor the dispatch frequencies of other taxicab
businesses.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-65 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   Every accident involving the operation of a for hire vehicle shall be
reported to the taxicab inspector within 48 hours of the accident, excluding
Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. The certificate holder for the vehicle
for hire involved in an accident and the driver of the vehicle for hire so
involved shall be jointly and individually responsible for making the required
report, which report shall be on a form to be furnished by the taxicab
inspector. Upon receipt of the report, the taxicab inspector shall determine
whether the damage renders the vehicle unsafe for operation and, if so, shall
immediately order the vehicle out of service until repaired and re-inspected.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-66 MANIFEST.
   (A)   A daily manifest shall be maintained by the owner of each taxicab
noting all trips made each day, showing the driver’s name, cab number, place
and time of origin and destination of each trip and the amount of fare. Each
driver shall complete an entry on the manifest for each fare incurred whether
the driver is dispatched by phone or radio communication.
   (B)   Every owner shall retain and preserve all drivers’ manifests in a safe
place for at least 180 days and such manifests shall be made available upon
demand for inspection by the taxicab inspector.
   (C)   All such completed manifests shall be returned to the holder by the
driver at the conclusion of his tour of duty and shall be open for inspection
at any reasonable time to any Greenville police officer whose duty it is to
enforce the provisions of this chapter. The forms for such records shall be
furnished to the driver by the holder and shall be of a character approved by
the Chief of Police.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-67 TAXICABS USED FOR PRIVATE PURPOSES.
   No taxicab shall be used other than as a vehicle for hire, unless the
driver’s permit is first removed therefrom and an “off-duty” sign is thereon
prominently displayed.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
DIVISION 2. DRIVER’S PERMITS
SEC. 11-1-81 DRIVER’S PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive any taxicab carrying passengers for hire from place to
place within the city, or within a distance of five miles thereof, unless that
person shall have first applied to and secured from the Chief of Police a
permit to drive a taxicab. Permits are valid only for the holder named on the
permit. An application for a permit to drive for another holder within six
months of the date of initial issuance or subsequent renewal will constitute a
transfer and shall be applied for on a form supplied by the City Police
Department. An apt lication for a permit to drive for another holder in excess
of six months from the date of initial issuance or subsequent renewal shall
constitute a renewal and the applicant shall comply with all provisions of this
article. Upon receipt of an application for a permit to operate a taxicab
within the city, the Chief of Police shall, within 14 calendar days, issue a
permit, if consistent with this article.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-82 PERMIT APPLICATION; FINGERPRINTS AND PHOTOGRAPH AS PART THEREOF.
   (A)   The application for a permit or renewal to drive a taxicab shall be
made upon forms furnished by the Chief of Police.
   (B)   No driver’s permit shall be issued to any person until and unless such
person shall have made and filed with the Chief of Police an application, sworn
to before a notary public or other officer authorized to administer oaths. The
sworn application for such permit or renewal thereof shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Whether there are any unpaid judgments of record against such
owner, and if so, the title of all actions and the amount of all judgments
unpaid, and reference to the judgment docket and page where the judgment is
recorded;
      (3)   The make, type, year of manufacture, serial number, engine number
and passenger capacity of each taxicab to be operated under the driver’s permit
applied for;
      (4)   The applicant shall further appear at the city police department
for the purpose of having his fingerprints taken and photograph made, both of
which constitute part of his or her application;
      (5)   The applicant shall provide proof of insurance in the amounts
required by this chapter.
      (6)   Whether there are any liens, mortgages or other encumbrances on
such taxicabs, and, if so, the amount and character thereof;
      (7)   The experience of the applicant in the transportation of passengers
for hire; and
      (8)   Any person applying for a driver’s permit or renewal under this
division shall produce a completed drug screen report with a date not less than
ten calendar days prior to submission of the completed application or renewal.
Such drug screen tests shall be at the expense of the applicant and at the drug
screen testing facility directed by the Chief of Police.
   (C)   Each applicant shall submit to a controlled substance test as directed
by the Chief of Police and provide authorization for release of the results of
such testing to the Chief of Police and those involved in the permitting
process or any appeals. The test must be not less than the full ten-panel test
required by the Department of Transportation. The cost of the testing shall be
borne by the applicant. The request for testing and the results of the test
both shall constitute and become part of the application.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-83 CHIEF OF POLICE TO INVESTIGATE.
   The Chief of Police shall investigate the facts stated in the application,
taking into account the factors set forth in section
11-1-84. A criminal history shall be requested from sources permitted by law.
The Chief of Police shall report his or her findings in writing, including all
supporting documentation, with his or her determination as to whether a permit
is issued to the applicant. The Chief of Police shall notify the applicant in
writing whether the application is approved or denied and if denied, the reason
or reasons for the denial.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-84 REFUSAL AND REVOCATION.
   The following factors shall be deemed sufficient grounds upon which the
Chief of Police may refuse to issue a driver’s permit or may revoke a permit of
any driver already issued such permit:
   (A)   Conviction of a felony against the state or conviction of any offense
against another state, which would have been a felony if committed in this
state. This section shall not apply to felony convictions (as defined herein)
which occurred more than ten years from the date of the application or
revocation;
   (B)   Violation of any federal or state law relating to the use, possession
or sale of any alcoholic beverage as defined by G.S. Ch. 18 or any controlled
substance as defined by G.S. Ch. 90 within five years of the application for a
driver’s permit. Such permit may be revoked if the violation occurred during
the issuance period;
   (C)   Conviction, no contest plea, judgment continued or deferred for
operation of any motor vehicle while under the influence of an impairing
substance and/or the receipt of a restricted driving privilege by the North
Carolina Department of Motor Vehicles as a result of such arrest, conviction,
judgment continued or deferred for driving while under the influence of an
impairing substance. Any permit issued will be revoked and no initial
application or application for reinstatement may be submitted until
unrestricted driving privileges are granted by the North Carolina Department of
Motor Vehicles and the applicant has no other violations of federal or state
law;
   (D)   Addiction to or habitual use of any alcoholic beverage as defined by
G.S. Ch. 18 or use of any controlled substances as defined by G.S. Ch. 90 not
therapeutically prescribed;
   (E)   Conviction of any federal or state law relating to prostitution;
   (F)   Not being a legal resident of the United States;
   (G)   Three convictions including any prayer for judgment or continuation of
the judgment within a one-year period of time, of any city, county or state
traffic or safety ordinance or law. For purposes of this subsection, a
conviction is a violation. Violations resulting in not guilty verdicts are not
counted for purposes of this section;
   (H)   A single conviction of a city, county, or state traffic or safety
ordinance or law that grossly endangers the lives of the driver, his or her
passenger(s), or the community;
   (I)   Conviction of any crime involving the use of a weapon of any type;
   (J)   Repeated and persistent acts impugning the driver’s truthfulness or
veracity, including but not limited to fraud or deception;
   (K)   If the applicant, whether initial or for renewal, shall refuse to
submit to a controlled substance test or if the applicant’s controlled
substance test result reveals a positive level for any of the controlled
substances listed in sections 90-89 through 90-94 of the North Carolina
Controlled Substances Act, the application for permit or renewal shall be
denied. If the applicant, whether for initial permit or for renewal, is denied
a permit as a result of a positive controlled substance test, the driver may
not operate a vehicle for hire until a permit is issued and must wait six
months from the date of the denial before re-applying for a permit. Any re-
application shall be treated for fee purposes as an initial application;
   (L)   Any charge alleging assault or domestic violence.
   (M)   Any crime which may reasonably be interpreted as involving moral
turpitude or is so offensive to the public morals or of a sexual perversion as
to justify the conclusion that the applicant is not of good moral character,
including but not limited to those offenses listed in G.S. Ch. 14, Art. 26 and
27, relating to offenses against public morality and decency and crimes related
to prostitution within ten years preceding the application or revocation.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-85 FEE; TERM; RENEWAL.
   Upon issuance of a taxicab driver’s permit, subject to the provisions of
this article, the person to whom such permit is issued shall pay therefore such
fee as may be required by the city Manual of Fees. Such permit shall be renewed
annually. Upon the application for renewal, the applicant for renewal shall be
subject to the same investigation as required for initial issuance and shall
pay such renewal fee as may be required by the city Manual of Fees.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-86 POSTING IN TAXICAB.
   The driver of every taxicab while on duty shall prominently post and display
in such taxicab, so as to be visible to the passengers therein, his or her
permit to drive a taxicab, which shall contain the driver’s photograph,
fingerprint and such other information as required by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-87 ASSIGNMENT OR TRANSFER.
   No owner’s permit granted and issued under this chapter shall be assigned or
transferred. In the event any taxicab operated pursuant to an owner’s permit
issued under this chapter shall become damaged or worn out or for other reason
is rendered unfit for use and its use for taxicab purposes is discontinued by
the holder of the owner’s license pursuant to which such taxicab was operated,
and such licensee desires to operate another vehicle in its place, then such
licensee shall file an affidavit with the taxicab inspector setting forth the
fact that such vehicle has been discontinued in use and that such other vehicle
has replaced it. Such affidavit shall also contain the make, model, serial
number and body style of the vehicle that is being replaced and the same
information for the replacement vehicle.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-88 REVOCATION UPON CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP: ISSUANCE TO NEW OWNER.
   Change of ownership or title to any taxicab shall automatically revoke any
owner’s permit previously granted to the extent applicable to the operation of
such taxicab or taxicabs. The purchaser of any such taxicab shall not operate
such vehicle as a taxicab unless and until he has applied for and has been
granted an owner’s permit in the manner provided by this chapter. For the
purposes of this chapter a change of ownership is deemed to have taken place
if, in addition to other methods usually employed, the owner of any taxicab
leases the same to any person under any lease or other arrangement whereby such
person shall have the right upon the payment of an amount of money or other
consideration of any other thing of value to acquire title at any future date
to such taxicab.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-89 APPEAL TO APPEAL BOARD.
   (A)   Any person who makes application to the Chief of Police and who is
refused a driver’s permit shall have the right of appeal to the Appeal Board as
hereinafter constituted. The applicant must give notice of appeal in writing
within ten calendar days of the notification from the Chief of Police as set
forth in section
11-1-83. The notice of appeal shall be directed to the office of the City
Manager. If such application is a renewal of a currently valid permit, the
refusal to renew by the Chief of Police shall be stayed during the pendency of
the appeal. If the application is for an initial permit, no stay will be
issued. The stay of a refusal to renew can be dissolved pending the appeal by
request of the Chief of Police and a showing that the refusal to renew was a
direct result of a gross act by the applicant that jeopardized the safety of
the applicant, his passengers or the community while he or she was operating a
taxicab vehicle. The request of the Chief of Police to dissolve a stay shall be
made to the City Manager and the applicant shall have a reasonable and timely
opportunity to respond to the same before ruling by the City Manager.
   (B)   The appeal to the Appeal Board shall be conducted within 15 calendar
days of the date of the notice of appeal. The appeal shall be an informal
administrative hearing in which the rules of evidence shall not apply, but the
applicant’s right to confront and cross-examine witnesses against him or her
shall be enforced. The applicant shall be entitled to be represented by counsel
and shall have the right to present evidence, call witnesses and confront and
cross-examine witnesses against him or her. Witnesses shall testify under oath.
The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the principles of due
process.
   (C)   The Appeal Board shall be constituted of three members who shall be
the current City Manager or his or her designee, an elected member from the
Greenville Taxicab Association, and a designated member from the City Council.
There shall be an alternate elected member from the Greenville Taxicab
Association to serve in the event that the applicant is employed by or for the
initial elected member. Each Appeal Board member shall have the right to
question witnesses. The City Manager shall be the chairman and conduct the
hearing and govern procedural questions. The decision of the Appeal Board shall
be by majority vote and said decision shall be made at the conclusion of the
hearing, unless the Appeal Board requests additional evidence. The Appeal Board
may issue probationary or conditional licenses if the mitigating or extenuating
evidence outweighs the decision to revoke, suspend or deny a driver’s permit.
The decision of the Appeal Board shall be documented by the City Manager in
writing, including findings to support their decision, and forwarded to the
applicant within ten calendar days of the conclusion of the hearing.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-90 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION; CAUSES AND HEARINGS.
   (A)   An owner’s permit may be suspended or revoked by the Appeal Board at
any time in case the Appeal Board finds and determines:
      (1)   That the past record of the holder of the owner’s permit is
unsatisfactory and that it is detrimental to and not in the public interest to
permit the continued operation of a taxicab business by such person; or
      (2)   That the owner has failed to operate the taxicab or taxicabs in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter; or
      (3)   That the taxicab or taxicabs of the owner have been operated at a
rate of fare other than that provided by this chapter; or
      (4)   That the holder of a permit has failed to register properly with
the State, in the correct and true owner’s name, any taxicab covered by the
owner’s permit; or
      (5)   That the holder of an owner’s permit has been convicted of a
felony; or violation of any federal or state statute or city ordinance relating
to the possession or sale of intoxicating liquors; or violation of any federal
or state statute or city ordinance relating to prostitution; or any federal or
state statute or city ordinance relating to the use, possession or sale of
narcotic drugs; or repeated violations of traffic laws or ordinances; or
becomes a habitual user of intoxicating liquors or narcotic drugs; or
      (6)   That the holder of any owner’s permit has made a false or
misleading statement on his or her application.
   (B)   An owner’s permit may be temporarily suspended by the Chief of Police
when it is found that there has been a violation of subsection (A). Notice of
suspension will be delivered to the owner in person or through registered mail.
The notice shall state that the owner may have a hearing bufore the Chief of
Police within ten days upon the written request of the owner. The owner will
have the right to appeal to the Appeal Board in writing within ten days of the
decision of the Chief of Police. It shall be unlawful for an owner to operate a
taxicab business regulated by this article during the pendency of an appeal
taken pursuant to this section.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
DIVISION 3. VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS
SEC. 11-1-100 TAXICAB NUMBERS.
   Whenever a certificate shall be granted under the provisions of this
article, the Chief of Police shall designate upon the certificate a number for
each taxicab to be operated by the holder. Each taxicab shall be given a
different number. It shall be the duty of each holder, before operating such
taxicab, to imprint, legibly and visibly, upon each side and the rear of the
exterior of the body of the taxicab, the number given it by the Chief of Police
in figures at least three and one-half inches in size.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-101 ILLUMINATED SIGNS ON TAXICABS.
   Each taxicab operated in the city shall have an illuminated sign on top of
the taxicab with the name of the taxicab company and the number of the taxicab
legibly and visibly imprinted thereon. Such sign shall be no less than 18
inches in length and lettering thereon shall be no less than three and one-half
inches in height. The taxicab operator shall not berequired to have the sign on
the top of the taxicab illuminated during daylight hours, which shall be that
period from one hour after sunrise to one hour before sunset.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-102 SOLICITATION OF PASSENGERS BY DRIVER.
   (A)   No driver shall solicit passengers for a taxicab except when sitting
in the driver’s compartment of such taxicab or while standing immediately
adjacent to the curbside thereof. The driver of any taxicab shall remain in the
driver’s compartment or immediately adjacent to his or her vehicle at all times
when such vehicle is upon the public street, except upon request to assist in
the handling of baggage of a passenger or prospective passenger.
   (B)   No driver shall solicit patronage in a loud or annoying tone of voice
or by sign or in any manner annoy any person, obstruct the movement of any
person, or follow any person for the purposs of soliciting patronage.
   (C)   No driver shall solicit passengers at the terminal of any other common
carrier.
   (D)   No driver shall solicit passengers from private property without a
notarized written statement granting permission from the property owner. Such
notarized written statement must be maintained insioe the vehicle and be
available to be presented to a police officer upon request.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-103 LOST ARTICLES.
   The driver of a taxicab shall make every effort possible to return any lost
article that may be found in the taxicab to the rightful owner as soon as
possible after discovery of such article. If the owner cannot be located or
determined, the lost article shall be turned over to the police department
within 48 hours of discovery.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-104 UNAUTHORIZED PASSENGERS.
   No taxicab shall be used other than as a vehicle for hire unless the driver
is off duty. No individual except the holder or driver shall be allowed to ride
in a taxicab which is in service unless such individual is a fare-paying
passenger.
SEC. 11-1-105 COMPLIANCE OF PASSENGER’S REQUEST REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each taxicab driver shall comply with all reasonable and lawful
requests of the passenger as to the speed of travel and the route to be taken.
   (B)   The driver of a taxicab shall, upon the request of any passenger, give
to such passenger the correct name and address of such driver and such other
information as will identify the vehicle, driver and owner thereof.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
DIVISION 4. FARES
SEC. 11-1-119 AUTHORITY OF CITY COUNCIL TO ESTABLISH.
   The schedule of fares charged by all taxicabs operating within the city
shall be as fixed by the City Council from time to time.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-120 SCHEDULE OF FARES; EDUCATION.
   (A)   Taxi cabs operating within the jurisdictional city limits of the City
of Greenville may elect charge fares and fees by the installation and use of a
taximeter or by use of the approved zone map and the fares and fees provided in
the Manual of Fees. The election decision is made by the franchise holder and
will apply to all taxicabs operating under the particular franchise. A
franchise holder, may not select both options for use during the same year.
Once the election is made, the franchise holder must comply with the fares and
fees for the selected option for a period of one year. At the end of the year,
the franchise holder may elect to continue with the selected option or may
elect to use the other option but must continue to use that option for one year
until the new option period starts. In the event the franchise holder does not
make an election, the franchise holder shall be deemed to elect the zone maps
and zone fees.
   (B)   Every taxicab that elects to use the taximeter option shall have
affixed thereto and must use a taximeter the model, maker, size, design and
contents of which have been approved by the chief of police or designee and
shall comply with the following provisions:
      (1)   A taximeter is a mechanical instrument or device by which the
charge for hire of a taxicab is mechanically calculated either for distance
traveled or for waiting time or both and upon which such charge shall be
indicated by means of legible figures which are electrically lighted each time
the taximeter is changed from the nonearning position to the earning position.
      (2)   Each taximeter must be driven direct from the taxicab transmission
and not connected to the speedometer driving shaft to the taximeter head
itself, using a flexible shaft and a flexible housing so connected and sealed
as to be non-tamperable.
      (3)   No person shall use or permit to be used upon any taxicab a
taximeter which shall be in such a condition as to be over 5% incorrect to the
prejudice of any passenger.
      (4)   No person shall use or permit to be used or driven for hire a
taxicab equipped with a taximeter the case of which does not have its cover and
gear intact.
      (5)   If requested by the passenger, the driver in charge of the taxicab
shall deliver to the person paying for the hiring of the same at the time of
such payment a receipt thereof in legible type or writing containing the name
of the owner, the vehicle number, the taximeter number and each item for which
a charge is made, the total amount paid and the date of payment.
      (6)   Taxicab owners and operators shall be responsible for the purchase,
installation and maintenance of the approved taximeter.
      (7)   No taxicab shall be operated on a for hire basis unless and until
such installed taximeter has been inspected and passed by the taxicab
inspector. It shall be unlawful to change the size of the wheels or tires or
the gears operating the taximeter or to change a taximeter from one vehicle to
another unless the taximeter is retested and approved by the taxicab inspector.
Violations of this provision will result in revocation of all drivers’ permits
and franchises issued to the owner or operator.
      (8)   The taximeter shall be sealed at all points and connections which,
if manipulated would affect its correct reading and recording. The taximeter on
each taxicab shall be inspected, except as noted in (B)(7) above, annually and
recertified during the regular annual vehicle inspection. If the taximeter is
inspected either randomly or upon complaint and is discovered to be inaccurate,
the owner and/or operator shall immediately cease operations until such
taximeter has been inspected and certified by the taxicab inspection. If such
inspection reveals or discovers the taximeter has been tampered or altered, the
taxicab inspector shall notify the chief of police who will issue notification
of revocation of all driver’s permits and franchises issued to the owner or
operator.
      (9)   Rates established. The rates to be charged by all taxicab companies
and certificate holders doing business in the city for each trip shall be in
accordance with the schedule of rates and fees as set by the City Council and
contained in the Manual of Fees. The taximeter must be engaged at all times
when the taxi is carrying a passenger or passengers. No person or business
operating a taxicab within the corporate limits of the city shall assess,
collect, charge or receive a fare or fee for transporting any passenger within
the corporate limits which is greater than the charges, fees or fares set by
the City Council and contained in the Manual of Fees.
      (10)   Pedi-cabs shall not be required to install taximeters but shall be
permitted to charge such fees and fares as provided in the Manual of Fees as
approved by the City Council.
      (11)   Each vehicle for hire shall post the following information in a
conspicuous place and of such size that it may be read from the rear seat by
the passenger:
         (a)   All rates and fees that may be charged.
         (b)   The name and telephone number of taxi inspector and right to
call.
         (c)   The right of the passenger to request a receipt showing the
fare, additional fees, any discounts received and any tip paid. The driver and
owner shall maintain a copy of the receipt.
      (12)   Each driver shall complete a manifest entry for each passenger
pickup and delivery showing the time and location of pickup, time and location
of drop off, the fare and fees charged and any discounts provided.
   (C)   Every taxicab that elects to use the zone maps and zone fees shall
comply with the following provisions:
      (1)   Adopted; zone map; rates. Under the provisions of G.S. 160A-304 and
section
11-1-119 of this code, the city council shall adopt a schedule of maximum fares
which taxicab operators may lawfully charge for their services within the city:
         (a)   The corporate limits of the city shall be divided into zones,
and these zones shall be reflected on a map entitled “Taxi Fare Service Zones”.
The map shall periodically be revised to reflect expansion of the city’s
corporate limits. Said map and any subsequent revisions to it are hereby
incorporated by reference in this section as if fully set forth.
         (b)   The zones created for the city shall have applicable rates for
each zone. These rates shall be set out in the Manual of Fees for the City of
Greenville.
      (2)   Additional rates. Additional rates may be in effect in certain
situations. These additional rates are described and set forth in the Manual of
Fees for the city.
      (3)   Franchise holders. Use of meters under this section may not be
imposed on a franchise holder and will be on a voluntary basis only.
      (4)   Rates established. The rates to be charged by all taxicab companies
and certificate holders doing business in the city for each trip shall be in
accordance with the schedule of rates and fees as set by the City Council and
contained in the Manual of Fees. No person or business operating a taxicab
within the corporate limits of the city shall assess, collect, charge or
receive a fare or fee for transporting any passenger within the corporate
limits which is greater than the charges, fees or fares set by the City Council
and contained in the Manual of Fees.
      (5)   Each vehicle for hire shall post the following information in a
conspicuous place and of such size that it may be read from the rear seat by
the passenger:
         (a)   All rates and fees that may be charged.
         (b)   The name and telephone number of taxi inspector and right to
call.
         (c)   The right of the passenger to request a receipt showing the
fare, additional fees, any discounts received and any tip paid. The driver and
owner shall maintain a copy of the receipt.
      (6)   Each driver shall complete a manifest entry for each passenger
pickup and delivery showing the time and location of pickup, time and location
of drop off, the fare and fees charged and any discounts provided.
   (D)   Whether the taximeter option or the zone rate option is selected every
franchise holder and every driver upon within two weeks of award of a franchise
or approval of driver permit shall complete an initial training period
conducted by the Chief of Police or designees concerning the duties,
responsibilities and obligations of each franchise holder and driver who
operate vehicles for hire within the city limits of the City of Greenville. All
franchise holders and drivers shall be required to complete an annual refresher
training program as established by the Chief of Police or designees.
      (1)   No vehicles for hire may be operated by the new franchise holder or
new driver until such training has been satisfactorily completed. It will be a
violation of the provisions of this chapter to fail to complete the training
before initial operations are started. Penalties for violations of this chapter
may be assessed for such violations.
      (2)   Failure to satisfactorily complete the annual refresher training
will be treated as a violation of this chapter. Penalties for violations of
this chapter may be assessed for such violations.
      (3)   The initial and annual training programs established and conducted
by the Chief of Police or designees shall include instruction on the following:
         (a)   Compliance with the ordinance.
         (b)   Vehicle inspections.
         (c)   Record keeping.
         (d)   Rates and fees and methods of charging.
         (e)   Violations and penalties.
         (f)   Suspensions and revocations.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011; Ord. No. 11-070, § 1, passed 11-17-
2011)
SEC. 11-1-121 PRIOR NOTICE AND PAYMENT OF FARE.
   The driver of every taxicab shall inform the passenger of the lawful fare
prior to transporting the passenger and may, if he or she so desires, demand
the payment of his lawful fare prior to transporting any person or property.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
ARTICLE E. LIMOUSINES
SEC. 11-1-128 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   Every person, firm or corporation shall apply to and receive from the Chief
of Police an annual license for the privilege of operating a limousine service
within the city, or within the distance of five (5) miles thereof, before
operating such business and shall pay an annual license fee in a sum
established by the City Council. Renewals of a license issued by the City
Council may be issued by the collector of revenue.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-129 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate a
limousine upon the streets of the city without having first applied for and
secured from the Chief of Police a certificate of public convenience and
necessity in accordance with the provisions of Article B of this chapter. For
purposes of insurance, operations, inspections, and licensing limousines, all
provisions of Articles A, B and C also shall apply to limousines.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-130 DRIVER’S PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a limousine carrying passengers
for hire from place to place within the city, or within a distance of five
miles thereof, unless that person shall have first applied to and secured from
the Chief of Police a permit to drive a limousine in accordance with the
provisions of Division 2 of Article D of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-131 APPLICATION OF CONDITIONS.
   All limousines and limousine services operated under the chapter shall
comply with the same requirements for insurance; vehicle maintenance, condition
and inspections; applications; and will be subject to the same grounds for
suspension or revocation of certificates of public convenience and necessity as
taxicabs.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
ARTICLE F. CONTRACT VEHICLES, TRANSPORT SERVICES AND OTHER VEHICLES FOR HIRE.
SEC. 11-1-132 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAWS AND CITY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Every vehicle for hire shall be operated in accordance with the laws
of this state and the ordinances of this city and with due regard for the
safety, comfort and convenience of passengers and for the safe and careful
transportation of property and for the safety of the general public.
   (B)   No vehicle for hire shall be operated at a rate of speed inconsistent
with existing traffic regulations, road conditions, and the hazard at
intersections and any other conditions then existing, nor in such manner or
condition to endanger or to be likely to endanger the safety of passengers,
pedestrians, vehicles or the person and property of others.
   (C)   Vehicles identified under this Article will comply with the
requirements and duties imposed by Article A, Article C, and Article D of this
chapter.
   (D)   No vehicle for hire identified under this article shall operate
without a privilege license as required by
Title 3, Chapter 2, Article C of the Greenville City Code.
   (E)   All drivers of vehicles for hire identified under this Article shall
secure a permit to drive from the Chief of Police in accordance with the
provisions of Division 2 of Article D of this chapter.
   (F)   No signs of any shape, size, design or for any purpose may be
installed on a vehicle for hire that interferes with or blocks the front, rear
or side windows or blocks or interferes with any safety lights or equipment.
Violations will result in the imposition of a civil penalty as provided by this
chapter.
   (G)   Transport services provide an unusual and unique service essentially
different from typical taxicab services and require a special service permit
issued by the Chief of Police or designee. Services under this subsection
include, but are not limited to, fixed route service, para-transit service,
geographically or time-of-day/limited service or any other innovative services.
A special service permit shall be issued under the following conditions:
      (1)   Application for a special service permit shall be addressed in
writing to the Chief of Police and shall designate the proposed service in
detail and shall provide reasons why a regular vehicle operating permit is
inadequate.
      (2)   Approval and subsequent operation under a special service permit
shall be contingent upon any conditions of this article placed in the special
service permit by the Chief of Police. Failure to carry out the conditions of
the special service permit shall be grounds for revocation of the permit.
      (3)   Fees for the application of special service permits shall be set
out in the Manual of Fees.
      (4)   A special service permit holder must also obtain a vehicle
operating permit for the service to be provided.
      (5)   Unless specifically exempted in the special service permit, each
service operating pursuant to a special service permit shall be subject to
every section of this article, including driver permits for each person
operating the transport service vehicle.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
SEC. 11-1-133 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   Every person, firm or corporation shall apply to and receive from the city
an annual license for the privilege of operating a vehicle for hire service
within the city, or within the distance of five miles thereof, before operating
such business and shall pay an annual license fee in a sum established by the
City Council as provided in the Manual of Fees for the City of Greenville.
Gross receipts from tax or business tax filings will be used to determine such
license fees. Renewals of a license issued may be issued by the Financial
Services Department, Collections Division.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011)
ARTICLE G. PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS
SEC. 11-1-140 PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS.
   (A)   All violations of this chapter shall subject the offender to a civil
penalty and, where applicable, suspension of any certificate of public
convenience and necessity or privilege license as provided elsewhere in this
chapter as follows:
      (1)   For a first offense, a civil penalty will be assessed in the amount
of $100.
      (2)   In the event there is more than one violation within any 30 days
period, then the civil penalty shall be increased for each additional violation
over one during such period as follows:
         (a)   The date of the first violation shall establish the beginning
for the initial 30 days period. The next violation within that 30 days period
shall be considered a second violation and shall subject the violator to a
civil penalty of $250.
         (b)   Third and subsequent violations within the same 30 days period
shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $500 for each violation.
   (B)   Once the 30 days period has run from the "first violation," the next
violation shall be considered the first violation for establishing a new 30
days period. Each subsequent violation that follows more than 30 days from the
previous first violation shall be a new first violation for the purpose of
establishing a new 30 days period.
   (C)   The levying of civil penalties shall be initiated by any police
officer or the taxicab inspector giving written notice of the violation
committed to the vehicle for hire owner or driver, along with a statement that
a civil penalty is being imposed.
   (D)   Civil penalties shall be paid within 72 hours of the issue date to
Financial Services, Collections Division. If not paid within the 72 hours of
the date of issue, an additional $50 delinquency charge will be added for each
72 hours period thereafter upon nonpayment until paid in full.
   (E)   The City Attorney or designee is authorized to file suit on behalf of
the city to collect any unpaid citations and any delinquency charge, and the
Police Chief or designee is authorized to verify and sign the complaints on
behalf of the city in such suits. If litigation is required to recover the
penalties and delinquency charges, the City Attorney or designee may recover,
in addition to the penalties and delinquency charges, reasonable attorneys fees
and other costs incurred in bringing the action and collecting the judgment.
   (F)   Additionally, this chapter may be enforced through available equitable
remedies including but not limited to enjoining the operation of any taxi,
limousine, contract service, transport service or other vehicle for hire as
issued by a court of competent jurisdiction. Citations issued to any driver or
operator of any taxi, limousine, contract service, transport service or other
vehicle for hire and not paid when the driver or operator leaves employment of
the business or franchise holder shall be the responsibility of the franchise
holder or business.
   (G)   Any permit required to be issued and renewed under the terms of this
chapter shall not be issued or renewed in the event civil penalties for
violations remain unpaid by the applicant or by an employee of the applicant.
(Ord. No. 11-069, § 1, passed 11-17-2011; Ord. No. 23-048, § 18, passed 6-8-
2023)
ARTICLE H. LOW-SPEED VEHICLE TAXICABS
SEC. 11-1-145 RULES AND REGULATIONS OF LOW-SPEED VEHICLE TAXICABS.
   (A)   Operation on certain streets only. It shall be unlawful for a low-
speed vehicle taxicab to operate within the city limits or between the city to
points, not incorporated, within a radius of five miles of the city where the
posted speed limit is greater than 35 miles per hour unless the low-speed
vehicle taxicab is crossing a road or street at an intersection where the road
or street being crossed has a posted speed limit of more than 35 miles per
hour.
   (B)   Minimum age of drivers. A driver of a low-speed vehicle taxicab must
be at least 18 years of age and possess a current driver’s permit issued in
accordance with this chapter.
   (C)   Signage required. The company insignia or logo with company phone
number shall be either permanently displayed or magnetically affixed to both
sides of the vehicle with at least three-inch lettering and legible from a
distance of at least 75 feet.
   (D)   Display of driver’s permit. Each taxicab must display its driver’s
city permit in a visible and conspicuous place, conspicuous to the rear
passengers.
   (E)   Smoking prohibited. Smoking by any person is prohibited inside all
taxicabs.
   (F)   Passengers to be seated. All passengers shall be seated in seatbelts
while the vehicle is in motion.
   (G)   Hands-free cellular telephone use. No operator of a low-speed vehicle
taxicab shall use a mobile device for any purpose while a passenger is in the
taxicab and the taxicab is in motion, unless such use is exclusively by a
hands-free device.
   (H)   Random inspections. Drivers and companies shall be responsible for
compliance with this section and shall be subject to random inspection to
determine compliance. Any vehicle for hire operated within the city that
violates any provision of this section shall be immediately removed from
service and not reinstated until all violations are corrected.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful to operate a low-speed vehicle taxicab:
      (1)   Carrying more passengers than the number of seats available;
      (2)   In a manner that results in damage to public property;
      (3)   In a manner that results in colliding with a pedestrian;
      (4)   Equipped with a siren or whistle;
      (5)   While knowingly permitting another to attach their bicycle,
coaster, sled, roller skates, skateboard, scooter or other rolling devices to
the vehicle;
      (6)   On a street when the street has a posted speed limit of greater
than 35 miles per hour, except for crossing a road or street at an intersection
where the road or street being crossed has a posted speed limit of more than 35
miles per hour;
      (7)   On a public sidewalk except when stopped to pick up or drop off
passengers;
      (8)   Without a clearly visible vehicle identification number; or
      (9)   On a street or public area that has been ordered closed by the
city.
    (J)   Loading and unloading of passengers. No low-speed vehicle taxicab
driver shall stop to load or unload passengers on the traffic side of the
street, while occupying any intersection or crosswalk, or in such a manner as
to unduly interfere with the orderly flow of traffic. All low-speed vehicle
operators shall pull as close to the curb or edge of the roadway as possible to
take on or discharge passengers.
   (K)   Low-speed vehicle parking. It shall be unlawful to park a low-speed
vehicle taxicab to use any public street, public property, or right-of-way as a
waiting area unless such area is specifically designated as vehicle for hire
waiting or parking area.
(Ord. No. 21-060, § 3, passed 10-14-2021)
CHAPTER 2: REGULATION OF PARADES
Section
   
11-2-1   Definitions
   
11-2-2   Permit required, generally
   
11-2-3   Exceptions
   
11-2-4   Permit; application
   
11-2-5   Same; standards for issuance; revocation
   
11-2-6   Same; notice of action on application; appeal procedure
   
11-2-7   Alternative permit
   
11-2-8   Duties of permittee; duties of parade chairperson
   
11-2-9   Conduct during parade
   
11-2-10   Dangerous weapons
   
11-2-11   Hand-carried signs
   
11-2-12   Parade route
   
11-2-13   Revocation of parade permit; penalties for violation
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see §§
12-2-1 et seq.
   Duties of Chief of Police, see §
5-1-2
   Public Safety, see Title 5
   Temporary street closings, see §
10-2-255
   Transportation and Traffic, see Title 10
Editor’s note:
   Section 1 of Ord. No. 1871, adopted July 14, 1988, deleted former Ch. 2 in
its entirety and enacted a new Ch. 2 in lieu thereof to read as herein set out.
Former Ch. 2 contained §§ 11-2-1—11-2-9, which pertained to demonstrations,
parades and picketing and derived from Code 1971, §§ 11-1—11-8, 11-15, and Ord.
No. 1503, §§ 1, 2, adopted June 6, 1985.
   Former § 11-2-14, “Severability” was deleted at the direction of the city as
being covered by § 1-1-6. The deleted provisions derived from Ord. No. 1871, §
1, adopted July 14, 1988.
SEC. 11-2-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
City. The City of Greenville, North Carolina.
Dangerous weapon. Any device designed or capable of being used to inflict
serious injury upon person or property, including but not limited to firearms,
knives of any kind or any type having a blade in excess of three inches in
length, razors and razor blades, metallic knuckles, clubs, blackjacks, night
sticks and powerful explosives.
Parade.  Any parade, march, ceremony, pageant or procession of any kind moving
upon any public street, way, highway, road or other public place owned or under
control of the city.
Person. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
Working day. A weekday, Monday through Friday, inclusive, but does not include
weekends (Saturday or Sunday), and does not include any day that City Hall is
closed to the public for holiday, inclement weather or the like.
(Ord. No. 1871, § 1, passed 7-14-1988)
SEC. 11-2-2 PERMIT REQUIRED, GENERALLY.
   No person shall engage in or participate in, aid, form or start any parade
unless a parade permit shall have been obtained from the Chief of Police or an
authorized designee.
(Ord. No. 1871, § 1, passed 7-14-1988)
  SEC. 11-2-3 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Funeral processions;
   (B)   Picketing on the sidewalks or other orderly processions on the
sidewalks that do not violate any other city or state law; or
   (C)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Ord. No. 1871, § 1, passed 7-14-1988)
SEC. 11-2-4 PERMIT; APPLICATION.
   A person seeking the issuance of a parade permit shall file a written
application with the Chief of Police on forms provided by the city.
   (A)   Filing period. An application for a parade permit shall be filed with
the Chief of Police not less than five working days before the date on which
the parade is to be conducted; provided, however, where good cause is shown,
the Chief of Police shall have the authority to consider any application which
is filed less than the prescribed filing period.
   (B)   Contents. The application shall be signed by the applicant and
notarized, and shall include the following:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization, and of the authorized and responsible head of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted, and the hours when the
parade will start and terminate;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of person, animals and vehicles
participating in the parade; the type of animals and a description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   A statement as to whether the parade is proposed to occupy all or
only a portion of the width of the streets proposed to be traversed;
      (8)   The location by streets of any assembly areas for the parade;
      (9)   The time when units of the parade will begin to assemble at any
such assembly area or areas; and
      (10)   If the parade is to be sponsored by, or on behalf of, any person
other than the applicant, the applicant for a permit shall file with the
application a written authorization from the person proposing to hold the
parade authorizing the applicant to apply for the permit on his or her behalf.
   (C)   Fee. A nonrefundable fee shall be paid by the person applying for the
parade permit at the time of application to cover expenses incidental to
processing the application. The fee shall be set out in the Manual of Fees for
the City of Greenville.
(Ord. No. 1871, § 1, passed 7-14-1988; Ord. No. 2647, § 1, passed 6-10-1993)
SEC. 11-2-5 SAME; STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE; REVOCATION.
   The Chief of Police or an authorized designee shall issue a permit for the
proposed parade unless it is found that:
   (A)   The safe conduct of the parade will substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will require the diversion of so great a
number of law enforcement personnel of the city to properly police the line of
movement of the parade and of contiguous areas that adequate police protection
cannot be provided to the remainder of the city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances and rescue units that adequate ambulance and rescue
service to portions of the city and contiguous areas not occupied by the parade
will be impeded;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will substantially interfere with adequate police and fire
protection of, or ambulance and rescue service to, areas contiguous to the
assembly areas; or
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment to such an extent that adequate fire protection cannot
be provided to the city.
(Ord. No. 1871, § 1, passed 7-14-1988)
SEC. 11-2-6 SAME; NOTICE OF ACTION ON APPLICATION; APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or an authorized designee shall act upon the
application as expeditiously as reasonably possible and, within 72 hours,
notify the applicant in writing of his or her decision. The notice shall also
inform the applicant of the appeal procedure available under subsection (B) of
this section and the conference available under section
11-2-7 for an alternative permit.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a
parade permit by the Chief of Police to the City Manager. On appeal the City
Manager shall be bound by the standards for issuance stated in section
11-2-5.
(Ord. No. 1871, § 1, passed 7-14-1988)
SEC. 11-2-7 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   If the Chief of Police denies an application for a parade permit based upon
one or more of the findings prescribed in section
11-2-5, the Chief of Police or an authorized designee shall, upon the request
of the applicant, confer with the applicant for the purpose of trying to
negotiate modifications to the planned parade that will eliminate the
objections found under section
11-2-5. The Chief of Police is authorized to grant an alternative permit
specifying a date, time or route different from that contained in the
application. The alternative permit is valid only upon the filing by the
applicant with the Chief of Police or an authorized designee of a written
acceptance of the alternative permit. An alternative permit is void if not
accepted in the manner prescribed in this section within three working days
after its issuance. An alternative permit shall conform to the requirements of
and shall have the effect of a parade permit under this chapter.
(Ord. No. 1871, § 1, passed 7-14-1988)
SEC. 11-2-8 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE; DUTIES OF PARADE CHAIRPERSON.
   (A)   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and
conditions and with applicable laws and ordinances.
   (B)   The parade chairperson or other person leading the parade shall carry
the parade permit upon his or her person during the conduct of the parade. The
parade chairperson shall be physically present at the parade and shall be
responsible for compliance with all the provisions of the parade permit.
(Ord. No. 1871, § 1, passed 7-14-1988)
SEC. 11-2-9 CONDUCT DURING PARADE.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct or impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or
animal participating or used in the parade.
   (B)   Driving through parade. No driver of any vehicle shall drive between
the vehicles or persons comprising a parade when the vehicles or persons are in
motion and are conspicuously designated as a parade.
   (C)   Parade or parade route. The Chief of Police or his or her authorized
designee shall have the authority, when reasonably necessary, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or highway or part thereof
constituting a part of the route of a parade. The Chief of Police or his or her
authorized designee shall cause signs or other warning devices to be posted to
this effect, and it shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave
unattended any vehicle in violation thereof.
(Ord. No. 1871, § 1, passed 7-14-1988)
SEC. 11-2-10 DANGEROUS WEAPONS.
   (A)   Restricted. No dangerous weapon of any kind may be possessed either
exposed or concealed by any participant in the parade, or any person affiliated
with and present at the parade, or any person upon any street, sidewalk, or
other public place within 500 feet of the parade, except as stated in
subsection (B).
   (B)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to the following persons
while acting lawfully and within the scope of their duties and authority:
      (1)   Law enforcement officers;
      (2)   Officers and soldiers of the armed forces, militia, and National
Guard;
      (3)   Students of military science in an accredited program; and
      (4)   Park rangers and Animal Control officers.
(Ord. No. 1871, § 1, passed 7-14-1988)
Cross-reference:
   Discharge of firearms and other weapons, see §
12-1-3
SEC. 11-2-11 HAND-CARRIED SIGNS.
   No cardboard sign or poster carried by hand in the parade shall be of
greater density than eight-ply .030 thickness. No support for the sign or
poster shall be of a metallic substance nor thicker than one inch by three-
fourths inch.
(Ord. No. 1871, § 1, passed 7-14-1988)
SEC. 11-2-12 PARADE ROUTE.
   Every parade shall follow the route designated and approved by the Chief of
Police and prescribed on the parade permit.
(Ord. No. 1871, § 1, passed 7-14-1988)
SEC. 11-2-13 REVOCATION OF PARADE PERMIT; PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   (A)   Permit revocation authorized. A parade permit issued pursuant to this
chapter may be revoked by the Chief of Police upon application of the standards
for issuance stated in section
11-2-5.
   (B)   Violations. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate the
provisions of this chapter or the conditions of the parade permit.
   (C)   Penalties. A violation of this chapter or the conditions of the parade
permit may subject the violator to any or all of the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this chapter or the
conditions of the parade permit shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor
pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and shall pay a criminal penalty of not
less than $100 and not more than $500.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   A violation of any of the provisions of this of this chapter or
the conditions of the parade permit shall subject the violator to a civil
penalty by way of a civil ticket in an amount as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
            2.   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            3.   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
         (b)   Appeals; payment of civil penalty. Unless appealed in accordance
with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, a civil penalty
assessed for a violation of any provision of this section must be paid to and
received by the revenue division of the city's Financial Services Department
within five business days from the date of issuance.
         (c)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with the appeal provisions of this chapter, if full payment for an
assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the revenue division of the
city's Financial Services Department, the city may recover the unpaid civil
penalty by any or all of the following methods:
            1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
            2.   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
            3.   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105 A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
            4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
            5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect,
satisfy, or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (3)   Separate offenses. Each violation of this section and each day that
a violation continues is considered a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 23-048, § 19, passed 6-8-2023)
CHAPTER 3: JUNK DEALERS
Section
   
11-3-1   “Junk dealer” defined
   
11-3-2   License; required; application
   
11-3-3   Same; issuance; revocation; transfer
   
11-3-4   Books to be kept; books and articles open to inspection
   
11-3-5   Purchases from minors
   
11-3-6   Condition of shops and premises
   
11-3-7   Offenses and penalties
SEC. 11-3-1 “JUNK DEALER” DEFINED.
   For the purposes of this chapter, a “junk dealer” is defined to mean and
shall include any person buying and selling any old metal, rope, rags, bones,
cloth, old cotton or any article usually found in junk shops.
SEC. 11-3-2 LICENSE; REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   Every person desiring to engage in the business of a junk dealer shall first
procure a license from the city. The person shall make application, in writing,
to the City Council for the license, specifying in the application the street
and building in which the applicant intends to carry on the business, and, if a
corporation, the names of the persons who are to actively manage the business.
The application shall be signed by at least five citizens of the city
certifying to the good character of the applicant or the active manager.
SEC. 11-3-3 SAME; ISSUANCE; REVOCATION; TRANSFER.
   Whenever the City Council shall have determined to grant a junk dealer’s
license to any applicant, the Collector of Revenue shall, upon payment of the
license tax provided therefor, issue to the applicant a license to carry on the
business. Every license so issued shall be upon the condition, whether or not
expressed in the license, that it may be revoked at any time by the City
Council, upon satisfactory proof that, in conducting the business, the licensee
or any agent or employee of the licensee has or is violating any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever, in the conduct of the business, the
licensee or any person in charge of the business shall be convicted of larceny
or of receiving stolen goods knowing the same to have been stolen. No license
issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be transferred, either as to
parties or location, except upon application and express permission therefor
given by the City Council.
SEC. 11-3-4 BOOKS TO BE KEPT; BOOKS AND ARTICLES OPEN TO INSPECTION.
   Each junk dealer shall keep a book in which he or she shall record all
purchases and sales. Such books as well as any article or thing of value sold
or acquired by a junk dealer shall, at all reasonable times, be open to the
inspection of the Chief of Police or any member of the police force.
SEC. 11-3-5 PURCHASES FROM MINORS.
   No dealer in junk, or his or her agent or employee, shall purchase, take or
acquire, in the course of business, any goods, articles or things of value
whatsoever from any minor under the age of 18 years, or any goods, articles or
things of value, the ownership of which is in or which is claimed by any such
minor, unless the minor’s parent or guardian or the relation or person in whose
care or employ the minor may be at the time, shall state in writing that the
transaction is made with the parent’s, guardian’s, relation’s or employer’s
full knowledge and consent; and it shall be the duty of the dealer to preserve
and keep on file such written statement for the purpose of subsequent reference
thereto. This written permission shall be subject to inspection in like manner
by the Chief of Police or any other police officer of the city as is provided
for under section
11-3-4.
SEC. 11-3-6 CONDITION OF SHOPS AND PREMISES.
   All junk shops and the premises thereof shall be so maintained as not to
permit therein or thereon the accumulation of filthy rags, filthy or offensive
bones or anything else, in such a manner that may be a nuisance or detriment to
health. Every license issued by the City Council is upon condition that all
junk dealers’ places of business shall be so constructed, maintained and
conducted as to comply with health and sanitary regulations and requirements in
force within the city.
SEC. 11-3-7 OFFENSES AND PENALTIES.
   Any junk dealer licensed under this chapter who shall violate any of the
provisions thereof, or who willfully falsifies or causes or suffers to be
falsified, any entry of any article required to be preserved in a book, may
suffer the revocation of his or her license. Any person who shall engage in the
business of a junk dealer after his or her license is revoked, or without first
procuring a license, as is required in this chapter, shall, notwithstanding any
penalty in any tax ordinance to the contrary, be guilty of an offense against
this section.
CHAPTER 4: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS
Section
Article A. General Provisions
   
11-4-1   Permit required
   
11-4-2   Same; application
   
11-4-3   Same; issuance or denial; possession and exhibition
   
11-4-4   Same; appeal from denial
   
11-4-5   Same; duration and renewal
   
11-4-6   Same; not transferable
   
11-4-7   Same; revocation; appeal from revocation
   
11-4-8   Persons exempted from permit requirement
Article B. Solicitations by Nonprofit Organizations
   
11-4-21   Application of article
   
11-4-22   Definitions
   
11-4-23   Authority to issue permits
   
11-4-24   Application
   
11-4-25   Rules and regulations
   
11-4-26   Denial, suspension or revocation of permit
   
11-4-27   Hearing upon denial, suspension or revocation of a permit
   
11-4-28   Administration
Editor’s note:
   Section 4 of Ord. No. 94-86, adopted June 9, 1994, repealed § 11-4-9 which
pertained to registration of itinerants required and derived from Code 1971, §
20-27.
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 11-4-1 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without first obtaining a permit
as in this chapter provided, to go in or upon or permit his or her
representatives to go in or upon any private residence or premises in the city
as solicitor or peddler, not having been requested or invited to do so by the
occupant of the private residence or premises or having procured the occupant’s
permission.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, a “solicitor” or “peddler” shall be
defined as anyone soliciting or peddling orders for the sale of goods, wares,
magazines, or other periodicals or merchandise.
(Ord. No. 94-86, § 2, passed 6-9-1994)
SEC. 11-4-2 SAME; APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring to engage in the business of or practices referred to in
section
11-4-1 shall file with the Chief of Police an application for a permit to do
so. The application shall be in writing, under oath, and shall show the
applicant’s name, age, fingerprints, current address and his or her place of
residence, names and addresses of previous employers and nature of specific
employment during the preceding year, at least three credit references, the
address and nature of business of this current employer or principal, if any,
and shall specify in detail the goods, wares, periodicals, magazines or other
merchandise to be offered for sale and shall state whether or not the applicant
has been convicted of any crime involving moral turpitude and, if so, the
nature of the crime and the place and time convicted. The applicant shall also
furnish, at the time of filing his or her application, two 2-1/2-inch by 2-1/2-
inch photographs made within one year of the date of the application, and shall
give to the Chief of Police such other requested information as may be of
assistance to him or her in passing upon the qualifications of the applicant.
If the application is filed by an employer there shall also be filed a separate
application for each solicitor, giving the information set forth above as to
the qualifications of the solicitor, which shall be signed and sworn to by each
solicitor.
SEC. 11-4-3 SAME; ISSUANCE OR DENIAL; POSSESSION AND EXHIBITION.
   If, after investigating the applicant, the Chief of Police determines that
the applicant for a permit required by this chapter is qualified as a law
abiding person, has good credit standing and a verifiable employment history
and proposes to engage in a lawful commercial or professional enterprise during
hours that will not unduly disturb the occupants of residences, the Chief of
Police shall issue to him or her a permit to engage in the business, which
permit shall contain substantially the information set forth in his or her
application and to which shall be attached his or her photograph and
fingerprints. The permit shall be carried at all times by the person to whom
issued when soliciting or canvassing in the city and shall be exhibited by him
or her whenever required to do so by any police officer or any person
solicited. If the Chief of Police, upon investigation, determines that the
applicant is not qualified as herein provided and does not propose to engage in
a lawful commercial or professional enterprise during hours reasonably
convenient for the occupants of residences, he or she shall refuse to issue the
permit.
SEC. 11-4-4 SAME; APPEAL FROM DENIAL.
   Upon the refusal of the Chief of Police to grant a permit under this
chapter, the applicant thereafter may appeal to the City Council, and if the
City Council shall be satisfied that the applicant and his or her proposed
business and hours of work meet the requirements set forth in this chapter, it
shall direct the Chief of Police to issue the permit; otherwise the permit
shall be refused.
SEC. 11-4-5 SAME; DURATION AND RENEWAL.
   The Chief of Police shall determine from the application and from such facts
as may be developed in connection with the application the period for which a
permit under this chapter shall be approved and granted; provided, that the
period shall in no case exceed 12 calendar months. Upon the expiration of the
permit the Chief of Police may, upon application filed in the form and giving
the information required in the original application, renew and extend the
permit for additional periods not to exceed 12 calendar months for any one
period.
SEC. 11-4-6 SAME; NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No permit approved and issued pursuant to this chapter shall be
transferable.
SEC. 11-4-7 SAME; REVOCATION; APPEAL FROM REVOCATION.
   If, after the issuance of a permit pursuant to this chapter, it should
appear that the facts set forth in the permittee’s application are untrue, or
if he or she is convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude or engages in
business other than as set forth in his or her permit or fails to utilize the
permit in good faith and for the purpose issued, the permit shall be revoked by
the Chief of Police and from the revocation the permittee may, if he or she
desires, appeal to the City Council.
SEC. 11-4-8 PERSONS EXEMPTED FROM PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions of this article shall not apply to organizations or
representatives of organizations organized and operating exclusively for
educational, benevolent, religious, fraternal, charitable, patriotic or civic
purposes and not operating for profit and where the solicitations or sales are
made without remuneration to the solicitor.
(Ord. No. 94-86, § 3, passed 6-9-1994)
ARTICLE B. SOLICITATIONS BY NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS
SEC. 11-4-21 APPLICATION OF ARTICLE.
   The rules and regulations contained in this article shall govern
solicitations by charitable organizations in the city.
(Ord. No. 1032, passed 12-11-1980)
SEC. 11-4-22 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Charitable organization. Any person which is or holds itself out to be
organized or operated for any charitable purpose or any person who solicits or
obtains contributions solicited from the public for charitable purposes.
Charitable purpose.  Any charitable, benevolent, religious, philanthropic,
environmental, public or social advocacy or eleemosynary purpose for religion,
health, education, social welfare, art and humanities, civic and public
interest.
Contribution. Any promise, gift, bequest, device or other grant for
consideration or otherwise, of any money or property of any kind or value,
including the promise to pay, which contribution is wholly or partly induced by
a solicitation. The term “contribution” shall not include payments by members
of an organization for membership fees, dues, fines or assessments, or for
services rendered to individual members, if membership in the organization
confers a bona fide right, privilege, professional standing, honor or other
direct benefit, other than the right to vote, elect officers or hold offices;
nor any money, credit, financial assistance or property received from any
governmental authority.
Door-to-door solicitations. Solicitations conducted from house to house in
residential areas of the city.
On-street solicitation.  Solicitations conducted in and on the public streets,
at street intersections and on traffic islands.
Sale and benefit affair.  Includes but is not limited to athletic or sports
event, bazaar, benefit, campaign, circus, contest, dance, drive, entertainment,
exhibition, exposition, party, performance, picnic, sale, social gathering,
theater or variety show which the public is requested to patronize or attend or
to which the public is requested to make a contribution for any charitable or
religious purpose connected therewith.
Sale, sell and sold. The transfer of any property or the rendition of any
service to any person in exchange for consideration, including any purported
contribution without which the property would not have been transferred or the
services would not have been rendered.
Sidewalk solicitations. Solicitations conducted on the city sidewalks, the
mail, shopping centers, stores, businesses or any public place.
Solicit and solicitation.
      (1)   The request or appeal, directly or indirectly, for any contribution
on the plea or representation that the contribution will be used for a
charitable purpose, including without limitation the following methods of
requesting the contribution:
         (a)   Any oral or written request;
         (b)   Any announcement to the press, over the radio or television or
by telephone or telegraph concerning an appeal or campaign to which the public
is requested to make a contribution for any charitable purpose connected
therewith;
         (c)   The distribution, circulation, posting or publishing of any
handbill, written advertisement or other publication which directly or by
implication seeks to obtain public support;
         (d)   The sale of, offer or attempt to sell, any advertisement,
advertising space, subscription, ticket, or any service or tangible item in
connection with which any appeal is made for any charitable purpose; or where
the name of any charitable organization is used or referred to in any such
appeal as an inducement or reason for making any such sale; or when or where in
connection with any such sale, any statement is made that the whole or any part
of the proceeds from the sale will be donated to any charitable purpose.
      (2)   “Solicitation” as defined herein shall be deemed to occur when the
request is made, at the place the request is received, whether or not the
person making the same actually receives any contribution.
(Ord. No. 1032, passed 12-11-1980)
SEC. 11-4-23 AUTHORITY TO ISSUE PERMITS.
   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to issue permits to charitable
organizations for solicitations in the city limits for charitable purposes.
(Ord. No. 1032, passed 12-11-1980)
SEC. 11-4-24 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every charitable organization which intends to solicit contributions
within the city limits or have funds solicited on its behalf shall, at least
five working days prior to the solicitation, obtain and file an application
with the Chief of Police upon forms prescribed for a permit to solicit. The
application shall be in writing and show the name of the applicant
organization; its national, state and local headquarters addresses, if any; the
names and addresses of its national, state or local officers and/or
representatives; whether or not the applicant organization or its solicitors
have been convicted of any offense related to solicitation in the past five
years; the particular areas of the city in which solicitation shall take place
and the manner in which it shall be conducted.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for a permit under this article, the
Chief of Police shall review each application; and if found to be accurate and
in compliance with the requirements of this article, it shall be approved.
   (C)   Notification of approval or disapproval of an application filed under
this article shall be in writing to the organization filing the application.
(Ord. No. 1032, passed 12-11-1980)
SEC. 11-4-25 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Every charitable organization receiving a permit to solicit shall follow the
following rules and regulations.
   (A)   Any fund-raising activity by a charitable organization, including but
not limited to a solicitation, request for contributions, sale, benefit affair
and the like, shall be subject to this article;
   (B)   On-street solicitations will not be allowed in the city limits;
   (C)   Volunteer workers or solicitors for charitable organizations shall
wear official solicitation badges as issued by the Police Department at all
times while soliciting;
   (D)   Collection containers used in solicitations must be sealed and
properly identified;
   (E)   Each contributor must be given a proper receipt as approved by the
Chief of Police;
   (F)   Sidewalk solicitors shall not interfere with the free movement of
pedestrian traffic;
   (G)   Solicitations will not be permitted after 9:00 p.m. nor before 9:00
a.m.;
   (H)   The city will accept no liability for accidents caused directly or
indirectly by any solicitation;
   (I)   All charitable organizations conducting solicitations in the city must
hold a valid solicitation license issued by the Secretary of the North Carolina
Department of Human Resources in accordance with G.S. Chapter 131F or be exempt
from the licensing provisions of G.S. Chapter 131F;
   (J)   All nonprofit organizations conducting solicitations in the city must
comply with all requirements of G.S. Chapter 131F as is now in existence or
shall be hereafter amended; and
   (K)   A solicitation conducted pursuant to this article shall be granted for
a period of time not to exceed three consecutive calendar months, and can be
renewed for successive three-month intervals.
(Ord. No. 1032, passed 12-11-1980)
SEC. 11-4-26 DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police shall revoke, suspend or deny issuance of a permit to a
charitable organization at any time upon a finding that:
   (A)   One or more of the statements in the application are not true;
   (B)   The applicant or its solicitors have been convicted of an offense in
connection with solicitation within the past five years;
   (C)   The applicant or its solicitors fail to comply with any of the
provisions of this article; and/or
   (D)   The applicant or any of its solicitors have within the past five years
violated one or more provisions of this article while conducting a solicitation
in the city limits under a permit issued by the city.
(Ord. No. 1032, passed 12-11-1980)
SEC. 11-4-27 HEARING UPON DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF A PERMIT.
   (A)   Before any application for a solicitation permit is denied under
section
11-4-26 of this article, the applicant shall be afforded an opportunity to have
a due process hearing before the City Manager. The applicant will receive
written notice of the Chief of Police’s finding that the applicant fails to
meet section
11-4-26 requirements and of the date, time, and place of the hearing. At the
hearing the Chief of Police will present evidence and the applicant will have
an opportunity to present his or her evidence, rebut evidence entered against
him or her, and show his or her fitness to solicit within the city.
   (B)   If a permit is suspended or revoked because of any of the reasons set
out in section
11-4-26 above, the holder thereof is entitled to appeal for an administrative
due process hearing before the City Manager or his or her assistant.
(Ord. No. 1032, passed 12-11-1980)
SEC. 11-4-28 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to administer and enforce this
article.
(Ord. No. 1032, passed 12-11-1980)
CHAPTER 5: AUCTIONS OF GOLD, JEWELS AND THE LIKE
Section
   
11-5-1   Sellers of gold, silver, clocks, gems, furs and the like, not being
engaged in permanent business to comply with chapter
   
11-5-2   Exclusions from chapter
   
11-5-3   License; fee
   
11-5-4   Bond
   
11-5-5   Inventory
   
11-5-6   Sales to be on successive days; how long to continue
   
11-5-7   Sales prohibited at night
   
11-5-8   False advertisements or representations
   
11-5-9   False or fraudulent bids
   
11-5-10   Forfeiture of license for violation of chapter
SEC. 11-5-1 SELLERS OF GOLD, SILVER, CLOCKS, GEMS, FURS AND THE LIKE, NOT BEING
ENGAGED IN PERMANENT BUSINESS TO COMPLY WITH CHAPTER.
   Any person, whether principal or agent, who has not engaged in any permanent
business within the city for a continuous period of at least 12 months next
preceding, who sells, disposes of or offers for sale in the city at public
auction any gold, silver, plated ware, precious stones, semiprecious stones,
watches, clocks, woolen fabrics and furs, whether the same shall be his or her
own property or he or she sells the same as agent or as employee of another,
shall comply with each of the regulations and conditions of this chapter.
SEC. 11-5-2 EXCLUSIONS FROM CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall not apply to judicial sales or sales by executors and
administrators, receivers or assignees in insolvent and bankrupt estates, or
licensed pawnbrokers actually selling and disposing of goods duly and regularly
mortgaged, or pledges or sales by mortgagors duly authorized by the terms of
bona fide mortgages or pledges.
SEC. 11-5-3 LICENSE; FEE.
   Each person referred to in section
11-5-1 shall procure a license from the city, paying therefor such sum as may
be required by section
3-2-44 for each year or fraction thereof, as a license tax, that the person may
be engaged in conducting the auction sale.
SEC. 11-5-4 BOND.
   Each person referred to in section
11-5-1 shall file with the City Clerk a bond in the sum of $1,000, with good
and sufficient surety, for the purpose of guaranteeing compliance with the
terms of this chapter and the faithful performance of any contract made with
the customers and purchasers at the auction sale. The bond shall remain in full
force and effect for a term of 60 days after the close of the auction sale for
the purpose herein provided.
SEC. 11-5-5 INVENTORY.
   Each person referred to in section
11-5-1 shall file with the City Clerk a complete inventory of all the goods,
wares and merchandise to be offered at public auction, to be verified under
oath.
SEC. 11-5-6 SALES TO BE ON SUCCESSIVE DAYS; HOW LONG TO CONTINUE.
   Sale at public auction of the stock of any person, as referred to in section
11-5-1, whether principal or agent, shall not be held on other than successive
days, Sundays and legal holidays excepted, and shall continue not more than 30
days in all within the period of one fiscal year.
SEC. 11-5-7 SALES PROHIBITED AT NIGHT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to sell, dispose of or
offer to sell or to dispose of at public auction any of the goods, wares or
merchandise set forth in section
11-5-1 between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. the following morning.
SEC. 11-5-8 FALSE ADVERTISEMENTS OR REPRESENTATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person running or conducting a public sale
within the city of any goods, wares or merchandise described in section
11-5-1 to falsely advertise or represent the same to be bankrupt stock, or
falsely to advertise or represent the same as being imported, or falsely to
represent the same as to brand, trademark, quality, weight or texture.
SEC. 11-5-9 FALSE OR FRAUDULENT BIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person at any public auction of the goods,
wares and merchandise described in section
11-5-1 to act as what is commonly known as a “capper,” “booster” or “shiller,”
or offer to make any false bid or falsely pretend to buy any article offered at
such auction sale for the purpose of deceiving the persons attending the sale;
and it shall also be unlawful for any person conducting the auction sale to
receive knowingly or to permit to be made any false or “boosting” bids by the
“booster,” “bybidder,” “shiller” or other such person bidding for the purpose
of boosting the price of articles sold or offered for sale at the auction sale.
SEC. 11-5-10 FORFEITURE OF LICENSE FOR VIOLATION OF CHAPTER.
   Any person licensed to conduct any auction sale under this chapter,
convicted for the violation of any provision of this chapter, or whose agent,
employee or servant engaged in conducting the sale shall be convicted of
violating any provision of this chapter, shall forfeit the license to further
conduct the auction sale, as the court or the City Council may elect.
CHAPTER 6: POOLROOMS AND BOWLING ALLEYS
Section
   
11-6-1   License required
   
11-6-2   Playing when establishment is closed
   
11-6-3   Operation on ground floor; plate glass windows
   
11-6-4   Screens, curtains, partitions; prohibited
   
11-6-5   Applicability of chapter
SEC. 11-6-1 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, for profit, in the city any
pocket billiard room or bowling alley without first obtaining a license to do
so as provided in section
3-2-28.
SEC. 11-6-2 PLAYING WHEN ESTABLISHMENT IS CLOSED.
   No person operating a pocket billiard room or bowling alley in the city
shall allow the facilities to be used during the time that the establishment is
not open for business to the public.
SEC. 11-6-3 OPERATION ON GROUND FLOOR; PLATE GLASS WINDOWS.
   No pocket billiard or bowling alley shall be operated in the city by any
person except upon the ground floor of a building. Plate glass window shall be
in the part of the building facing the street, so that the public shall at all
times be able to see within the room. Specifically excluded from the
requirement of plate glass windows in the part of the building facing the
street of this section are establishments whose principal purpose or business
is the operation of any other lawful enterprise and the maintenance of a pool
table or tables or the maintenance of a bowling alley is incidental only to the
principal purpose of the business.
SEC. 11-6-4 SCREENS, CURTAINS, PARTITIONS; PROHIBITED.
   No person operating a pocket billiard room or bowling alley in the city
shall allow or permit any screens, curtains, blinds, partitions or other
obstructions to be placed between the entrance of the room where billiards or
pool is played and the back of the rear wall of the billiard room. A clear view
of the entire interior from the entrance to the rear of the room shall be
maintained at all times. No partitions forming rooms, stalls or other
enclosures where the public congregates shall be permitted. This section shall
not be construed to prohibit the maintenance of closets for storing purposes
exclusively, or toilets.
SEC. 11-6-5 APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER.
   All provisions of this chapter, except those specifically excluded in
section
11-6-3, shall apply to establishments whose principal purpose or business is
the operation of any other lawful enterprise and the maintenance of a pool
table or tables or the maintenance of a bowling alley is incidental only to the
principal purpose of the business.
CHAPTER 7: POLICE-INITIATED TOW SERVICE OPERATIONS
Section
   
11-7-1   Definitions
   
11-7-2   Police rotation list
   
11-7-3   Selection of tow services during police investigations
   
11-7-4   Permit required
   
11-7-5   Application for police rotation list permit
   
11-7-6   Insurance requirements
   
11-7-7   Investigation by Chief of Police
   
11-7-8   Standards for issuance of privilege permit
   
11-7-9   Duties of police rotation list tow services
   
11-7-10   Annual inspection
   
11-7-11   Exclusions
   
11-7-12   Suspension or revocation of permit
   
11-7-13   Renewal
   
11-7-14   Policies
   
11-7-15   Post-towing procedures
   
11-7-16   Indemnifications and hold harmless
Editor’s note:
   This chapter was rewritten in its entirety by Ord. No. 07-16, passed Feb. 8,
2007, with an effective date of 12:01 a.m. on March 1, 2007.
SEC. 11-7-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivatives shall have the meaning given herein.
Canceled call. Shall occur when an owner of a vehicle requests the on-scene law
enforcement officer to cancel a dispatched call either before the tow operator
arrives or prior to initiation of tow services. When such a call occurs, the
responding tow operator shall not have the canceled call counted as a rotation
call and will be returned to the tow operator’s position on the rotation list
that the tow operator would have held before the canceled call.
City. The City of Greenville, North Carolina.
Day towing operations. Shall include any tow service during the local hours of
8:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Fridays;
except city holidays.
Dispatched call.  A call made by the on-scene law enforcement officer at the
request of the owner of the vehicle to Greenville Police Department
Communications requesting a tow operator from the rotation list.
Extraordinary circumstances. As used in this chapter, the tow operator being
required to wait more than one-half hour before initiating tow operations or
when the tow operator must extract a vehicle from a ditch, right a flipped
vehicle (resting on its roof), remove a tree resting on a vehicle, recovering a
vehicle hit by a train or a jackknifed vehicle and trailer.
Hook-up. The application and first connection of a chain or a mechanical
connection from the tow service truck to the towed motor vehicle.
Night, weekend and holiday towing operations. Include any tow service at all
times other than day towing.
Person.  An individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
Police-initiated tow. A Greenville Police Officer or Greenville Police
Department Dispatch request for tow service by a business or tow owner on the
police rotation list.
Storage. When a vehicle has been towed under this chapter and is maintained in
a means provided by this chapter. The reason for the tow initiated by the
police shall be as a result of accident, violation of parking ordinances,
disabled or any other police initiated.
Tow service. A person engaged in the business of a wrecker or towing service,
granted a permit under this chapter, whereby motor vehicles are towed or
otherwise removed at the direction of officers of the city Police Department by
the use of a wrecker or motor vehicle designed for that purpose.
Tow service operator. The person operating a tow vehicle under this chapter.
Wrecked motor vehicle. A motor vehicle not capable of self-propulsion.
(Ord. No. 07-16, passed 2-8-2007)
SEC. 11-7-2 POLICE ROTATION LIST.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to establish a rotation list
of tow services desiring to provide towing services upon request of police
officers. The tow services who desire to be placed upon a rotation list shall
comply with the requirements of this chapter and with all other rules and
regulations the Chief of Police may issue regarding towing services requested
by personnel of the Police Department.
   (B)   The number of tow service operators on the police rotation list shall
be limited to 20. In the event that a tow service operator is removed
permanently from the police rotation list, whether voluntarily or
involuntarily, the vacancy shall be filled by drawing made by the Chief of
Police from those tow service operators who comply with the requirements of
this chapter and desire to be on the police rotation list. The selection
process shall continue until the vacancies are filled and the maximum number of
20 tow service operators is reached.
   (C)   Subject to the restrictions and qualifications set forth in these
regulations or procedures adopted by the Chief of Police and consistent with
this chapter, those tow operators that are on the rotation list on the
effective date of this chapter but do not conform to the separate business
requirements set forth in section
11-7-5(A)(8) shall be permitted to remain on the rotation list; but if any tow
operator is suspended or removed from the list voluntarily or involuntarily,
the tow operator as well as all new businesses that apply for inclusion of the
rotation list must comply with the requirements of this section and the
remainder of the provisions of this chapter. Further, no tow operator whether
conforming or nonconforming may refer, forward, cover or intercept any
rotational call as provided by this chapter.
(Ord. No. 07-16, passed 2-8-2007)
SEC. 11-7-3 SELECTION OF TOW SERVICES DURING POLICE INVESTIGATIONS.
   In all police-initiated towing of a vehicle:
   (A)   The operator of the vehicle, if present and not incapacitated, shall
have the right to select a tow service of his or her choice located within a
reasonable distance from the site of the tow to perform the towing service. The
reasonableness of the distance from the tow site shall be determined by the
police personnel present at the scene.
   (B)   If the operator of the vehicle to be towed is not present, or is
incapacitated, or has no preference as to any specific tow service, the police
personnel ordering the tow shall request that the towing service be provided by
the tow service then first on the appropriate rotation list maintained by the
police communications center.
   (C)   When emergency circumstances prevail, the police officer may request
towing services from the tow service nearest to the scene of the accident or
emergency. A police officer may also request towing services from any company
operating large cranes or other heavy equipment if necessary to remove traffic
obstacles involving large trucks or heavy equipment.
(Ord. No. 07-16, passed 2-8-2007)
SEC. 11-7-4 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No tow service shall engage in the business of towing vehicles at the
request of city police personnel without first obtaining a police rotation list
permit from the Chief of Police. Once issued, a permit under this chapter is
valid for one year and capable of being renewed.
(Ord. No. 07-16, passed 2-8-2007)
SEC. 11-7-5 APPLICATION FOR POLICE ROTATION LIST PERMIT.
   (A)   Application for a police rotation list permit issued hereunder shall
be notarized and shall be made upon blank forms prepared and made available by
the Police Department and shall contain:
      (1)   The name, home address, and proposed business address of each
owner, investor, part owner, or partner, limited partner, or joint venturer,
silent or active;
      (2)   The business address, business telephone number, telephone number
for night calls, location and telephone number for storage area;
      (3)   A description of the size and capacity of all tow trucks used by
the tow truck operator and shall contain a certification that at all times the
equipment will be in good condition and capable of towing any automobile or
truck from the streets and other public or private places in the city when
called on to do so;
      (4)   A description of the storage area for towed vehicles at, or in the
immediate vicinity of the applicant’s garage, and shall contain a certification
that the applicant shall have and shall maintain storage space and facilities
to protect from the elements such vehicles as would be damaged by exposure and
a sufficient amount of additional storage space to store other vehicles, all
within an enclosure having a wall or a solid fence of sufficient height or
design to conceal the towed vehicles from view from any street or public way,
and illuminated at night;
      (5)   The applicant shall provide a copy of the garage liability policy
or certificate of garage liability insurance covering the operation of the
licensee’s business equipment, or other vehicles for any bodily injury or
property damage. This policy shall be in the minimum of $100,000 for any one
person injured or killed and a minimum of $300,000 for more than one person
killed or injured in any accident and an additional $50,000 for property
damage;
      (6)   The applicant shall provide a copy of the garage keeper’s legal
liability policy or certificate of garage keeper’s legal liability insurance
for each storage premises covering fire, theft, windstorm, vandalism and
explosion in the amount of $100,000 ($20,000 per claim per vehicle);
      (7)   A copy of the registration card issued by the Department of Motor
Vehicles for each tow truck used by the tow truck operator, indicating that
each tow truck is registered as a wrecker as defined in G.S. Chapter 20;
      (8)   The applicant shall certify that the applicant, any partner, and
any interest holder is a separate business from any other tow service operator,
has its own business and privilege license, will not cover or forward calls of
another tow service operator or business and does not share, use, combine,
merge or mix the following and will not do so as long as on the police
rotational list:
         (a)   Building and office facilities and office equipment;
         (b)   Wreckers, dollies or other tow equipment;
         (c)   Tow personnel and office staff or personnel;
         (d)   Vehicle storage facilities or lot;
         (e)   Liability or owner insurance policies; and
         (f)   All assets, accountings, invoices, income and expenses are not a
part of any other business, partnership, joint venture, or other business
arrangement.
      (9)   The application shall be signed by each owner, part owner or
partner, silent or active.
   (B)   Subject to the restrictions and qualifications set forth in these
regulations or procedures adopted by the Chief of Police, nonconforming tow
service operators that do not meet the requirements of this chapter but were on
the wrecker rotation list on the effective date of these regulations may
continue to participate on the wrecker rotational list for a period of 60 days
from the effective date of these regulations. At the end of the 60 days, the
nonconforming tow service operators shall be inspected for compliance with the
requirements of these regulations and procedures. Those tow service operators
who remain noncompliant shall be removed from the wrecker rotational list.
(Ord. No. 07-16, passed 2-8-2007)
SEC. 11-7-6 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   Upon approval of a police rotation list permit, no tow service shall be
added to the police rotation list until the permit holder has deposited with
the Chief of Police or designee proof of the following liability coverage:
   (A)   Garage liability policy. A garage liability policy covering the
operation of the licensee’s business equipment, or other vehicles for any
bodily injury or property damage. This policy shall be in the minimum of
$100,000 for any one person injured or killed and a minimum of $300,000 for
more than one person killed or injured in any accident and an additional
$50,000 for property damage.
   (B)   Garage keeper’s policy. A garage keeper’s legal liability policy for
each storage premises covering fire, theft, windstorm, vandalism and explosion
in the amount of $100,000 ($20,000 per claim per vehicle).
   (C)   Notice of change. Each policy required under this section must contain
an endorsement by carriers providing ten days’ notice to both the city and the
insured in the event of any change in coverage under the policy.
(Ord. No. 07-16, passed 2-8-2007)
SEC. 11-7-7 INVESTIGATION BY CHIEF OF POLICE.
   Within five business days after receipt of each application, the Chief of
Police or designee shall cause an investigation to be made of the applicant and
of the applicant’s proposed operation. This investigation shall be made for the
purpose of verifying the information in the application and to assure
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 07-16, passed 2-8-2007)
SEC. 11-7-8 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PRIVILEGE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or designee shall add a tow service to the police
rotation list when it is determined:
   (A)   That public convenience and necessity require the applicant tow
service be added to the police rotation list;
   (B)   The tow service business location and its storage facility are located
within the city limits;
   (C)   Insurance policies as required by the chapter have been procured;
   (D)   All applicants, operators, owners, investors, partners, limited
partners and joint venturers have never been convicted, pleaded no contest or
received a prayer for judgment for any felony, assault, theft, or any other
crime involving the taking, use, tampering with, or conversion of a motor
vehicle;
   (E)   The tow service will use only tow trucks equipped with revolving or
flashing amber or yellow light(s) which shall be operating during any tow;
   (F)   The tow service will provide 24 hours per day, seven days per week,
on-call service;
   (G)   The tow service will arrive at the location of the vehicle to be towed
within 30 minutes after receiving a request for day towing services and within
a reasonable time after receiving a request for night, weekend and holiday
towing from the Police Department;
   (H)   The tow service will provide and use a storage area for towed vehicles
that is enclosed by a chain link fence or equivalently secure fence or
enclosure which shall be illuminated at night and shall have sufficient storage
space and facilities to protect from the elements such vehicles as would be
damaged by exposure and a sufficient amount of additional storage space to
store other vehicles, all within an enclosure having a wall or a solid fence of
sufficient height or design to conceal the towed vehicles from view from any
street or public way, and illuminated at night;
   (I)   The tow service will maintain towing equipment which is adequate to
perform the towing service in a reasonably workmanlike manner and is properly
equipped to tow vehicles in such a manner as to minimize any damage to towed
vehicles. All towing equipment shall contain the name and phone number of the
tow operator placed on the sides of the tow vehicle in letters no less than
three inches in height. At all times and not just for inspection purposes, tow
services shall have and maintain in good working order the equipment, tools and
supplies required and set out in section
11-7-10.
   (J)   The requirements of this chapter and all other governing laws and
ordinances have been met.
(Ord. No. 07-16, passed 2-8-2007)
SEC. 11-7-9 DUTIES OF POLICE ROTATION LIST TOW SERVICES.
   Tow services shall be added to the police rotation list subject to the
following conditions:
   (A)   Compliance with rate schedule. In addition to an administrative tow
fee payable to the City of Greenville and contained in the city’s Manual of
Fees, tow services shall charge for their services only those fees or costs as
are established herein:
      (1)   The maximum rate for the towing and storage for a vehicle is as
follows:
         (a)   Collision tows:
            1.   For day, night, weekend and holiday towing a vehicle with a
gross weight up to and including 9,000 pounds, the maximum charge is $280,
including Winching -$110; overturned vehicle - $125; and mileage outside the
city limits $3.85 per mile.
            2.   Rates for vehicles in excess of 9,001 pounds shall be at the
tow service established rates which have been filed with the Chief of Police or
designee.
         (b)   Non-collision tows:
            1.   For day, night, weekend and holiday towing a vehicle with a
gross weight up to and including 9,000 pounds, the maximum charge is $185.
            2.   Rates for vehicles in excess of 9,001 pounds shall be at the
tow service established rates which have been filed with the Chief of Police or
designee.
      (2)   The maximum rate for storage until the owner, operator or other
person authorized to take possession of the towed vehicle is as follows:
         (a)   Less than 24 hours: no charge; and
         (b)   More than 24 hours: $40 per day or any portion of a day
thereafter specifically excluding the first 24 hours.
      (3)   The maximum rates established in subsection (A) of this section
shall be a flat fee which shall be inclusive of all towing charges. A towing
charge includes any fees for:
         (a)   Special equipment such as but not limited to a double hook-up,
vehicle entry when locked, dropping transmission linkage, axle or drive shaft
removal, skates, trailer or flatbed, lift, slimjims, go jacks, removing
bumpers, airing up brakes, and mileage;
         (b)   Time spent on the scene of the tow, including clean up and
sweeping if an accident is involved;
         (c)   Gate fees, and fees for returning to the location where the
vehicle is stored in order to release; and
         (d)   No fee, other than the above enumerated fees for towing and
storage or other fees authorized by this chapter shall be assessed as a
condition for release of a vehicle to the vehicle owner or authorized driver.
      (4)   Dollies. A maximum fee of $85 may be charged.
      (5)   Wait time. If the tow operator is required to wait in excess of
one-half hour before the operator can initiate tow operations, a wait fee may
be charged at the rate of $65 per one-half hour after the first one-half hour,
which may not be charged, on scene before tow operations are initiated. Wait
time does not include travel to and from the location of the tow. No wait fee
may be charged unless on-scene law enforcement verify the wait by initials and
badge number.
      (6)   An additional $50 will be charged for release of a vehicle by a tow
operator to the owner, operator or other authorized person after 5:00 p.m. and
before 8:00 a.m. as defined by day towing operations in this chapter.
Collecting and removal of personal property of the owner, operator or
authorized person other than during day towing operations as defined in this
chapter will incur a charge of $50, if the collection and removal occurs at a
separate time than release of the vehicle.
      (7)   Rates in this section shall be regularly reviewed for periodic
adjustments and increases based on the North Carolina State Highway Patrol’
   (B)   Interception of police calls. No tow service shall arrive at the scene
of a police investigation as a result of monitored or intercepted police calls
by radio, or other device, for the purposes of soliciting towing or repair
services.
   (C)   Required records. Any tow service operating under this chapter must
have the following records of any motor vehicle towed: the make and model of
the motor vehicle; the license number of the motor vehicle; and the date of the
towing service. These records shall be maintained for a period of two years
from the date of towing by the tow service and shall be made available for
inspection and review at any time by the Chief of Police or designee.
   (D)   Storage of towed vehicles. All vehicles towed as a result of a police
initiated request shall be stored as follows:
      (1)   The tow service will provide and use a storage area for towed
vehicles that is enclosed by a chain link fence or equivalently secure fence or
enclosure which shall be illuminated at night and shall have sufficient storage
space and facilities to protect from the elements such vehicles as would be
damaged by exposure and a sufficient amount of additional storage space to
store other vehicles, all within an enclosure having a wall or a solid fence of
sufficient height or design to conceal the towed vehicles from view from any
street or public way, and illuminated at night.
      (2)   Any tow operator who stores towed vehicles at either the normal
place of business or at an off-site storage facility shall provide for the
following in addition to all other requirements of this chapter:
         (a)   The stored vehicle must be capable of being released from the
storage facility 24 hours per day, seven days per week.
         (b)   Payment for the towing, storage and administrative fees must be
capable of being made at the off-site storage facility so as to avoid the
vehicle owner having to respond to two separate locations to secure the release
of his or her vehicle.
         (c)   If the vehicle owner responds to the tow operator’s normal place
of business to secure release of his or her vehicle, the tow operator shall
provide transportation of the vehicle owner to the off-site storage facility in
a timely manner.
      (3)   Any violation of this chapter committed by the personnel of the
storage facility at the normal place of business or at the off-site storage
facility shall be attributed to the tow operator for purposes of suspension or
revocation from the tow operators rotation list.
      (4)   No off-site storage facility shall be utilized under this section
until proof has been deposited with the Chief of Police or designee that the
facility is insured in accordance with the requirements as set forth in section
11-7-6.
   (E)   Availability. The tow service shall post a phone number at the place
of business setting forth the manner in which to redeem any towed vehicle. The
phone numbers shall be printed not less than three inches high and posted in a
place clearly visible outside the business. The sign shall explain in what
manner a stored vehicle can be redeemed. The tow service shall have an employee
available by telephone to redeem stored vehicles at all times when the tow
service is not open for business. Each tow service may list the telephone
number of the police dispatcher.
   (F)   Damage. The person operating any such tow service shall make every
reasonable effort to minimize damage to towed and stored motor vehicles. Where
applicable, such reasonable effort shall include but is not limited to the use
of a dolly or carriage for towing, the disconnection of the drive shaft,
release of brakes, towing at a reasonable speed, and the securing of the motor
vehicle from damage by the elements.
   (G)   Securing stored vehicles. No towed vehicle may be dismantled, have
parts removed, or tires deflated, except as necessary for towing the motor
vehicle or securing it from damage by the elements.
   (H)   Itemized statement. The tow service bill for towing and storage of any
motor vehicle shall be itemized to reflect services performed, labor or other
materials required, and any storage or other charges as follows:
      (1)   Bills/receipts numbered consecutively;
      (2)   The name, address, and phone number of the wrecker/tow service;
      (3)   The itemized services performed. This itemization should include a
total for all charges;
      (4)   The administrative tow fee and any applicable state taxes. These
should be itemized as well;
      (5)   The date, time and location of the tow; and
      (6)   The on-scene officer must sign and record the officer’s badge
number on the towing ticket of the tow operator which clearly states the
services provided and the charge for the service provided by the tow operator.
No additional charges or fees may be made by the tow operator once signed by
the officer, except that fees for storage and after hours release where
applicable and appropriate may be charged.
   (I)   Release authorization receipt. No towed vehicle may be released by the
tow service until the owner or operator presents the tow service with a release
authorization receipt from the Police Department.
   (J)   Posting bond or paying fees. Any person who has had his or her car
towed may take possession of it by posting a bond or paying the fees due. The
fees will include an administrative fee for towing which will be paid to the
Greenville Police Department. The amount of this administrative fee shall be
set out in the Manual of Fees for the City of Greenville.
   (K)   Cleanup. In the event of a motor vehicle accident, the tow service
operator shall remove the wreck debris from the road and/or right-of-way and
properly dispose of it.
   (L)   Administrative tow fee. An administrative tow fee in the amount of $30
payable to the City of Greenville will be charged on all collision and non-
collision tows.
   (M)   Payment of fees and invoices; late fees. The tow service owner or
operator is responsible for the collection of all fees and costs including the
administrative fee. The tow service owner or operator shall remit to the City
of Greenville the administrative fee and a copy of the itemized statement.
Failure to remit may subject the tow service operator or owner to suspension or
revocation of tow service permit. Administrative fees not remitted to the city
within 30 days of collection by the tow service owner or operator shall be
subject to the assessment of interest at the legal rate and payment of a
penalty to the city in the amount of $10 per fee to be remitted for each ten
working days after the collection and when remittance was due by the tow
service owner or operator.
(Ord. No. 07-16, passed 2-8-2007; Ord. No. 22-058, § 1, passed 6-27-2022)
SEC. 11-7-10 ANNUAL INSPECTION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police or designee to inspect on
an annual basis all of the tow services on the police rotation list. The
inspection shall include the operation’s records, wrecker vehicles, storage
facilities, insurance policies, and any other areas the Chief of Police or his
or her agent may deem appropriate to the operation of the service on the police
rotation list. There will be an administrative fee of $35 for this inspection
to be paid on an annual basis. The Chief of Police or agent shall issue an
inspection certification upon successful completion of the annual inspection.
Any tow service operator that fails to cooperate with the Chief of Police or
his or her agent during the inspection, that fails to provide or produce the
items and documents for inspection or that fails the requirements of this
chapter shall be suspended from the police rotation list until the tow service
owner complies and satisfies the requirements of this subsection (A).
   (B)   Each wrecker, carrier or rollback at all times and not just during the
annual inspection shall maintain in good working order all equipment and
accessories as prescribed by state law and any additional equipment and
accessories as identified by the Chief of Police or designee and maintained for
review by tow service operators on the rotation list.
   (C)   Each wrecker, carrier or rollback must be equipped with the following
at all times and not just during the annual inspection and must be maintained
in good working order:
      (1)   Ax;
      (2)   Large broom;
      (3)   Fire extinguisher. Five-pound multi-purpose dry chemical;
      (4)   Shovel;
      (5)   Flambeaus, four each. Flares, eight or traffic cones, 28 inches in
height;
      (6)   Two snatch blocks;
      (7)   Two scotch blocks;
      (8)   Dollies (except rollback wreckers);
      (9)   A five-gallon waterproof, covered and full container of “Speedi-
dry” or similar type of absorbent material;
      (10)   Cable: one spool having at least 100 feet and measuring three-
eighths inch in diameter;
      (11)   Bolt cutters; and
      (12)   Safety vest.
   (D)   The equipment identified in subsections (B) and (C) must be in good
working order and available on each wrecker, carrier or rollback on any call.
Additionally, the matters identified in subsections (B) and (C) will be
inspected during the annual inspection, and failure to have or have in good
working order will subject the tow operator or business to a failure to pass
the annual inspection.
(Ord. No. 07-16, passed 2-8-2007)
SEC. 11-7-11 EXCLUSIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to wrecker services which are not listed on the
police rotation list.
(Ord. No. 07-16, passed 2-8-2007)
SEC. 11-7-12 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Grounds for suspension.  The following shall be grounds for suspension
or revocation of a police rotation list permit issued under this article:
      (1)   The permit was secured by fraud or by the concealment of a material
fact by the permit holder and that fact, if known, would have caused a refusal
to issue a permit;
      (2)   The permit holder has violated any of the requirements of the
regulations established by the wrecker inspector under this article;
      (3)   Past services rendered by any permit holder are shown to be
detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare, including overcharging of
wrecker fees or false charging of items done by the wrecker business;
      (4)   The permit holder paid in the form of a gratuity any third person
for information as to the location of the accident;
      (5)   The permit holder has violated the fee schedule by overcharge or
false charges;
      (6)   Failure to operate the wreckers specified in such a manner as to
serve the public adequately and efficiently;
      (7)   Failure to maintain wrecker and vehicle in good condition;
      (8)   Failure to pay the city privilege license fee imposed upon
wreckers;
      (9)   Failure to report accidents while towing city rotation call
vehicles or to furnish other records and reports as may be required by this
chapter and/or the wrecker inspector;
      (10)   The permit holder illegally solicited tow or repair services at a
police investigation;
      (11)   The permit holder paid any third person for information as to the
location of any vehicle in compensation for calling the permit holder to tow
the vehicle;
      (12)   The permit holder has violated any of the requirements of this
chapter or any of the rules and regulations as established by the Revenue
Collector or the City Council;
      (13)   The permit holder refused an annual inspection by the Police
Department;
      (14)   The permit holder failed to meet all requirements in the annual
inspection by the Police Department; and/or
      (15)   The permit holder fails to respond to three consecutive rotation
calls.
   (B)   Response to calls. Wreckers on the rotation list are expected to
respond to calls. If the permit holder does not answer the call or respond
within the times specified in the chapter, the next business or operator on the
list will be called. The Police Department shall send notice in writing to the
permit holder after the second call with no response to either the call or call
for service. If the towing business or operator does not respond to three
consecutive rotation calls without prior notification to the police, the Chief
of Police is authorized to suspend or recommend revocation of the holder’s
permit.
   (C)   Revocation or suspension. If the Chief of Police determines that any
of the above violations have occurred, the Chief of Police shall have the
authority to revoke or suspend a permit as follows:
      (1)   For violation of subsection (A)(1) of this section, the Chief of
Police shall recommend to the City Manager the license shall be revoked;
      (2)   For a first-time violation of subsections (A)(2) through (14) of
this section, suspension up to 30 days;
      (3)   For a second violation of subsections (A)(2) through (14) of this
section, within a period of two years from the date of the first suspension,
suspension up to 90 days;
      (4)   For a third violation of subsections (A)(2) through (14) of this
section, within a period of two years from the date of the first violation,
revocation may be recommended to the City Manager; and
      (5)   For a violation of (A)(15) of this section, the permit holder will
be removed from the rotation list for a period of 180 days for a first
violation and may recommend to the City Manager that the permit be revoked for
a second violation of subsection (A)(15) within a period of two years from the
date of the first violation.
   (D)   Final decision.  If the Chief of Police recommends a permit be
revoked, the City Manager shall be the final decision authority as to whether
the permit shall be revoked. If the facts presented to the City Manager by the
tow service operator warrant mitigation of the recommended action, the City
Manager may mitigate the revocation to a suspension of not more than 180
calendar days from the date of the City Manager’s decision. A tow service
operator may appeal to the City Manager any suspension imposed by the Chief of
Police. If appealed, the City Manager is the final decision authority. As the
final decision authority, the City Manager may sustain the suspension, mitigate
it or overturn the decision by the Chief of Police after reviewing the matters
presented by the Police Department and the tow service operator. Any appeal
must be in writing, stating the reasons for the appeal, and must be submitted
to the City Manager within five business days of the date of the decision to
suspend issued by the Chief of Police.
   (E)   New permit after revocation. Any permit holder who has his or her
permit revoked shall be eligible to apply for a new permit one year from the
date of the revocation.
   (F)   Appeals from suspension or revocation of a permit. A permit holder
removed or recommended for removal from the tow rotation list for violations of
subsections (A)(1) through (15) of this section may appeal the removal action
to the City Manager. If appealed, the City Manager is the final decision
authority. As the final decision authority, the City Manager may sustain the
suspension, mitigate it or overturn the decision by the Chief of Police after
reviewing the matters presented by the Police Department and the tow service
operator. Any appeal must be in writing, stating the reasons for the appeal,
and must be submitted to the City Manager within five business days of the date
of the decision to suspend or recommend removal is issued by the Chief of
Police. Pending any appeal and the final decision, the permit holder will not
be eligible to receive any calls for police initiated tows.
(Ord. No. 07-16, passed 2-8-2007)
SEC. 11-7-13 RENEWAL.
   This police rotation list privilege shall be valid for one year from the
date of acceptance. Each application for renewal shall contain adequate
assurances that the applicant continues to comply with all standards, rules and
regulations prescribed under this chapter. The renewals shall be on a form
designated by the Revenue Collector and shall contain the names of any new
owners, part owners or partners, and the names of any new employees.
(Ord. No. 07-16, passed 2-8-2007)
SEC. 11-7-14 POLICIES.
   The Chief of Police shall reserve the right to formulate policies that will
ensure accurate enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 07-16, passed 2-8-2007)
SEC. 11-7-15 POST-TOWING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Whenever a vehicle with a valid registration plate or registration is
towed, the law enforcement officer shall immediately notify the last known
registered owner of the vehicle as provided in G.S. 29-219.11.
    (B)   Any person aggrieved by the towing may request a hearing before any
magistrate in Pitt County to contest the towing; either party may appeal the
decision of the magistrate to district court.
   (C)   Any unclaimed vehicle may be sold under the procedures provided in
G.S. Chapter 44A, as provided by G.S. 160A-303.
   (D)   When a court finds no probable cause existed for a tow, the city will
pay the tower.
(Ord. No. 07-16, passed 2-8-2007)
SEC. 11-7-16 INDEMNIFICATION AND HOLD HARMLESS.
   Any permit holder shall indemnify, save and hold harmless the city, its
officers, agents and employees, from any and all claims, actions, defenses,
suits and proceedings arising out of any negligent act on the part of a
licensee, employee or part-time employee of the licensee, which negligent act
is the proximate cause of damage to any vehicle stored in a lot authorized
under the terms of this article.
(Ord. No. 07-16, passed 2-8-2007)
CHAPTER 8: HORSE-DRAWN VEHICLES
Section
   
11-8-1   Definitions
   
11-8-2   Transportation by horse-drawn vehicles for purposes of conveying
passengers
   
11-8-3   Stands, pickup and discharge of passengers
   
11-8-4   Vehicles; maintenance
   
11-8-5   Lighting
   
11-8-6   Vehicle equipment
   
11-8-7   Diapering apparatus
   
11-8-8   Horse-drawn vehicle license
   
11-8-9   Insurance
   
11-8-10   Horse and other animals
   
11-8-11   Length of service per day for horses, restrictions and rest breaks
   
11-8-12   Penalty
SEC. 11-8-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Horse-drawn vehicle. A vehicle that is pulled by carriage horses or other draft
animals and is used for the purpose of conveying passengers for hire or for
advertising or promotion purposes.
(1971 Code, § 11-13-1)
SEC. 11-8-2 TRANSPORTATION BY HORSE-DRAWN VEHICLES FOR PURPOSES OF CONVEYING
PASSENGERS.
   (A)   Restricted. No person shall operate or cause to be operated for hire
any vehicle, of whatever nature, drawn by animals for the purpose of conveying
passengers or any other purpose within the limits of the city, except vehicles
complying with the terms of this chapter.
   (B)   Route limitations. Before a horse-drawn vehicle is operated on any
street within the city, the route must first be approved by the City Engineer
of the city.
   (C)   Drivers. All drivers of horse-drawn vehicles shall meet the following
minimum qualifications:
      (1)   Have a current motor vehicle operator’s license for the State of
North Carolina;
      (2)   Be at least 21 years of age;
      (3)   Have good eyesight and not be subject to any infirmity of body or
mind which might render him or her unfit for the safe operation of the vehicle;
      (4)   Not be addicted to drugs or intoxicating liquors; and
      (5)   Be able to operate a horse-drawn vehicle in a safe, prudent and
humane manner.
   (D)   Driver responsibilities. Each driver of a horse-drawn vehicle shall,
while on duty, do the following:
      (1)   Conduct himself or herself in a reasonable and prudent manner;
      (2)   Not consume alcoholic beverages or drugs while operating a horse-
drawn vehicle and not be under the influence of alcoholic beverages or drugs in
any amount while operating the horse-drawn vehicle;
      (3)   Not solicit passengers in a loud or annoying tone of voice and not
obstruct the movement of any person or follow any person for the purpose of
soliciting patrons;
      (4)   Not permit any unauthorized person to operate any horse-drawn
vehicle under the driver’s control;
      (5)   Not permit persons to ride on the back of any horse under his or
her control;
      (6)   Empty diapers of all excrement when half full and at least hourly,
whichever occurs first. The disposal is to be made in a manner and at a site
approved by the Animal Control Supervisor;
      (7)   Keep all routes and vehicle stands clean and free of animal
excrement;
      (8)   Travel at a walk or at a pace not faster than a slow trot, except
when traveling through intersections;
      (9)   Not leave any horse-drawn vehicle unattended at any time;
      (10)   Inspect the vehicle and its equipment at least once daily to
determine that it is mechanically fit and in good working order;
      (11)   Keep the interior of the vehicle clean at all times;
      (12)   Report all accidents to the owner of the horse-drawn vehicle and
to the Police Department immediately;
      (13)   Provide promptly a written receipt upon payment of fare at the
request of the passenger;
      (14)   Search thoroughly the interior of the vehicle after termination of
each trip for any article left or lost in the vehicle. Any such article which
remains unclaimed shall be turned in to the Police Department within 24 hours;
      (15)   Be responsible for the proper and humane care and treatment of the
horses under his or her direct supervision and control; and
      (16)   Display company name, phone number, rates and passenger capacity
in plain view and ensure that the passenger(s) are aware of the rate before any
trip begins.
(1971 Code, § 11-13-2)
SEC. 11-8-3 STANDS, PICKUP AND DISCHARGE OF PASSENGERS.
   (A)   Horse-drawn vehicles may pick up and discharge passengers only at
specified locations as approved by the City Engineer.
   (B)   No horse-drawn vehicle operator, in the conduct of any tour, shall
stop or stand for any purpose, but shall remain in and be part of the traffic
flow; provided, however, that horse-drawn vehicles shall safely pull
temporarily to the side so as to prevent unnecessary delays to following
traffic and provided further, that horse-drawn vehicles are permitted to pull
to the side of streets out of the traffic flow to accommodate the needs of the
horse.
   (C)   The holder of a horse-drawn vehicle license shall be responsible for
keeping the routes and vehicle stands clean and free of animal excrement.
Disposal of manure shall be the responsibility of the license holder or his or
her designee.
   (D)   The holder of a horse-drawn vehicle license shall be responsible for
washing the street to remove urine and shall be responsible for application of
such chemical as required to make the area around the vehicle stand clean and
free of urine, and so as to make the area sanitary at all times.
   (E)   The holder of a horse-drawn vehicle license shall be responsible for
providing watering for horses.
(1971 Code, § 11-13-3)
SEC. 11-8-4 VEHICLES; MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Any vehicle used in the business of horse-drawn vehicles shall be kept
in a safe and sanitary condition at all times. The Animal Control Supervisor
shall have the right to inspect as often as may be necessary for the purpose of
ascertaining and causing to be corrected any unsafe or unsanitary condition or
any violations of this chapter.
   (B)   The Animal Control Supervisor shall have the right to order removed
from service any horse-drawn vehicle which is determined to be unsafe until the
unsafe condition has been remedied.
   (C)   Every horse, pulling a horse-drawn vehicle, must wear blinders during
the time the horse-drawn vehicle is in operation.
   (D)   The harness attached to a horse-drawn vehicle shall be such so that
the horse cannot break away from its harness or vehicle. The holder of a horse-
drawn vehicle license shall insure that all vehicles shall have the suspension,
pivoting axle, shaves, and tongue and harness trees secured to the vehicle
properly with safety measures taken to ensure that any key parts will not
accidentally loosen.
(1971 Code, § 11-13-4)
SEC. 11-8-5 LIGHTING.
   Each horse-drawn vehicle to be used after sunset or before sunrise shall be
equipped as provided in this section. Each vehicle shall be equipped with at
least one lighted lamp or lantern exhibiting a white light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the front of the horse-drawn vehicle and with a lamp or
lantern exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear
of the horse-drawn vehicle. Each vehicle shall have affixed to the rear of the
vehicle at least two red reflectors or similar warning devices, one on each
corner, and on the front of the vehicle, one amber reflector or similar warning
device on the left-hand front of the vehicle.
(1971 Code, § 11-13-5)
SEC. 11-8-6 VEHICLE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Each horse-drawn vehicle shall be equipped with a reflective device as
follows:
      (1)   An equilateral triangle in shape at least 16 inches wide at the
base and at least 14 inches in height, with a bright red border, at least one
and three-quarter inches wide of highly reflective beaded material and a center
triangle, at least 12-1/4 inches on each side of yellow-orange fluorescent
material;
      (2)   The device shall be mounted on the rear of the horse-drawn vehicle,
not less than three feet nor more than five feet above the ground, measuring to
the lowest portion of the device and as near the center of the vehicle as
practicable.
   (B)   Each horse-drawn vehicle shall be equipped with suitable and efficient
manually operated brakes for the vehicle.
(1971 Code, § 11-13-6)
SEC. 11-8-7 DIAPERING APPARATUS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity to
operate any horse-drawn vehicle service on the city streets, unless the horse
is equipped with a diapering apparatus that prevents the droppings of the horse
from being deposited or otherwise left on city streets. It shall be the
responsibility of the person, firm, corporation or other entity utilizing the
horse for the purpose of pulling a horse-drawn vehicle to see that the
diapering apparatus is maintained in working order.
(1971 Code, § 11-13-7)
SEC. 11-8-8 HORSE-DRAWN VEHICLE LICENSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of any horse-drawn vehicle to
operate or to permit the same to be operated upon the public streets of the
city without first having obtained, and having then in force, a horse-drawn
vehicle license as provided by this section. Only one horse-drawn vehicle
license shall be required for each owner regardless of the number of vehicles
operated.
   (B)   Every person who desires a horse-drawn vehicle license shall pay a
filing fee of $50 to the City Clerk and make a written application to the City
Clerk showing ability to comply with the terms of this chapter. The application
shall be referred to the City Engineer, Chief of Police and Animal Control
Supervisor for study. The City Engineer shall return the application with
recommendations within 15 calendar days of receiving it. If it appears that the
applicant is capable of complying with the provisions of this chapter the
license shall be issued. Licenses shall be renewed annually.
(1971 Code, § 11-13-8)
SEC. 11-8-9 INSURANCE.
   The applicant shall furnish to the City Clerk, prior to the issuance of a
horse-drawn vehicle license, a certificate of insurance insuring the city, the
applicant, each horse-drawn vehicle and each horse to be used in that business
by the licensee, against public liability in the minimum limits of $100,000 for
personal injury or death to any one person for any one accident, and $300,000
for personal injury or death to two or more persons in any one accident, which
insurance policy and certificate shall provide that the city shall be given at
least 30 days’ prior written notice of cancellation. The certificate shall be
provided by a liability insurance company qualified to do business within the
State of North Carolina, and by an agent licensed within the State of North
Carolina. The policy shall not be canceled or suspended either by the insured
or the insurer unless at least 30 days’ notice, in writing, of the intention to
cancel or suspend the policy has been forwarded to the City Clerk, and upon the
suspension or cancellation of insurance, the horse-drawn vehicle license of the
licensee shall be suspended until such time as an acceptable certificate of
insurance shall be on file with the City Clerk.
(1971 Code, § 11-13-9)
SEC. 11-8-10 HORSE AND OTHER ANIMALS.
   No person shall treat a horse or other animal used in a horse-drawn vehicle
business in an inhumane manner. No holder of a horse-drawn vehicle license
shall work an animal in poor health, lame, ill or one that has sores, or work a
horse under the age of three years or over the age of 20 years.
(1971 Code, § 11-13-10)
SEC. 11-8-11 LENGTH OF SERVICE PER DAY FOR HORSES, RESTRICTIONS AND REST
BREAKS.
   (A)   No horse shall be placed into service for a horse-drawn vehicle for
more than 12 hours per day. A rest break of at least ten minutes shall be given
to each horse after one 50-minute work period. After two consecutive 50-minute
work periods, a 30-minute rest period shall be given.
   (B)   Horses shall not be operated when the heat index exceeds 124º
Fahrenheit, as reported by the National Weather Service.
   (C)   No horse-drawn vehicle shall be operated when the wind chill index, as
reported by the National Weather Service is below 0º Fahrenheit. When the wind
chill index is below 20º Fahrenheit, the horse must be blanketed during rest
periods.
   (D)   Any horse used on concrete, asphalt or similar type street surfaces
shall be shod with metal shoes. A good quality, shock-absorbing material will
be used between the horse’s hooves and the shoes at the discretion of a
certified farrier.
   (E)   The shoes of the horse shall be refitted, as needed. Any shoe lost
during the work period by a horse then in service, must be replaced before the
horse resumes service.
   (F)   Horses’ hooves shall be trimmed, as needed, at the scheduled times for
shoe refitting. Hooves are to be examined by a certified farrier and a report
of the examination in writing shall be submitted to the Animal Control
Supervisor every six months that the horse is in service.
   (G)   No driver shall use more than a light touch of the whip upon any
animal, and no driver or other person may forcefully strike an animal, or make
movements or noise intended to frighten the animal.
   (H)   The Animal Control Supervisor shall have the right to periodically
inspect the operations of the business to ensure the humane treatment of the
horses, and other aspects of the operation that will affect the health and
safety of the animals being used or the riding public.
(1971 Code, § 11-13-11)
SEC. 11-8-12 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall subject the
offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $50 for each offense, and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Notwithstanding subsection (A) above, provisions of this chapter may
be enforced through equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(1971 Code, § 11-13-12) (Ord. No. 97-138, § 1, passed 12-11-1997)
CHAPTER 9: LITTER CONTROL IN PARKING LOTS
Section
   
11-9-1   Litter and debris generated by certain businesses; generally
   
11-9-2   Presumption
   
11-9-3   Responsibility of business
   
11-9-4   Amount of fee
   
11-9-5   Charge for city service
Editor’s note:
   Ord. No. 1033, adopted Dec. 11, 1980, codified herein as Chapter 9 was
enacted as new §
6-3-12 to the City Code. The provisions were moved to this location at the
discretion of the editor.
SEC. 11-9-1 LITTER AND DEBRIS GENERATED BY CERTAIN BUSINESSES; GENERALLY.
   Owners and operators of nightclubs, bars and taverns are responsible for the
litter and debris generated by their establishments within their parking lots,
and on the sidewalks and public rights-of-way adjacent to their businesses.
(Ord. No. 1033, passed 12-11-1980)
SEC. 11-9-2 PRESUMPTION.
   Any litter or debris found within any of the above described areas will be
presumed to have been generated by the above described business establishment
adjacent to or served by the area unless the business establishment adjacent to
or serviced by the area proves otherwise. If a right-of-way or sidewalk serves
more than one such business establishment, all the businesses so served shall
be presumed to have generated any litter or debris found thereon, unless proven
otherwise.
(Ord. No. 1033, passed 12-11-1980)
SEC. 11-9-3 RESPONSIBILITY OF BUSINESS.
   Owners or operators of the businesses described above will keep their
parking lots, sidewalks and public rights-of-way adjacent to their businesses
free from litter and debris generated from their business establishments.
(Ord. No. 1033, passed 12-11-1980)
SEC. 11-9-4 AMOUNT OF FEE.
   The amount charged by the city for collecting litter or debris under this
section can be made on a daily, weekly, monthly or quantity basis and will be
listed in the Manual of Fees.
(Ord. No. 1033, passed 12-11-1980)
SEC. 11-9-5 CHARGE FOR CITY SERVICE.
   If litter or debris is found in the areas described above, the city may
collect the litter and debris and charge the collection expense to the business
or businesses presumed to have generated it. If more than one business may be
presumed to have generated the litter or debris, the cost of collecting it may
be divided equally among them.
(Ord. No. 1033, passed 12-11-1980)
CHAPTER 10: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
Article A. Exposure of the Female Breasts
   
11-10-1   Exposure of the female breasts defined
   
11-10-2   Permitting a violation prohibited
   
11-10-3   Penalty for violation
Article B. Massage Parlors
   
11-10-11   Purpose and applicability of article
   
11-10-12   Definitions
   
11-10-13   Application for license
   
11-10-14   Qualifications of applicant for license
   
11-10-15   Issuance of license
   
11-10-16   Authority to employ, train personnel
   
11-10-17   Names of employees to be filed with Chief of Police
   
11-10-18   Records to be kept by licensee
   
11-10-19   Enforcement and revocation of license
   
11-10-20   Hours of operation
   
11-10-21   Treatment of persons of opposite sex restricted
   
11-10-22   Patronage of massage parlors by minors
   
11-10-23   Massages by unlicensed persons
   
11-10-24   Applicability
   
11-10-25   Penalty for violation
ARTICLE A. EXPOSURE OF THE FEMALE BREASTS
SEC. 11-10-1 EXPOSURE OF THE FEMALE BREASTS DEFINED.
   The term “expose her breast or breasts” as used herein is defined as the
revealing of the female breast or breasts with less than a fully opaque
covering on any portion or portions thereof below the top of any part of the
areola, or the exposure of any part of the areola.
(1971 Code, § 11-10-2) (Ord. No. 1187, § 1, passed 5-13-1982)
SEC. 11-10-2 PERMITTING A VIOLATION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any place of
entertainment, including a restaurant, club, dance hall, or any other public
establishment of any kind to allow or permit any waitress, dancer, entertainer,
or other employee of the establishment to publicly expose her breast or breasts
to members of the opposite sex.
(1971 Code, § 11-10-3) (Ord. No. 1187, § 1, passed 5-13-1982)
SEC. 11-10-3 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   (A)   Violation of provisions of this article shall subject the offender to
a civil penalty in the amount of $500 to be recovered by the city. Violators
shall be issued a written citation which must be paid within 72 hours.
   (B)   Each day’s continuing violation of this article shall be a separate
and distinct offense.
   (C)   Notwithstanding subsection (A) above, this article may also be
enforced by appropriate equitable remedies issuing from a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(1971 Code, § 11-10-4) (Ord. No. 1187, § 1, passed 5-13-1982)
ARTICLE B. MASSAGE PARLORS
SEC. 11-10-11 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY OF ARTICLE.
   To protect the general health, safety, welfare and morals, the following
licensing provisions hereinafter specified are ordained for the privilege of
carrying on the business, trade or profession of masseur or masseuse and for
the operation or carrying on of the businesses, trade or professions commonly
known as massage parlors, health salons, physical culture studios, clubs or
establishments, or similar establishments by whatever name designated, wherein
physical culture, massage, hydrotherapy or other physical treatment of the
human body is carried on or practiced. The provisions of this article shall not
apply to a regularly established and licensed hospital, medical school,
sanitarium, nursing home or medical clinic, nor to the office or clinic
operated by a duly qualified and licensed medical practitioner, osteopath or
chiropractor in connection with his or her practice; provided, however, that
the office or clinic is regularly used by such medical practitioner,
chiropractor or osteopath as his or her principal location for his or her
practice; nor to athletic trainers employed by educational institutions to
offer services solely to athletes in athletic programs, nor to treatments given
by a person licensed under the provisions of the North Carolina Massage and
Bodywork Therapy Practice Act, being G.S. 90-620 et seq. 
(Ord. No. 1188, § 1, passed 5-13-1982; Ord. No. 2442, § 1, passed 3-12-1992;
Ord. No. 06-01, § 1, passed 1-12-2006)
SEC. 11-10-12 DEFINITIONS.
   A male person who applies manual or mechanical massage or similar treatment
to the human body trunk or limbs shall be deemed, within the terms of this
section, a “masseur;” and a female person so engaged, a “masseuse.”
(Ord. No. 1188, § 1, passed 5-13-1982)
SEC. 11-10-13 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to engage in the business, trade or profession of
masseur or masseuse or the operation or carrying on of any of the businesses,
trades, professions, occupations or callings mentioned in section
11-10-11 shall, before engaging in the business, trade, profession, occupation
or calling, file an application for a license addressed to the Mayor and the
City Council.
   (B)   The application shall be in writing and shall set forth the following:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant. If the applicant be a corporation,
the address or addresses of the corporation and its officers; and
      (2)   Qualifications. These must be plainly stated and must be submitted
together with required exhibits annexed to the application proving those
qualifications.
(Ord. No. 1188, § 1, passed 5-13-1982)
SEC. 11-10-14 QUALIFICATIONS OF APPLICANT FOR LICENSE.
   An applicant hereunder, prior to making application for a license, must have
the following qualifications:
   (A)   The applicant may be male or female and shall be required to provide
written recommendations showing proof of good moral character; and, in case the
applicant is a corporation, the corporation must be created in or domesticated
by the laws of this state and the officers and local managing agent thereof
shall provide written recommendations showing proof of good moral character.
   (B)   Each applicant must furnish a health certificate from a medical doctor
which shall accompany the application as an exhibit. Should the applicant be a
corporation, it shall furnish such certificates to cover its officers, agents
or employees who will be actually engaged in and working under the license.
Each employee who begins work following the original issuance of a license
under this article shall likewise obtain a health certificate. A copy of the
application and all certificates shall be furnished to the Police Department.
(Ord. No. 1188, § 1, passed 5-13-1982)
SEC. 11-10-15 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   If the application is submitted in proper form and is approved by the City
Council, then the city Tax Collector is authorized to issue a business license
to the applicant.
(Ord. No. 1188, § 1, passed 5-13-1982)
SEC. 11-10-16 AUTHORITY TO EMPLOY, TRAIN PERSONNEL.
   Any applicant granted a license hereunder shall have the authority to train
masseurs and masseuses under his or her supervision in his or her studio or
establishment, provided that the licensee shall furnish to the Police
Department of the city, there to be kept by the department, a health
certificate of the employee from a medical doctor.
(Ord. No. 1188, § 1, passed 5-13-1982)
SEC. 11-10-17 NAMES OF EMPLOYEES TO BE FILED WITH CHIEF OF POLICE.
   It shall be the duty of all persons holding a license hereunder to file with
the Chief of Police of the city the names of all employees, their home
addresses, home telephone numbers and places of employment. Changes in the list
of employees with the names of new employees must be filed with the Chief of
Police within seven days from the date of any such change.
(Ord. No. 1188, § 1, passed 5-13-1982)
SEC. 11-10-18 RECORDS TO BE KEPT BY LICENSEE.
   It shall be the duty of any person granted a license hereunder to maintain
correct and accurate records of the names and addresses of the persons
receiving treatment at the establishment, the type of treatment administered,
and the name of the person of the establishment administering the treatment.
The records shall be subject to inspection at any reasonable time by any member
of the Police Department of the city.
(Ord. No. 1188, § 1, passed 5-13-1982)
SEC. 11-10-19 ENFORCEMENT AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police of the city to inspect
periodically the premises licensed under this article, to determine any
violations of its provisions, and to otherwise enforce the article.
   (B)   Whenever the Chief of Police shall have good cause to believe there
exist grounds for revocation of any license acquired hereunder, he or she shall
submit a written recommendation of revocation to the City Council and by
registered mail shall forward, at least ten days prior to hearing, a copy of
his or her recommendation to the licensee. The recommendation shall state the
specific grounds for the revocation of the license.
   (C)   Cause for revocation of the license shall exist for the failure of the
licensee to perform any duty required by this article, for violation of any
provision of this article, or for conviction of the licensee of any crime
involving moral turpitude. Grounds shall also exist if, by reason of the nature
or the manner or place in which the licensee conducts business, a nuisance and
menace to good order, public health, safety or morals is created.
   (D)   The City Council, whenever it has good cause to believe there exist
grounds for revocation of any license acquired hereunder, may, upon its own
motion, set a hearing, as hereinabove provided, to show good cause why the
license should not be revoked. Written notice stating the specific alleged
grounds for revocation shall be forwarded by registered mail to the licensee,
at least ten days prior to the hearing, which shall be held in exactly the same
manner as if initiated by the Chief of Police.
   (E)   Prior to revocation of any license by the City Council, the licensee
shall be given an opportunity to appear and be heard, either personally or
through his or her attorney, to rebut any evidence against him or her, and to
present evidence and witnesses in his or her defense. If the licensee fails to
show good cause why his or her license should not be revoked, the City Council
may revoke the license, upon a finding by the Council of a cause for
revocation.
(Ord. No. 1188, § 1, passed 5-13-1982)
SEC. 11-10-20 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No masseur or masseuse or any person or party engaging in any of the
businesses licensed by this article shall engage in the business, trade,
profession, occupation or calling except within and between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m.; nor shall any operator of a massage parlor or
establishment or business above enumerated and not specifically excepted
hereunder, operate the same except within and between the aforesaid hours.
(Ord. No. 1188, § 1, passed 5-13-1982)
SEC. 11-10-21 TREATMENT OF PERSONS OF OPPOSITE SEX RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person holding a license under this section to
treat a person of the opposite sex, except upon the signed order of a licensed
physician, osteopath, chiropractor or registered physical therapist, which
order shall be dated and shall specifically state the number of treatments, not
to exceed ten. The date and hour of each treatment given and the name of the
operator shall be entered on the order by the establishment where such
treatments are given and shall be subject to inspection by the police at any
reasonable time.
(Ord. No. 1188, § 1, passed 5-13-1982)
SEC. 11-10-22 PATRONAGE OF MASSAGE PARLORS BY MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to patronize
any massage parlor or similar establishment licensed hereunder unless the
person carries with him or her, at the time of the patronage, a written order
directing the treatment to be given, signed by a licensed physician.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the operator of the massage parlor or similar
establishment licensed hereunder to determine and have verification of the age
of the person patronizing the establishment, and violation of this section
shall be grounds for the revocation of the license of the establishment.
(Ord. No. 1188, § 1, passed 5-13-1982)
SEC. 11-10-23 MASSAGES BY UNLICENSED PERSONS.
   Massages as permitted by this article may be given by persons not holding a
license as masseur or masseuse only if such massages are given under the direct
supervision of a person having a license as a masseur or masseuse who shall be
in the same room where the massage is being administered during the entire time
of the giving of the massage.
(Ord. No. 1188, § 1, passed 5-13-1982)
SEC. 11-10-24 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this article with respect to the original issuance of
license shall not apply to those engaged in the businesses, trades,
professions, occupations or callings enumerated above who have been so engaged
in the city for a period of three years or more prior to the adoption of this
article; provided, however, that the provisions of this article shall apply to
all such businesses, trades, professions, occupations or callings from and
after the date of the adoption of this article and all the businesses, trades,
professions, occupations or callings shall be properly licensed as provided
herein.
(Ord. No. 1188, § 1, passed 5-13-1982)
SEC. 11-10-25 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   (A)   Violation of provisions of this article shall subject the offender to
a civil penalty in the amount of $500 to be recovered by the city. Violators
shall be issued a written citation which must be paid within 72 hours.
   (B)   Each day’s continuing violation of this article shall be a separate
and distinct offense.
   (C)   Notwithstanding subsection (A) this article may also be enforced by
appropriate equitable remedies issuing from a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. 1188, § 1, passed 5-13-1982)
CHAPTER 11: TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND ITINERANT VENDORS
Section
   
11-11-1   License required
   
11-11-2   Definitions
   
11-11-3   Application
   
11-11-4   Investigation and issuance of license
   
11-11-5   Bond
   
11-11-6   Service of process
   
11-11-7   Exhibition of license
   
11-11-8   Fees
   
11-11-9   License not transferable
   
11-11-10   Duty of police to enforce
   
11-11-11   Revocation of license
   
11-11-12   Appeal
   
11-11-13   Expiration and renewal of license
   
11-11-14   Penalty
SEC. 11-11-1 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for a transient merchant, itinerant merchant or
itinerant vendor as defined in section
11-11-2 to engage in that business within the city without first obtaining a
license in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 1330, § 1, passed 11-10-1983)
SEC. 11-11-2 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Transient merchant, itinerant merchant or transient vendor. Any person, firm,
corporation, whether as owner, agent, consignee or employee, whether a resident
of the city or not, who engages in a temporary business of selling and
delivering goods, wares and merchandise within the city, and who in furtherance
of that purpose hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, motor
vehicle, tent, railroad boxcar, car, boat, public room in a hotel or
restaurant, lodging house, apartment, shop, any street or alley, or other place
within the city, or goes door to door for the exhibition and sale of the goods,
wares and merchandise, whether privately or at public auction; provided that
the definition shall not be construed to include:
         (a)   Any person selling edible farm produce, such as fruits and
vegetables;
         (b)   Any person selling at a “flea market;”
         (c)   Any person regulated under
Chapter 4 of Title 11 of this Code;
         (d)   Any person, firm or corporation who, while occupying the
temporary location, does not sell from stock, but exhibits samples only for the
purpose of securing orders for future delivery only;
         (e)   Any person selling at the farmer’s market sponsored by Pitt
County;
         (f)   Any person, firm or corporation who otherwise meets the
definitions above but who is part of a group of ten or more merchants selling
at a shopping area or trade show, and is selling at the invitation of the
shopping area or trade show, and where the sales activities do not last longer
than seven days;
         (g)   Any person or organization selling on the campus of East
Carolina University if the sale is sponsored or approved by the university;
         (h)   Any person selling Christmas trees and holiday decorations;
         (i)   Licensed automobile dealers selling new automobiles; or
         (j)   Any auctioneer licensed and acting under the provisions of G.S.
Chapter 85B.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation so engaged shall be relieved from
complying with the provisions of this chapter merely by reason of associating
temporarily with any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer, or by
conducting the transient business in connection with, as a part of, or in the
name of any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer.
(Ord. No. 1330, § 1, passed 11-10-1983; Ord. No. 1540, § 1, passed 9-12-1985;
Ord. No. 2246, § 1, passed 9-13-1990; Ord. No. 94-86, § 5, passed 6-9-1994)
SEC. 11-11-3 APPLICATION.
   Applicants for license shall file a written sworn application signed by the
applicant, if an individual, by all partners if a partnership, and by the
president if a corporation, with the Police Department showing:
   (A)   The name or names of the person or persons having the management or
supervision of applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed that it
will be carried on in the city; the local address or addresses of such person
or persons while engaged in the business; the permanent address or address of
the person or persons; the capacity in which the person or persons will act
(that is, whether as proprietor, agent or otherwise); the name and address of
the person, firm or corporation for whose account the business will be carried
on, if any; and if a corporation, under the laws of what state the corporation
is incorporated;
   (B)   Proof of a state sales tax reporting number issued by the North
Carolina Department of Revenue;
   (C)   The place or places in the city where the applicant proposes to
conduct business.
      (1)   The categories under which locations should be classified are as
follows:
         (a)   Single fixed site or multiple fixed sites on private property;
or
         (b)   Door-to-door or public rights-of-way.
      (2)   Other information which should also be stated includes: the length
of time during which it is proposed that the business shall be conducted; proof
of permission from the owner or lessee of the property to be used allowing the
applicant to conduct business at the proposed location(s); and, if applicable,
a zoning compliance permit from the Planning and Development Services
Department of the city stating that the proposed sales activity is a permitted
use in the proposed location.
   (D)   The place or places, other than the permanent place of business of the
applicant, where the applicant was conducting business within the last six
months;
   (E)   A statement of the nature, character and quality of the goods, wares
or merchandise to be sold or offered for sale by the applicant, the invoice
value and quality of the goods, wares and merchandise, whether the same are
proposed to be sold from stock in possession or from stock in possession and by
sample; at auction, by direct sale or by direct sale and by taking orders for
future delivery; where the goods or property proposed to be sold are
manufactured or produced and where the goods or products are located at the
time the application is filed;
   (F)   A brief statement of the nature and character of the advertising done
or proposed to be done in order to attract customers, and copies of all the
advertising whether by handbills, circular, newspaper advertising, or
otherwise, shall be attached to the application;
   (G)   Whether or not the person or persons having the management or
supervision of the applicant’s business have been convicted of a crime or the
violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature of the offense and the
punishment assessed thereof;
   (H)   Credentials from the person, firm or corporation for which the
applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act as such
representative; and
   (I)   Such other reasonable information as to the identity or character of
the person or persons having the management or supervision of applicant’s
business or the method or plan of doing such business as the City Clerk may
deem proper to fulfill the purpose of this chapter in the protection of the
public goods.
(Ord. No. 1330, § 1, passed 11-10-1983; Ord. No. 94-86, §§ 6, 7, passed 6-9-
1994; Ord. No. 06-75, § 6, passed 8-10-2006; Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9-12-
2019)
SEC. 11-11-4 INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the application, the Police Department shall conduct
an investigation. The Police Department should complete the investigation
within 21 days. All applicants, as part of the investigation, will be required
to submit to a fingerprinting to be conducted by the Police Department. This
fingerprinting check will include state and federal authorities. As a part of
the investigation, the Police Department will also perform a computerized
criminal check.
      (1)   The application will be reviewed by the planning staff of the city
for any fixed site or sites proposed by the applicant.
      (2)   The application will also be reviewed by the Finance Department of
the city to determine what, if any, appropriate privilege licenses apply to the
application.
   (B)   (1)   If, as a result of the investigation, the applicant’s character
and business responsibility are found to be unsatisfactory, the application
shall be denied. The Police Department also reserves the right to revoke any
license already issued at any time if unsatisfactory information is discovered
about the applicant through the fingerprinting or computerized criminal
process.
      (2)   If, as a result of the investigation, the character and business
reputation appear to be satisfactory, the Police Department shall so certify in
writing, and a license shall be issued by the Police Department. The Police
Department shall keep a full record of all licenses issued. The license shall
contain the number of the license, the date it was issued, the nature of the
business authorized to be carried on, the amount of the license fee paid, the
expiration date of the license, the place where the business may be carried on
under the license, and the names of the persons authorized to carry on the
business.
(Ord. No. 1330, § 1, passed 11-10-1983; Ord. No. 94-86, § 8, passed 6-9-1994)
SEC. 11-11-5 BOND.
   Before any license shall be issued under the provisions of section
11-11-4 for engaging in a transient business as defined in section
11-11-2, an applicant shall file with the Police Department a bond running to
the city in the sum of $1,000 executed by the applicant, as principal, or a
surety upon which service of process may be made in the state; the bond to be
approved by the office of the City Attorney, conditioned that the applicant
shall comply fully with all of the provisions of the ordinances of the city,
and the statutes of the state, regulating and concerning the sale of goods,
wares and merchandise, and will pay all judgments rendered against the
applicant for any violation of the ordinances or statutes, together with all
judgments and costs that may be recovered against him or her by any person for
damages arising out of any misrepresentation or deception practices on any
person transacting such business with the applicant, whether the
misrepresentations or deceptions were made or practiced by the owners or by
their servants, agents or employees, either at the time of making the sale or
through any advertisement of any character whatsoever, printed or calculated
with reference to the goods, wares and merchandise sold or any part thereof.
Action on the bond may be brought in the name of the city to the use of the
aggrieved person. The bond required by this section shall be posted and remain
in effect for a period of one year from the date of application, and one year
from the date of any renewal, of any license issued under this chapter. The
bond must be approved by the office of the City Attorney, both as to form, and
as to the responsibility of the surety.
(Ord. No. 1330, § 1, passed 11-10-1983; Ord. No. 94-86, § 9, passed 6-9-1994)
SEC. 11-11-6 SERVICE OF PROCESS.
   Before any license may be issued for engaging in business as an itinerant
merchant, the applicant shall file with the Police Department an instrument
appointing a person, firm or corporation located in Pitt County to be the agent
of the applicant for service of process with respect to any matters connected
with or arising out of the business transacted under the license given and the
bond required by this chapter. The Police Department may be named as the agent
for service of process by the applicant.
(Ord. No. 1330, § 1, passed 11-10-1983; Ord. No. 94-86, § 10, passed 6-9-1994)
SEC. 11-11-7 EXHIBITION OF LICENSE.
   The license issued under this chapter shall be posted conspicuously along
with any applicable privilege license in the place of business(es) named
therein, or must be carried with the person at all times if going door to door
or on public rights-of-way.
(Ord. No. 1330, § 1, passed 11-10-1983; Ord. No. 94-86, § 11, passed 6-9-1994)
SEC. 11-11-8 FEES.
   (A)   Before issuing a license under this chapter, the Police Department
shall collect an administrative processing fee at an amount set by the City
Council, and which is stated in the Manual of Fees. This fee is to cover the
administrative costs of processing the application required by this chapter and
shall not be considered a tax, nor shall it relieve the applicant of paying any
other state or local taxes required by law.
   (B)   The Police Department shall collect a nonrefundable administrative
processing fee for each renewal issued under section
11-11-13 at an amount set by the City Council, and which is stated in the
Manual of Fees.
(Ord. No. 1330, § 1, passed 11-10-1983; Ord. No. 1504, §§ 1, 2, passed 6-6-
1985; Ord. No. 94-86, § 3, passed 6-9-1994)
SEC. 11-11-9 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
(Ord. No. 1330, § 1, passed 11-10-1983)
SEC. 11-11-10 DUTY OF POLICE TO ENFORCE.
   It shall be the duty of the police officers of the city to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 1330, § 1, passed 11-10-1983)
SEC. 11-11-11 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Any licenses issued pursuant to this chapter may be revoked by the
Police Department, after notice and hearing, for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license;
      (2)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the selling of goods, wares or merchandise;
      (3)   Any violation of this chapter;
      (4)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or of a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude; or
      (5)   Conducting the business licensed under this chapter in an unlawful
manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to
constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
   (B)   Notice of hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. The notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the
licensee, at his or her last known address, at least five days prior to the
date set for the hearing.
(Ord. No. 1330, § 1, passed 11-10-1983; Ord. No. 94-86, § 13, passed 6-9-1994)
SEC. 11-11-12 APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Police Department to deny an
application for a license or to revoke a license may appeal to the City
Council. The appeal shall be taken by filing with the Council, within 14 days
after notice of the decision by the Police Department has been mailed to the
person’s last known address, a written statement setting forth the grounds for
the appeal. The Council shall set the time and place for a hearing on the
appeal and in section
11-11-11 for notice of hearing or revocation. The order of this Council on the
appeal shall be final.
(Ord. No. 1330, § 1, passed 11-10-1983; Ord. No. 94-86, § 14, passed 6-9-1994)
SEC. 11-11-13 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All licenses issued under the provision of this chapter shall expire
90 days after the date of issuance unless an earlier date is stated on the
license.
   (B)   Any license issued under the provisions of this chapter may be renewed
any number of times upon the following conditions:
      (1)   The applicant makes a written application for renewal stating that
the person or persons managing the business are the same as those listed in the
original application, that the place or places where the applicant proposes to
conduct business have not changed, and a statement explaining any material
change in circumstances from the information given in the original application;
      (2)   The applicant must show to the satisfaction of the office of the
City Attorney that the bond covering the applicant’s business will be valid for
at least one year from the date of any license renewal; and
      (3)   That the Police Department be satisfied that there is no cause for
revocation under §
11-11-11.
(Ord. No. 1330, § 1, passed 11-10-1983; Ord. No. 94-86, § 15, passed 6-9-1994)
SEC. 11-11-14 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter shall subject the offender to a civil
penalty in the amount of $500. Violators shall be issued a written citation
which must be paid within 72 hours.
   (B)   Each day’s continuing violation shall be a separate and distinct
offense.
   (C)   Notwithstanding subsection (A) above, provisions of this chapter may
be enforced through equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (D)   Criminal penalty. In addition to or in lieu of any remedies available
in this section or by other operation of law, any person violating any
provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to
G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than
$100 and not more than $500.
(Ord. No. 1330, § 1, passed 11-10-1983; Ord. No. 2728, § 1, passed 10-14-1993;
Ord. No. 23-048, § 20, passed 6-8-2023)
CHAPTER 12: BAR SAFETY REGULATIONS
Section
   
11-12-1   Purpose
   
11-12-2   Definitions
   
11-12-3   Criminal record check of bouncers
   
11-12-4   Training of bouncers
   
11-12-5   Enforcement
   
11-12-6   No effect on ABC permits
   
11-12-7   Penalty
SEC. 11-12-1 PURPOSE.
   In order to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the city and its
citizens, it is the purpose of this chapter to establish reasonable and uniform
requirements in order to address the harmful effects associated with
establishments for which entertainment is the principal use and which a large
number of patrons congregate late at night.
(Ord. No. 09-98, § 1, passed 12-10-2009)
SEC. 11-12-2 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter the following terms shall have the following
meanings unless the context clearly indicates that a different meaning is
intended:
   Bouncer means a person employed by a bar as an employee or contractor to
perform the function of maintaining order, removing disorderly or disruptive
patrons, checking identification cards or providing general security for the
bar but not including a person who is employed for the primary and substantial
purpose (greater than 90% of duties) to perform the functions of a bartender,
waiter, or waitress and not including a person who is employed as a uniformed
off-duty law enforcement officer or a uniformed security guard provided by a
security guard and control profession licensed in accordance with the
provisions of G.S. Chapter 74C.
   Conviction and convicted mean a finding of guilt for a violation of a state
or federal law, an adjudication withheld on such a finding of guilt, an
adjudication of guilt on any plea of guilty or nolo contendere, or the
forfeiture of a bond or bail when charged with a violation of a state or
federal law.
   Bar means an establishment which the principal use is a bar as defined by
the Zoning Ordinance for Greenville, North Carolina.
(Ord. No. 09-98, § 1, passed 12-10-2009)
SEC. 11-12-3 CRIMINAL RECORD CHECK OF BOUNCERS.
   (A)   No bar shall employ a person as a bouncer who has been convicted of a
crime relating to either (1) the sale, manufacture, distribution, or possession
of controlled substances as made unlawful by the provisions of G.S. 90-95, or
(2) criminal street gang activity as made unlawful by the provisions of the
North Carolina Street Gang Suppression Act as provided in G.S. Chapter 14, Art.
13A, or (3) prostitution or assignation as made unlawful by the provisions of
G.S. 14-204 or (4) homicide, assault, affray, communicating threats, unlawful
possession of dangerous or deadly firearms, or discharge of a dangerous or
deadly firearm as made unlawful by the provisions of G.S. Chapter 14.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a), a bar is not
prohibited from employing a person as a bouncer as a result of the conviction
of an offense listed in subsection (a) when the following time period has
elapsed:
      (1)   More than two years has elapsed since the date of conviction or the
date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is for a misdemeanor offense;
      (2)   More than five years has elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the later
date, if the conviction is for a felony offense; or
      (3)   More than five years has elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are for two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24-month
period.
   (C)   A bar shall submit to the chief of police or designee on a quarterly
basis no later than the fifteenth day after the close of the quarter a list of
all persons employed as a bouncer at the bar that quarter. The list shall
indicate the date of initial employment of each person as a bouncer and shall
be on a form provided by the police department. The bar shall submit to the
chief of police or designee no later than 30 days after the date of initial
employment of a person as a bouncer and, annually thereafter, a criminal record
check for each person employed as a bouncer by the bar. The criminal record
check submitted shall be conducted by a method acceptable to the chief of
police but shall not be required to be a criminal record check based upon
fingerprints from the North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation.
(Ord. No. 09-98, § 1, passed 12-10-2009; Ord. No. 13-021, § 1, passed 5-9-2013)
SEC. 11-12-4 TRAINING OF BOUNCERS.
   (A)   No shall employ a person as a bouncer who has not completed a training
program for bouncers conducted by the police department within the immediately
preceding two year period except that a bar may employ a person as a bouncer
for the person’s initial employment with the bar for a period of no more than
90 days commencing on the date of the person’s initial employment with the bar
without the person having received the training.
   (B)   All persons employed as a bouncer at a bar shall complete a training
program for bouncers conducted by the police department every two years from
the date of the initial training of the bouncer. The training program shall
consist of classroom training on addressing disturbances occurring at bar and
any other topic deemed appropriate by the chief of police.
   (C)   A bar shall submit to the chief of police or designee on a quarterly
basis no later than the fifteenth day after the close of the quarter a list of
all persons employed as a bouncer at the bar during that quarter. The list
shall indicate the date of initial employment of each person as a bouncer and
the most recent date each person completed a training program for bouncers
conducted by the police department. The list shall be on a form provided by the
police department.
(Ord. No. 09-98, § 1, passed 12-10-2009; Ord. No. 13-021, § 2, passed 5-9-2013)
SEC. 11-12-5 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   A police officer or other person authorized by the City Manager to
enforce the provisions of this chapter may issue a written citation for a
violation of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The owner and the manager of the bar are responsible for compliance
with the provisions of this chapter. A written citation for a violation of the
provisions of this chapter may be issued to the owner or the manager of the bar
and the owner or the manager who is issued the citation will suffer the
penalties and be subject to the remedies as set forth in section
11-12-6.
   (C)   An owner or a manager who has been issued a citation may appeal the
citation to the Chief of Police or designee. Written notice of appeal must be
filed within ten days of the date of the issuance of the citation.
(Ord. No. 09-98, § 1, passed 12-10-2009)
SEC. 11-12-6 NO EFFECT ON ABC PERMITS.
   The provisions of this chapter are not intended or designed to establish
rules on the manufacture, sale, purchase, transportation, possession,
consumption or other use of alcoholic beverages. The provisions of this chapter
apply to a bar whether or not the bar has been issued an, ABC permit by the
North Carolina Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission. Any violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall not affect any ABC permit issued to the bar by
the North Carolina Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission.
(Ord. No. 09-98, § 1, passed 12-10-2009)
SEC. 11-12-7 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter or a failure to comply
with any of its requirements shall subject the offender to a civil penalty as
follows:
      (1)   In the amount of $50 for each offense on the first day of such
offense; and
      (2)   In the amount of $100 for each offense either (i) on the second day
of such offense or (ii) when the offense is a second offense within a 12-month
period; and
      (3)   In the amount of $250 for each offense either (i) on the third day
and on each subsequent day of such offense or (ii) when the offense is the
third or subsequent offense within a 12-month period.
   (B)   Violators shall be issued a written citation which must be paid within
ten days. If a person fails to pay the civil penalty within ten days, the city
may recover the penalty, together with all costs and reasonable attorneys’
fees, by filing a civil action in the general court of justice in the nature of
a suit to collect a debt.
   (C)   This chapter may also be enforced by any appropriate equitable action.
   (D)   Where a violation continues after the tenth day that a citation is
issued and every tenth day thereafter that any violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense for purposes of the penalties and remedies
specified in this section. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the escalating civil
penalties authorized by subsection (A) may be invoked whenever the violation
continues and there has been sufficient time for the violation to be corrected
after notification that such violation exists or whenever the violation has
occurred previously during a 12-month period.
   (E)   Any one, all, or any combination of the foregoing penalties and
remedies may be used to enforce this chapter.
   (F)   Any violations of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a
non-criminal violation and shall not be a misdemeanor or infraction pursuant to
G.S. 14-4.
(Ord. No. 09-98, § 1, passed 12-10-2009; Ord. No. 13-021, § 3, passed 5-9-2013)
CHAPTER 13: MISCELLANEOUS
Section
   
11-13-1   Sunday sales of alcoholic beverages
SEC. 11-13-1 SUNDAY SALES OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by S.L. 2017-87 any establishment located
in the corporate limits of the City of Greenville and holding an ABC permit
issued pursuant to G.S. 18B-1001 is permitted to sell malt beverages,
unfortified wine, fortified wine, and mixed beverages as allowed by its permit
beginning at 10:00 a.m. on Sundays.
(Ord. No. 17-048, § 1, passed 10-10-2017)
TITLE 12
OFFENSES AND PUBLIC NUISANCES
   
Chapter 1.   Specific Offenses
   
Chapter 2.   Animals
   
Chapter 3.   Weeds, Vegetation and Other Public Health Nuisances
   
Chapter 4.   Abandoned, Nuisance and Junked Motor Vehicles
   
Chapter 5.   Noise Control
   
Chapter 6.   Repair of Potholes on Private Property
CHAPTER 1: SPECIFIC OFFENSES
Section
   
12-1-1   Extreme park
   
12-1-2   Alcoholic beverages; social districts
   
12-1-3   Discharge of firearms and other weapons
   
12-1-4   Littering prohibited
   
12-1-5   Posting of handbills regulated
   
12-1-6   Reserved
   
12-1-7   Urinating, defecating in public
   
12-1-8   Reserved
   
12-1-9   False alarms
   
12-1-10   Reserved
   
12-1-11   Unlawful assembly in city-owned parking lot and trespass upon
privately owned parking lot
   
12-1-12   “Aggressive panhandling” within the city prohibited
   
12-1-13   Smoking regulated in municipal buildings and facilities
   
12-1-14   Concealed handguns prohibited; local government buildings, grounds
and recreational facilities
   
12-1-15   Reserved
   
12-1-16   Reserved
   
12-1-17   Reserved
   
12-1-18   Obstruction of sidewalks prohibited
   
12-1-19   Open burning
   
12-1-20   Bows and arrows and crossbows
Editor’s note:
   The provisions of former §
12-1-1, “Disorderly conduct,” were deleted at the direction of the city as
being covered by state law provisions.
SEC. 12-1-1 EXTREME PARK.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      Extreme park. A facility owned or operated by the city that is designed
or maintained for recreational skateboarding, inline skating or freestyle
biking.
      Hazardous recreational activity. Skateboarding, inline skating or
freestyle biking.
   (B)   Any person participating or engaged in a hazardous recreational
activity at an extreme park shall wear a helmet, elbow pads and knee pads.
   (C)   No person shall participate or engage in a hazardous recreational
activity at an extreme park without wearing a helmet, elbow pads and knee pads.
   (D)   Signs shall be posted at an extreme park providing notice that any
person engaged or participating in hazardous recreational activities at an
extreme park must wear a helmet, elbow pads and knee pads and that any person
failing to do so will be subject to citation for violation of the provisions of
this section.
   (E)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   A violation of any of the provisions of this section shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty by way of a civil ticket in an amount as
follows:
         (a)   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
         (b)   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
         (c)   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
      (2)   Appeals; payment of civil penalty. Unless appealed in accordance
with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, a civil penalty
assessed for a violation of any provision of this section must be paid to and
received by the revenue division of the city's Financial Services Department
within five business days from the date of issuance.
      (3)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with the appeal provisions of this chapter, if full payment for an
assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the revenue division of the
city's Financial Services Department, the city may recover the unpaid civil
penalty by any or all of the following methods:
         (a)   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
         (b)   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
         (c)   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
         (d)   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
         (e)   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect, satisfy,
or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (4)   Separate offenses. Each violation of this section and each day that
a violation continues is considered a separate offense.
(1971 Code, § 12-1-21) (Ord. No. 08-104, § 1, passed 10-06-2008; Ord. No. 23-
049, § 1, passed 6- 8-2023)
SEC. 12-1-2 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; SOCIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions, regardless of capitalization, shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. To the extent any of the
definitions are contrary to the provisions of G.S. Chapter 18B or Chapter 20,
the definitions as found in G.S. Chapter 18B and Chapter 20 shall control.
      ABC Commission. The North Carolina Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission
established under G.S. 18B-200.
      ABC permit or permits. Any written or printed authorization issued by the
Commission pursuant to the provisions of G.S. Chapter 18B, other than a
purchase-transportation permit. Unless the context clearly requires otherwise,
as in the provisions concerning applications for permits, ABC permit or permit
means a presently valid permit.
      Alcohol consumable. Any manufactured and packaged ice cream, ice pop,
gum-based, or gelatin-based food product containing at least 0.5% alcohol by
volume.
      Alcoholic beverage. Any beverage containing at least 0.5% alcohol by
volume, including malt beverages, unfortified wine, fortified wine, spirituous
liquor, mixed beverages, and any alcohol consumable.
      Chief of Police. The Chief of Police of the Greenville Police Department
or designee.
      City. The City of Greenville.
      Customer. A person who purchases an alcoholic beverage from a permittee
that is in a social district.
      Fortified wine. Any wine or alcohol consumable containing more than 16%
and no more than 24% alcohol by volume, made by fermentation from grapes,
fruits, berries, rice, or honey; or by the addition of pure cane, beet, or
dextrose sugar; or by the addition of pure brandy from the same type of grape,
fruit, berry, rice, or honey that is contained in the base wine and produced in
accordance with the regulations of the United States.
      Intersection. The area embraced within the prolongation of the lateral
curblines or, if none, then the lateral edge of roadway lines of two or more
highways which join one another at any angle whether or not one such highway
crosses the other. Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event that such
intersecting highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of two roadways of such highways shall be regarded as a separate
intersection.
      Malt beverage. Beer, lager, malt liquor, ale, porter, and any other
brewed or fermented beverage or alcohol consumable except unfortified or
fortified wine as defined by G.S. Chapter 18B, containing at least 0.5%, and
not more than 15%, alcohol by volume. Any malt beverage containing more than 6%
alcohol by volume shall bear a label clearly indicating the alcohol content of
the malt beverage.
      Manual of Fees. The fee schedule approved and adopted by the Greenville
City Council which is periodically updated and lists sales and services
provided by the City of Greenville.
      Mixed beverage. Either of the following:
         (a)   A drink composed in whole or in part of spirituous liquor and
served in a quantity less than the quantity contained in a closed package.
         (b)   A premixed cocktail served from a closed package containing only
one serving.
      Non-permittee business. A business that is located in a social district
and does not hold any ABC permit.
      Open container. A container whose seal has been broken or a container
other than the manufacturer's unopened original container.
      Permittee. An establishment holding any of the following permits issued
by the ABC Commission:
         (a)   An on-premises malt beverage permit issued pursuant to G.S. 18B-
1001(l).
         (b)   An on-premises unfortified wine permit issued pursuant to G.S.
18B-1001(3).
         (c)   An on-premises fortified wine permit issued pursuant to G.S. 1
SB-1001(5).
         (d)   A mixed beverages permit issued pursuant to G.S. 18B-1001(10).
         (e)   A wine shop permit issued pursuant to G.S. 18B-1001(16).
         (f)   A distillery permit issued pursuant to G.S. 18B-1100(5).
      Person. An individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
limited liability company, other organization or group, or other combination of
persons acting as a unit.
      Police Department. The Greenville Police Department.
      Police officers. Sworn law enforcement officers employed by the
Greenville Police Department.
      Premises. A fixed permanent establishment, including all areas inside or
outside the licensed establishment, where the permittee has control through a
lease, deed, or other legal process.
      Social district. A defined area in which a person may consume alcoholic
beverages sold by a permittee. A social district may include both indoor and
outdoor areas of businesses within or contiguous to the defined area during the
days and hours set by the local government by ordinance pursuant to G.S. 18B-
300.1(d). A social district may include privately owned property, including
permittees and non-permittee businesses, and multi-tenant establishments, as
defined in G.S. 18B-1001.5, and public streets, crosswalks, or parking areas
whether or not the streets or parking areas are closed to vehicle traffic.
      Spirituous liquor or liquor. Distilled spirits or ethyl alcohol, and any
alcohol consumable containing distilled spirits or ethyl alcohol, including
spirits of wine, whiskey, rum, brandy, gin and all other distilled spirits and
mixtures of cordials, liqueur, and premixed cocktails, in closed containers
regardless of their dilution.
      Unfortified wine. Any wine or alcohol consumable containing 16% or less
alcohol by volume made by fermentation from grapes, fruits, berries, rice, or
honey; or by the addition of pure cane, beet, or dextrose sugar; or by the
addition of pure brandy from the same type of grape, fruit, berry, rice, or
honey that is contained in the base wine and produced in accordance with the
regulations of the United States.
   (B)   Possession of open container of unfortified wine or malt beverage
prohibited. Unless otherwise allowed by State law or this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person to possess an open container of unfortified wine or
malt beverage upon either of the following:
      (1)   A public street in the city by a person who is not an occupant of a
motor vehicle.
      (2)   Any property owned, occupied, or controlled by the city, including,
but not limited to a sidewalk, alley, building, parcel, lot, park, or parking
lot.
   (C)   Consumption of unfortified wine or malt beverage prohibited. Unless
otherwise allowed by State law or this section, it shall be unlawful for any
person to consume unfortified wine or a malt beverage upon either of the
following:
      (1)   A public street in the city by a person who is not an occupant of a
motor vehicle.
      (2)   Any property owned, occupied, or controlled by the city, including,
but not limited to a sidewalk, alley, building, parcel, lot, park, or parking
lot.
   (D)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Malt beverages and unfortified wine. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this section and as otherwise allowed by state law, upon obtaining
all ABC permits as required by law; obtaining all city permits as may be
required; paying all fees as may be required by the Manual of Fees; entering
into any lease with the city as may be required; obtaining the written approval
of the City Manager and subject to any conditions identified by the City
Manager in the written approval; and complying with the procedure regarding the
sale, service, possession, or consumption of alcoholic beverages on city
property as adopted by the City Manager, the sale, service, possession, and
consumption of malt beverages and unfortified wine is allowed upon designated
portions of:
         (a)   A golf course owned, occupied, or controlled by the city.
         (b)   A convention center owned, occupied, or controlled by the city.
         (c)   The Walter L. Stasavich Science and Nature Center and River Park
North.
         (d)   The building owned by the city at the Perkins Complex.
         (e)   The C.M. Eppes Recreation Center.
         (f)   A building owned by the city and leased to a person for a
continuous term of greater than two years.
         (g)   The Town Common, which may include the parking lot and foot
bridge, and those portions of First Street and sidewalks that adjoin the Town
Common if those portions are temporarily closed to vehicular traffic pursuant
to a permit issued by the City Manager pursuant to City Code Section
10-2-150 entitled “TEMPORARY CLOSING OF STREETS FOR SPECIAL EVENTS” as may be
amended from time to time.
         (h)   Wildwood Park.
         (i)   Five Points Plaza.
         (j)   Guy Smith Stadium if the ABC permit holder has entered a lease
with the city of Guy Smith Stadium for a continuous period of at least ten
years.
         (k)   Any public streets, sidewalks, alleys, or parking lots in the
“downtown area” which are temporarily closed to vehicular traffic for special
events. “Downtown area” is a term that is defined in the procedure adopted by
the City Manager.
         (l)   The main library of Sheppard Memorial Library at a special event
approved by the Sheppard Memorial Library Board of Trustees.
            Factors which the City Manager shall consider when permitting the
sale, service, possession, or consumption of malt beverages and unfortified
wine as may be allowed by State law and the ABC Commission pursuant to
subsections (D)(1)(a) to (D)(1)(l) of this section include but are not limited
to:
            1.   That an applicable ABC permit for the special event has been
issued by the ABC Commission.
            2.   The city’s previous experience with the special event
organizer and/or the special event.
            3.   That the location and time for the special event are
appropriate.
            4.   That the special event organizer’s plans regarding crowd
control, cleanup, and other public safety and welfare matters are adequate.
         (m)   Social districts in accordance with this section.
      (2)   Fortified wine, spirituous liquor, and mixed beverages.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this section and as otherwise allowed by
state law, upon obtaining all ABC permits as required by law; obtaining all
city permits as may be required; paying all fees as may be required by the
Manual of Fees; entering into any lease with the city as may be required;
obtaining the written approval of the City Manager and subject to any
conditions identified by the City Manager in the written approval; and
complying with the procedure regarding the sale, service, possession, or
consumption of alcoholic beverages on city property as adopted by the City
Manager, the sale, service, possession, and consumption of fortified wine,
spirituous liquor, and mixed beverages is allowed upon designated portions of:
         (a)   A golf course owned, occupied, or controlled by the city.
         (b)   A convention center owned, occupied, or controlled by the city.
         (c)   The Town Common, which may include the parking lot and foot
bridge, and those portions of First Street and sidewalks that adjoin the Town
Common if those portions are temporarily closed pursuant to a permit issued by
the City Manager pursuant to City Code Section
10-2-150 entitled “TEMPORARY CLOSING OF STREETS FOR SPECIAL EVENTS” as may be
amended from time to time.
         (d)   Wildwood Park.
         (e)   Five Points Plaza.
         (f)   Guy Smith Stadium if the ABC permit holder has entered a lease
with the city of Guy Smith Stadium for a continuous period of at least ten
years.
         (g)   Any public streets, sidewalks, alleys, or parking lots in the
“downtown area” which are temporarily closed to vehicular traffic for special
events. “Downtown area” is a term that is defined in the procedure adopted by
the City Manager.
            Factors which the City Manager shall consider when permitting the
sale, service, possession, or consumption of fortified wine, spirituous liquor,
and mixed beverages as may be allowed by state law and the ABC Commission
pursuant to subsections (D)(2)(a) to (D)(2)(g) of this section include but are
not limited to:
            1.   That an applicable ABC permit for the special event has been
issued by the ABC Commission.
            2.   The city’s previous experience with the special event
organizer and/or the special event.
            3.   That the location and time for the special event are
appropriate.
            4.   That the special event organizer’s plans regarding crowd
control, cleanup, and other public safety and welfare matters are adequate.
         (h)   Social districts in accordance with this section.
   (E)   Social districts.
      (1)   Creation. Pursuant to the provisions of G.S. 160A-205.4, G.S. 18B-
300.1, and as otherwise allowed by state law, one or more social districts may
be created within the city.
      (2)   Management. City social districts shall be created, designated, and
managed in accordance with the requirements contained in G.S. 160A-205.4, G.S.
Chapter 18B, and this section.
      (3)   Designated social districts. The city hereby creates and designates
the following social district(s):
         (a)   The Greenville Uptown Social District shall be designated as
follows:
            1.   Detailed map of the Greenville Uptown Social District. A
detailed map of the Greenville Uptown Social District with the boundaries of
the social district clearly marked is attached to Ordinance No. 23-014 as
Exhibit A. The most current version of said map is available at the City
Clerk's office and on the city's website, is fully incorporated by reference
herein, and shall be deemed to have the same force and effect as if attached
and set forth in full herein.
            2.   All sidewalks and crosswalks included. All sidewalks, marked
crosswalks, and unmarked crosswalks at intersections within the boundaries of
the Greenville Uptown Social District are specifically included in the
Greenville Uptown Social District.
            3.   All streets and parking lots excluded. All streets and parking
lots within or abutting the boundaries of the Greenville Uptown Social District
are specifically excluded from the Greenville Uptown Social District.
      (4)   Social district days and hours. Alcoholic beverages may be consumed
by customers in accordance with the provisions of G.S. 18B-300.1 and this
section in the Greenville Uptown Social District Thursday through Saturday from
11:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
      (5)   Social district operation. The operation of the Greenville Uptown
Social District, including guidelines regarding the suspension of regular days
and hours of alcohol consumption in all or part of a social district during
events requiring other permits pursuant to G.S. 18B-300. l(j) shall be
established by and contained in the Social District Management and Maintenance
Plan.
      (6)   Suspension of the social district. In addition to any other
authority authorized by law, as may be required to protect the health and
safety of the general public, the City Manager or designee may suspend
operations of any or all social districts.
   (F)   Penalties. In addition to any other penalty as may be allowed by law,
a violation of this section may subject the offender to any or all of the
following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than $100 and not more than $500.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
issued a civil citation or citations, as may be required, as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
            2.   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            3.   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
         (b)   Contents and service of civil citation. A civil citation issued
for a violation of any provision of this section shall clearly state when the
civil penalty is due and the manner in which the violation may be appealed.
Civil citations issued under this section shall be served personally or by
first-class mail upon the violator by a police officer.
         (c)   Appeals; payment of civil penalties. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, all
civil penalties assessed for violations of any provision of this section must
be paid to and received by the revenue division of the city's Financial
Services Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
         (d)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalties. Unless appealed
in accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city's Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
            1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
            2.   The use of a collections agency.
            3.   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
            4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
            5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect,
satisfy, or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (3)   Continuing violations. Each day's continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 22-071, passed 8-18-2022; Ord. No. 23-014, § 1, passed 1-9-2023; Ord.
No. 23-050, § 1, passed 8-7-2023; Ord. No. 25-023, § 1, passed 8-11-2025)
SEC. 12-1-3 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS AND OTHER WEAPONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fire or discharge any firearm,
including guns, rifles, pistols, pellet guns, air guns or air rifles within the
city, on or off his or her premises, except that this section shall not be
construed to prohibit any law enforcement officer or authorized employee in the
Division of Animal Control from discharging a firearm in the performance of his
or her duty, nor to prohibit any citizen from discharging a firearm when
lawfully defending person or property.
   In addition, this subsection shall not prohibit a properly licensed person
for hunting purposes from discharging a firearm in the following area(s) only
with the permission of the property owner and only during established hunting
seasons as determined by the state wildlife resources commission:
      (1)   Sunny Side area. The area, as shown on the official zoning map of
the city, encompassing approximately 158 acres and more specifically delineated
by the map prepared by the City of Greenville Planning and Development Services
Department entitled "Sunny Side Hunting Overlay".
   (B)   Said discharge of firearms for hunting purposes shall be restricted
from within 300 feet of residences and street rights-of-way.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to take deer with rifles, except in one of the
aforementioned areas and from a position elevated at least eight feet above the
ground and not affixed to a motor vehicle. As used in this section, “to take”
means to take as that term is defined in G.S. 113-130(7).
   (D)   Any property used for hunting purposes must be posted in accordance
with G.S. 14-159.7. Regulations as to posting of property.
   (E)   Any person who shall knowingly and willfully permit his or her minor
child under 18 years of age to discharge, fire, shoot or operate, within the
city any such air rifle, BB gun or pellet gun shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
This subsection shall not apply when said minor child is accompanied by an
adult in a designated recreational/sport hunting overlay listed in subsection
(A) of this section.
   (F)   Penalties. A violation of this section may subject the offender to any
or all of the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than $100 and not more than $500.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
issued a civil citation or citations, as may be required, as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            2.   Subsequent violation within 365 days of the first violation.
Any subsequent violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from
herein defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of
$500.
         (b)   Service of civil penalties. Civil citations issued under this
section shall be served personally upon the violator by a member of the
Greenville Police Department or by any other means authorized for the service
of civil process by the North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure.
         (c)   Payment of civil penalties. All civil citations issued under
this section must be paid to the revenue division of the city’s Financial
Services Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
         (d)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalties. If a civil
penalty issued under this section is not paid within five business days from
the date the violator has been cited for the violation, the city may recover
the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
            1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
            2.   The use of a collections agency.
            3.   The use of the provisions G.S. Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
            4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
            5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect,
satisfy, or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (3)   Continuing violations. Each day’s continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 1377, § 1, passed 2-9-1984; Ord. No. 20-035, § 2, passed 6-15-2020;
Ord. No. 22-018, § 1, passed 2-10-2022)
Cross-reference:
   Dangerous weapons in parades prohibited, see §
11-2-10
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and restrict firearms and pellet guns, see G.S. 160A-
189, 160A-190
SEC. 12-1-4 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, organization, or private
corporation to place, discard, dispose, or leave any trash, refuse, or garbage
upon any of the following unless such garbage, refuse, or trash is placed in a
designated location or container for removal by a specific garbage or trash
service collector:
      (1)   A sidewalk, street, or highway located in the city.
      (2)   Upon property owned or operated by the city.
      (3)   Upon any private property located in the city without the consent
of the owner, occupant, or lessee thereof.
   (B)   Penalties. A violation of this section may subject the violator to any
or all of the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of $50.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   A violation of any of the provisions of this section shall
subject the violator to a civil penalty by way of a civil ticket in an amount
as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
            2.   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            3.   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
         (b)   Appeals; payment of civil penalty. Unless appealed in accordance
with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, a civil penalty
assessed for a violation of any provision of this section must be paid to and
received by the revenue division of the city's Financial Services Department
within five business days from the date of issuance.
         (c)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with the appeal provisions of this chapter, if full payment for an
assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the revenue division of the
city's Financial Services Department, the city may recover the unpaid civil
penalty by any or all of the following methods:
            1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
            2.   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
            3.   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
            4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
            5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect,
satisfy, or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (3)   Separate offenses. Each violation of this section and each day that
a violation continues is considered a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 23-049, § 2, passed 6-8-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate littering, see G.S. 160A-303.1
SEC. 12-1-5 POSTING OF HANDBILLS REGULATED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to post a handbill or political
campaign sign on or over any property or right-of- way owned or controlled by
the city except: temporary signs may be placed in the right-of-way on
residential property when placed by or with the permission of, the owner or
occupant; and handbills may be placed on city-owned or controlled bulletin
boards which are made available for public use and when the handbills are
placed and maintained in accordance with any rules or regulations adopted
pertaining to those bulletin boards.
      (1)   For purposes of this section, a “handbill” means and includes any
bill, poster, placard, handbill, flyer, painting, sign or other similar object
in any form whatsoever which contains printed or written matter in words,
symbols or pictures, or in any combination thereof.
      (2)   Further, “political campaign sign” means any sign urging the
election or defeat of any candidate seeking any political office, or urging the
passage or defeat of any ballot measure, but does not mean or include any
billboard owned or maintained by a commercial firm or advertising company.
   (B)   The Director of Planning and Development Services and his or her
designees are hereby authorized to remove any handbills or political campaign
signs found posted within the corporate limits when the sign is in violation of
the provisions of this section. The Director of Planning and Development
Services is further authorized to enlist the aid or assistance of any other
department of the city to the end that all such signs shall be expeditiously
removed from public property when posted in violation of this section. When the
Director or his or her designee(s) finds that a political campaign sign has
been posted in violation of this section, he or she shall attempt to contact
the candidate, committee or person responsible for the posting of such sign. If
successful, he or she shall give 24 hours’ advance telephone notice of his or
her intention to remove the sign, indicate the nature of the violation and the
location of the sign. If, after such notification, the illegal sign or signs
remain in violation, the Director or his or her designees shall remove the sign
and dispose of it.
   (C)   In a campaign for political office, the candidate for the office shall
be deemed the person responsible for the posting of political campaign signs,
unless the candidate first notifies the City Clerk and the Director of Planning
and Development Services of another person who shall be responsible. In such
case, the candidate shall provide the name, address, telephone number and
signed consent of the other responsible person.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, the business owner or sponsoring
organization, or the responsible party, shall be liable for the unlawful
posting of handbills, regardless of whether that business owner, sponsoring
organization or responsible party or parties actually posted the material. The
Director of Planning and Development Services or his or her designee may issue
a civil citation to one or more of: the person(s) posting the material; the
business owner(s) or sponsoring organization(s); the responsible party or
parties.
   (E)   Civil penalties. A violation of any of the provisions of this section
shall subject the violator to a civil penalty by way of a civil ticket in the
amount of $100 per day, per occurrence, plus the cost of removal. The cost of
removal shall be a $50 administrative fee, plus all actual labor and machine
costs.
      (1)   Appeals; payment of civil penalty. Unless appealed in accordance
with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, a civil penalty
assessed for a violation of any provision of this section must be paid to and
received by the revenue division of the city's Financial Services Department
within five business days from the date of issuance.
      (2)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with the appeal provisions of this chapter, if full payment for an
assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the revenue division of the
city's Financial Services Department, the city may recover the unpaid civil
penalty by any or all of the following methods:
         (a)   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
         (b)   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
         (c)   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
         (d)   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
         (e)   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect, satisfy,
or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
         Any of these remedies are in addition to the authority contained in
subsection (B) to remove the unlawfully posted handbills or signs.
      (3)   Separate offenses. Each violation of this section and each day that
a violation continues is considered a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 1292, §§ 1, 2, passed 7-14-1983; Ord. No. 2595, §§ 1, 2, passed 2-11-
1993; Ord. No. 00-110, § 1, passed 8-10-2000; Ord. No. 06-75, § 1, passed 8-10-
2006; Ord. 19-045, § 1, passed 9- 12-2019; Ord. No. 23-049, § 3, passed 6-8-
2023)
SEC. 12-1-6 RESERVED.
SEC. 12-1-7 URINATING, DEFECATING IN PUBLIC.
   (A)   Prohibited; exception. It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate
or defecate on any public place, sidewalk, street, alleyway or right-of-way, or
in any public building except in designated water closets or toilet facilities,
or on any private property. Having the written permission of the owner or
person in lawful possession shall constitute an affirmative defense to the
charge of urinating or defecating on private property.
   (B)    Penalties. A violation of this section may subject the violator to
any or all of the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than $100 and not more than $500.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   A violation of any of the provisions of this section shall
subject the violator to a civil penalty by way of a civil ticket in an amount
as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
            2.   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            3.   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
         (b)   Appeals; payment of civil penalty. Unless appealed in accordance
with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, a civil penalty
assessed for a violation of any provision of this section must be paid to and
received by the revenue division of the city's Financial Services Department
within five business days from the date of issuance.
         (c)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with the appeal provisions of this chapter, if full payment for an
assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the revenue division of the
city's Financial Services Department, the city may recover the unpaid civil
penalty by any or all of the following methods:
            1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
            2.   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
            3.   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
            4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
            5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect,
satisfy, or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (3)   Separate offenses. Each violation of this section and each day that
a violation continues is considered a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 1934, § 1, passed 12-8-1988; Ord. No. 23-049, § 5, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 12-1-8 RESERVED.
SEC. 12-1-9 FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to encourage alarm users to
properly use and maintain the operational effectiveness and proper utilization
of alarm systems and to reduce or eliminate false alarms which may unduly
divert law enforcement resources. This section governs systems intended to
summon law enforcement, establishes fees, provides for penalties for
violations, establishes a system of administration, and sets conditions for
suspension.
   (B)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alarm Administrator. A person appointed by the Chief of Police to administer
this section.
Alarm site. The individual location of each alarm system.
Alarm system. Any assembly of equipment, mechanical or electrical, device or
series of devices, including but not limited to systems interconnected with a
radio frequency method such as cellular or private radio signals, which emit or
transmit a remote or local audible, visual or electronic signal indicating an
alarm condition and intended to discourage crime and summon the Greenville
Police Department.
Alarm systems business.  A person or business subject to the licensing
requirements of G.S. Chapter 74D and engaged in selling, leasing, installing,
servicing or monitoring alarm systems within the city.
Alarm user. Any owner, tenant or other person or entity that uses or is in
control of an alarm system within the city.
Automatic dialing device. An alarm system which automatically sends, via
telephone, a prerecorded voice message or coded signal indicating the existence
of an emergency situation.
City. The City of Greenville or its agent.
Commercial premises. Any structure or area which is not defined in this section
as a governmental or residential premises.
Deactivated alarm. An alarm system that has the primary and secondary power and
the telephone line disconnected at the alarm control panel.
False alarm. The activation of an alarm system for any reason other than a
robbery or unauthorized entry, and a subsequent response by the Greenville
Police Department to that alarm site. A “false alarm” does not include:
         (a)   An alarm caused by physical damage to the alarm system as a
result of lightning, wind or other meteorological event, where there is clear
evidence of physical damage to the alarm system;
         (b)   An alarm caused by disconnection of a telephone circuit beyond
the control of the alarm user or the alarm user’s agents, verified by written
communication from the telephone company; or
         (c)   An alarm caused by continuous electrical power disruption in
excess of four hours.
Governmental premises. A structure or area operated by a government entity not
including premises leased to non- governmental entities.
Permit year. The period starting from the date of issuance of a permit and
ending one year from that date.
Police Department. The Greenville Police Department.
Residential premises. Any structure serving as a home, residence or sleeping
place by one person or by two or more persons who maintain a common household
consistent with the provisions of section
9-4-22 of the city Zoning Ordinance.
   (C)   Alarm systems business.  Every alarm systems business shall register
annually with the city. Each registration shall be valid for 12 months. The
alarm systems business shall provide the following information:
      (1)   Name, street address and telephone number of the alarm systems
business; and
      (2)   The alarm systems business license number issued by the North
Carolina Alarm Systems Licensing Board.
   (D)   Requirements for alarm users.
      (1)   Permits and applications.
         (a)   Every alarm user shall annually apply to the Chief of Police for
a nontransferable alarm permit. The permit shall be valid for one permit year
and then expire.
         (b)   The permit application form will be provided by the Police
Department. No other permit application form will be acceptable.
         (c)   Whenever the information provided in the alarm permit
application changes, the alarm user shall provide correct information to the
Police Department within 30 days of the change.
         (d)   If an alarm user has more than one location that has an alarm
system, then a permit is required for each location.
         (e)   Failure to obtain a permit shall be a violation of this section.
      (2)   A fee, as set in the city’s Manual of Fees, shall accompany each
application for an alarm permit for a residential, commercial or governmental
premises. After the initial permit period has expired, each annual renewal
shall be accompanied by a fee, as set in the city’s Manual of Fees.
      (3)   No permit shall be required for a deactivated alarm system.
      (4)   No permit shall be required unless the alarm system results in a
call to the Police Department through an alarm system and alarm systems
business or monitoring service.
      (5)   In the application for permit, the alarm user shall provide the
following information:
         (a)   The name, address and telephone number of the alarm user;
         (b)   The address of the alarm site;
         (c)   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of two persons who
have access to the premises, the ability to reset the alarm and who, upon
request of the Police Department, will respond as a representative of the alarm
user to the alarm site within 30 minutes of notification;
         (d)   The name, address and telephone number of the alarm systems
business, if any;
         (e)   Any dangerous or special conditions present at the alarm site;
and
         (f)   Other information as required by the Police Department.
   (E)   Restrictions.
      (1)   Response to alarm. The alarm user or a representative of the alarm
user listed on the application for permit shall respond to the alarm site
within 30 minutes from the time of notification by the city of the activation
of the alarm, whether false or not. The failure to respond, when directed by
the city, shall be deemed a violation by the alarm user.
      (2)   Deactivation of audible alarms. The alarm user shall deactivate the
alarm within 15 minutes of activation or adjust the alarm to automatically
deactivate within 15 minutes of activation.
      (3)   Automatic dialing devices prohibited. The alarm user shall not
operate an alarm system equipped with an automatic dialing device programmed to
connect directly to the Police Department. Alarm users using an automatic
dialing device dialing device programmed to connect directly to the Police
Department shall be determined to be operating a non-permitted alarm system.
Such use shall be a violation of this section. The Police Department will not
respond to prerecorded messages.
      (4)   Contraindications to permit issuance. No permit will be issued when
a civil penalty for a violation of this section is outstanding, when a reason
for a previous revocation has not been corrected, or if the applicant provides
false information.
   (F)   Leased premises. Where the owner or manager of any residential or
commercial premises makes an alarm system service available to the tenant and
the tenant is to use or control the alarm system, the owner or manager shall:
      (1)   Explain to the tenant the operation of the alarm system;
      (2)   Explain to the tenant the alarm user’s financial responsibilities
for false alarms;
      (3)   Obtain the tenant’s signature on a form in which the tenant
acknowledges having received and understood the information provided in
subsection (D) above; and
      (4)   Furnish a blank alarm permit application to the tenant. The city
shall provide the owner or manager with forms upon request.
   (G)   Enforcement of provisions.
      (1)   Responsibility.  Responsibility for false alarms shall be borne by
the alarm user.
      (2)   Alarm violations. The following civil penalty shall be required for
each false alarm per alarm system within one permit year:
         (a)   First false alarm: no civil penalty;
         (b)   Second false alarm: $25; however, if the alarm operator has a
valid alarm permit, then there is no civil penalty for the second false alarm;
         (c)   Third and fourth false alarms: $25 each;
         (d)   Fifth and sixth false alarms: $50 each;
         (e)   Seventh and above false alarms: $100 each; and
         (f)   In addition to the foregoing fines, an additional civil penalty
for false alarms from a non-permitted alarm system is $200. The additional
civil penalty will be waived if the alarm system is permitted within 45 days of
the false alarm.
      (3)   Other violations.  For any violation of the provisions of this
section other than a false alarm, a violator shall be subject to a civil
penalty in the amount of $50.
      (4)   Awareness class. The city may offer an alarm awareness class to
alarm users. Information on the opportunity to attend an alarm awareness class
will be provided to alarm users after the first false alarm in a permit year.
      (5)   Notice of false alarm. After responding to an alarm and determining
that the alarm was false, the city shall leave written notice at the alarm site
that there was a false alarm. The notice shall include the identity of the
officer and time of response.
      (6)   Disconnected alarm.  The alarm user shall not be liable for a false
alarm that occurs at an alarm site for which the alarm user has previously
given a written disconnection notice to the alarm systems business or
monitoring service.
      (7)   Payment of civil penalties. Civil penalties shall be paid within 30
days from the date of the citation. Violators shall be issued a written
citation which must be paid within 30 days of the citation date. If not paid
within the 30-day period, then an additional $50 delinquency charge shall be
assessed for each 30-day period thereafter upon nonpayment until paid in full.
The City Attorney, or designee, is authorized to file suit on behalf of the
city to collect any unpaid citations and any delinquency charge, and the Chief
of Police, or his or her designee, is authorized to verify and sign complaints
on behalf of the city in such suits. A police officer or other employee
authorized by the City Manager to enforce the false alarm ordinances may issue
a citation for violations of this chapter. If litigation is required to recover
the penalties and delinquency charges, the City Attorney or designee in
addition to the penalties and delinquency charges may recover reasonable
attorneys’ fees and other costs incurred in bringing the action and collecting
the judgment.
      (8)   Equitable remedy. The city may enforce the provisions of this
section by applying to a court of competent jurisdiction for an injunction,
abatement order or any other appropriate equitable remedy.
      (9)   Noncriminal violation. A violation of any of the provisions of this
section shall not constitute a misdemeanor or infraction punishable pursuant to
G.S. 14-4.
(Ord. No. 08-110, § 1, passed 10-9-2008)
(H) Suspension, revocation or reinstatement of alarm permit.
      (1)   In addition to the imposition of civil penalties as provided for in
this section, the eighth false alarm response in a permit year shall result in
a suspension of the alarm permit, which remains effective until such time as:
         (a)   The alarm user has taken action to remedy the causes of the
false alarms; and
         (b)   The Chief of Police has reinstated the permit.
      (2)   A civil penalty unpaid in excess of 30 days shall result in a
suspension of the alarm permit.
      (3)   The Chief of Police may revoke an alarm permit if it is determined
that:
         (a)   There is a false statement of a material matter in the permit
application; or
         (b)   Ten or more false alarms have been received by the city from the
alarm site within a permit year.
      (4)   An alarm user whose alarm permit has been revoked may be issued a
new permit if the alarm user:
         (a)   Submits an updated application and pays a permit fee, as set in
the city’s Manual of Fees; and
         (b)   Pays all civil penalties and delinquency charges issued to the
alarm user under this section.
      (5)   The city shall notify the alarm user of a suspension, revocation or
reinstatement.
   (I)   Appeals.
      (1)   Assessments of civil penalties and other enforcement decisions made
under this section may be appealed by filing a written notice of appeal with
the Alarm Administrator within 20 days after the date of notification of the
assessment of civil penalties or other enforcement decision (suspension or
revocation). The failure to give notice of appeal within this time period shall
constitute a waiver of the right to contest the assessment of penalties or
other enforcement decision. Proper notification of the Alarm Administrator
shall stay the imposition of a penalty, suspension or revocation until
adjudication. The Alarm Administrator shall conduct an informal hearing and
consider evidence presented by the alarm user. Faulty or overly sensitive
equipment, user error or failure to renew the alarm permit shall not be
sufficient basis to grant an appeal.
      (2)   If the alarm user is not satisfied with the ruling of the Alarm
Administrator, then the alarm user may appeal to the Alarm Appeal Board as
constituted in accordance with the provisions of subsection (I)(4) below. The
request for an appeal to the Alarm Appeal Board must be provided to the Alarm
Administrator, on a form provided by the city, within 20 days from the date of
the Alarm Administrator’s ruling. Proper notification shall stay the imposition
of a penalty, suspension or revocation until adjudication. The Alarm Appeal
Board shall conduct a hearing and consider evidence presented by the alarm user
and by other interested persons. Faulty or overly sensitive equipment, user
error or failure to renew the alarm permit shall not be sufficient basis to
grant an appeal. The Alarm Appeal Board shall make a decision based on the
preponderance of the evidence standard and provide a decision within 30 days.
The decision of the Alarm Appeal Board is the final administrative remedy as to
the city.
      (3)   The Alarm Appeal Board shall review an appeal from the assessment
of civil penalties or other enforcement decisions using a preponderance of the
evidence standard. Notwithstanding a determination that the preponderance of
the evidence supports the assessment of civil penalties or other enforcement
decision, the Alarm Appeal Board shall have the discretion to dismiss or reduce
civil penalties or reverse any other enforcement decision where warranted.
      (4)   The Alarm Appeal Board shall be constituted of the following three
members: a member of the Police Department designated by the Chief of Police, a
person associated with an alarm system business designated by the City Manager
from nominations received from alarm system businesses, and a person designated
by the City Manager from nominations received by the Neighborhood Advisory
Council. In the event nominations are not received from the alarm system
businesses or the Neighborhood Advisory Council or the City Manager determines
to not designate a member from the nominations received, the City Manager shall
designate a person to serve on the Alarm Appeal Board until a nomination is
received by the City Manager and the person is designated by the City Manager
as a member of the Alarm Appeal Board. Members of the Alarm Appeal Board will
be designated for a term consisting of one calendar year from January to
December, members may serve unlimited consecutive terms, and a vacancy shall be
filled for the unexpired term.
(Ord. No. 08-110, § 2, passed 10-9-2008)
   (J)   No public duty. The permitting of an alarm system is not intended to
nor will it create a contract, duty or obligation, either expressed or implied,
of response. Any and all liability and consequential damage resulting from the
failure to respond to a notification is hereby disclaimed and governmental
immunity as provided by law is retained. By registering the alarm system, the
alarm user acknowledges that law enforcement response may be based on factors
such as availability of law enforcement units, priority of calls, weather
conditions, traffic conditions, emergency conditions and staffing levels.
(Ord. No. 07-53, passed 5-10-2007)
Editor’s note:
   This section was rewritten in its entirety on May 10, 2007 by Ord. No. 07-
53, with an effective date of July 1, 2007.
SEC. 12-1-10 RESERVED.
SEC. 12-1-11 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY IN CITY-OWNED PARKING LOT AND TRESPASS UPON
PRIVATELY OWNED PARKING LOT.
   (A)   City-owned parking lot. It shall be unlawful for any person to
assemble with one or more other persons on a city-owned or controlled parking
lot except for the purpose of lawfully parking a vehicle in the lot. It shall
not be a violation of this section to lawfully park a vehicle in a city parking
lot and leave the lot without delay, or go upon a city parking lot and without
delay proceed to a lawfully parked vehicle and then leave.
   (B)   Constitutional exception. The prohibition in subsection (A) above
shall not apply to a congregation of persons pursuant to any lawfully issued
permit for a parade, demonstration, picketing or other event or congregation
protected under the Constitution of the United States or this state.
   (C)   City parking lot defined. The term “city parking lot,” as used in this
section, shall mean any parking lot owned or controlled by the city and
maintained for public or public and leased space parking.
   (D)   Privately owned parking lot. It shall be unlawful for any person to
enter or remain upon any privately owned parking lot or publicly owned lot
owned by a governmental entity other than the city after normal working hours
and on weekends when the owner, lessee or authorized agent has posted a sign or
signs clearly stating the prohibition. The sign(s) shall be placed in a
position where it is clearly visible and shall contain the following language:
NO PARKING OR TRESPASSING BETWEEN
________P.M. and ________A.M.
VIOLATORS WILL BE PROSECUTED
Signs may be obtained from the Engineering Department of the city or shall meet
the specifications for those signs as directed by the Director of Engineering
for the city.
   (E)   Exceptions. The prohibitions in subsections (A) and (D) shall not
apply to:
      (1)   Temporary entrance to the parking lot in an emergency or to avoid
an accident;
      (2)   Entrance by police officers or city officials in the course of
duty;
      (3)   Entrance by fire, ambulance and other emergency personnel and
equipment, in the course of duty;
      (4)   Turning around to travel on the same street in the opposite
direction;
      (5)   Entrance by the owner, occupant or the employees and agents of the
owners or occupant; or
      (6)   The congregation of persons to observe a parade or publicly
sponsored or sanctioned event (such as a festival, celebration, fireworks
display or other similar event).
   (F)   Special events. The owner or person in charge of any privately owned
parking lot may grant temporary permission to use the lot during any specified
hours, when parking or trespassing is normally prohibited, by posting temporary
signs or posters to that effect. The owner or person in charge shall notify the
Police Department of any such temporary permission.
   (G)   Penalties. A violation of this section may subject the violator to any
or all of the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than $100 and not more than $500.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   A violation of any of the provisions of this section shall
subject the violator to a civil penalty by way of a civil ticket in an amount
as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
            2.   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            3.   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
         (b)   Appeals; payment of civil penalty. Unless appealed in accordance
with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, a civil penalty
assessed for a violation of any provision of this section must be paid to and
received by the revenue division of the city's Financial Services Department
within five business days from the date of issuance.
         (c)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with the appeal provisions of this chapter, if full payment for an
assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the revenue division of the
city's Financial Services Department, the city may recover the unpaid civil
penalty by any or all of the following methods:
            1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
            2.   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
            3.   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
            4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
            5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect,
satisfy, or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (3)   Separate offenses. Each violation of this section and each day that
a violation continues is considered a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 2050, § 1, passed - - ; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023; Ord.
No. 23-049, § 7, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 12-1-12 “AGGRESSIVE PANHANDLING” WITHIN THE CITY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions.
Aggressive manner. For the purposes of this section, any of the following:
         (a)   To approach, speak to or follow any person(s) in such a manner
that would cause a reasonable person to fear bodily harm or the commission of a
criminal act upon the person, or upon the property in the person’s immediate
possession;
         (b)   To touch another person(s) without his or her consent in the
course of asking for alms;
         (c)   To continuously ask, beg or solicit for alms from a person(s)
after the person(s) has responded in a negative manner; or
         (d)   To intentionally block or interfere with the safe or free
passage of a person(s) by any means up to and including causing a person(s) to
take evasive action to avoid physical contact.
To ask, beg or solicit alms. For the purpose of this section, “asking, begging
or soliciting alms” includes any spoken, written, printed or other such means
conducted with the purpose of obtaining an immediate donation of money or other
thing of value.
   (B)   Prohibited acts.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ask, beg or solicit alms,
including money and other items of value, in an aggressive manner in any place
open to the general public including sidewalks, streets, alleys, driveways,
plazas, parking lots, parks, buildings, doorways and entrances to buildings,
and the groundways which enclose buildings.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ask, beg or solicit alms, in
an aggressive manner, in any public transportation vehicle, or at any bus stop.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ask, beg or solicit alms
from any operator or occupant of a motor vehicle that is in traffic on a public
street.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ask, beg or solicit alms
from any operator or occupant of a motor vehicle on a public street in exchange
for the reservation or direction to a public parking space.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ask, beg or solicit alms in
exchange for cleaning (including windows), protecting, watching, washing,
repairing, painting a motor vehicle that is in traffic or parked on a public
street.
      (6)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ask, beg or solicit alms on
private property or residential property, without first obtaining permission
from the owner or occupant of the property.
   (C)   Permitted activity. All acts authorized as an exercise of a person’s
constitutional right to picket, protest or speak, and acts that are permitted
by a permit issued by the city shall not constitute unlawful activity under
this section.
   (D)   Penalties. A violation of this section may subject the violator to any
or all of the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than $100 and not more than $500.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   A violation of any of the provisions of this section shall
subject the violator to a civil penalty by way of a civil ticket in an amount
as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
            2.   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            3.   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
         (b)   Appeals; payment of civil penalty. Unless appealed in accordance
with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, a civil penalty
assessed for a violation of any provision of this section must be paid to and
received by the revenue division of the city's Financial Services Department
within five business days from the date of issuance.
         (c)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with the appeal provisions of this chapter, if full payment for an
assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the revenue division of the
city's Financial Services Department, the city may recover the unpaid civil
penalty by any or all of the following methods:
            1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
            2.   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
            3.   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
            4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
            5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect,
satisfy, or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (3)   Separate offenses. Each violation of this section and each day that
a violation continues is considered a separate offense.
      (4)   Injunctive relief authorized.  The City Attorney is authorized to
seek injunctive relief against repeat violators of this section.
(Ord. No. 2708, § 1, passed 9-16-1993; Ord. No. 23-049, § 8, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 12-1-13 SMOKING REGULATED IN MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   Definitions. “Smoking” shall mean the inhaling, exhaling, burning or
carrying of a lighted pipe, cigar, cigarette or other combustible tobacco
product.
   (B)   Smoking prohibited in municipal buildings. It shall be unlawful for
any person to smoke in any building or facility or portion of a building or
facility now or hereafter owned, leased, operated, occupied, managed or
controlled by the city or the Greenville Utilities Commission, except in
specially designated smoking areas. The City Manager or the General Manager of
the Greenville Utilities Commission shall have the authority to designate
smoking areas within each city or GUC building or facility respectively. An
area within each building or facility may be designated as a smoking area only
if the ventilation of such area is sufficient, adverse impact on municipal
employees and members of the public is minimal, and no fire or safety hazard
will be created by smoking in such area.
   (C)   Filtration devices. The City Manager and the Greenville Utilities
Commission General Manager are authorized to require the use of appropriate
filtration devices in areas where smoking is allowed. Filtration devices must
be approved as meeting minimum performance criteria established by the City
Manager or the Greenville Utilities Commission General Manager. In determining
whether or where filtration devices must be used, the City Manager or
Greenville Utilities Commission General Manager shall consider the
effectiveness of existing HVAC equipment, the availability and practicality of
natural ventilation, and the function and volume of use of the area or areas
involved.
   (D)   Penalties. A violation of this section may subject the violator to any
or all of the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Continuing to smoke in violation of this section
constitutes an infraction, and the person committing the infraction may be
punished by a fine of not more than $50. Conviction of an infraction under this
section has no consequence other than payment of a penalty. A person smoking in
violation of this subsection may not be assessed court costs.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   A violation of any of the provisions of this section shall
subject the violator to a civil penalty by way of a civil ticket in an amount
as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
            2.   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            3.   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
         (b)   Appeals; payment of civil penalty. Unless appealed in accordance
with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, a civil penalty
assessed for a violation of any provision of this section must be paid to and
received by the revenue division of the city's Financial Services Department
within five business days from the date of issuance.
         (c)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with the appeal provisions of this chapter, if full payment for an
assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the revenue division of the
city's Financial Services Department, the city may recover the unpaid civil
penalty by any or all of the following methods:
            1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
            2.   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
            3.   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
            4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
            5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect,
satisfy, or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (3)   Separate offenses. Each violation of this section and each day that
a violation continues is considered a separate offense.
      (4)   In addition to the penalties stated in subsections (D)(1) and (D)
(2) above, a violation of this section by a city or GUC employee shall subject
the employee to disciplinary action under the respective personnel policies of
the city or GUC.
      (5)   The Chief of Police, the City Manager, the GUC General Manager, or
their designees are authorized to issue civil citations for violations of
subsection (D)(2) above.
   (E)   Conflict of laws. If any portion of this section or the enforcement
thereof is found to be preempted by state or federal law, such preemption shall
not operate to invalidate the rest of the section and the same shall remain in
full force and effect.
(Ord. No. 2729, § 1, passed 10-14-1993; Ord. No. 23-049, § 9, passed 6-8-2023)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. No. 2729, adopted Oct. 14, 1993, added provisions designated as § 12-1-
12. Inasmuch as Ord. No. 2078, adopted Sept. 16, 1993, had added provisions
designated as § 12-1-12, the provisions of Ord. No. 2729 have been redesignated
as § 12-1-13 at the discretion of the editor.
Editor’s note:
   Ord. No. 2729, adopted Oct. 14, 1993, added provisions designated as § 12-1-
12. Inasmuch as Ord. No. 2078, adopted Sept. 16, 1993, had added provisions
designated as § 12-1-12, the provisions of Ord. No. 2729 have been redesignated
as §
12-1-13 at the discretion of the editor.
SEC. 12-1-14 CONCEALED HANDGUNS PROHIBITED; LOCAL GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS,
GROUNDS, AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:
      (1)   City. City of Greenville.
      (2)   Local government building. A building, including any portion
thereof owned, leased, operated, managed, or controlled by the city and, to the
extent that the provisions of G.S. 14-415.11(c)(8) do not apply, a building,
including any portion thereof owned, leased, operated, managed, or controlled
by any of the following:
         (a)   The Pitt-Greenville Airport or Pitt-Greenville Airport
Authority.
         (b)   The Sheppard Memorial Library or Sheppard Memorial Library Board
of Trustees.
         (c)   The Greenville Utilities Commission or GUC.
      (3)   Recreational facilities. Only those recreational facilities owned,
leased, operated, managed, or controlled by the city as follows:
         (a)   An athletic field, including any appurtenant facilities such as
restrooms, during an organized athletic event if the field had been scheduled
for use with the city or other office responsible for operation of the park or
recreational area.
         (b)   A swimming pool, including any appurtenant facilities used for
dressing, storage of personal items, or other uses relating to the swimming
pool.
         (c)   A facility used for athletic events, including, but not limited
to, a gymnasium.
         Recreational facilities do not include any greenway, designated biking
or walking path, an area that is customarily used as a walkway or bike path
although not specifically designated for such use, open areas or fields where
athletic events may occur unless the area qualifies as an "athletic field" as
herein defined in subsection (2)(a) herein, and any other area that is not
specifically described in subsection (2) herein.
   (B)   Prohibition in local government buildings and appurtenant premises.
The carrying of a concealed handgun is prohibited, by the posting of signs
approved indicating that the carrying of a concealed handgun is prohibited, in
or on each local government building and the appurtenant premises to the local
government building. The City Manager shall approve or cause to be posted
appropriate signs in
   (C)   Prohibition in recreational facilities. The carrying of a concealed
handgun is prohibited, by the posting of signs indicating that the carrying of
a concealed handgun is prohibited, in or on the following specifically
identified recreational facilities:
      (1)   The recreational facilities at Andrew A. Best Freedom Park at 315
Oakdale Road;
      (2)   The recreational facilities at the Bradford Creek Golf Course at
4950 Old Pactolus Road;
      (3)   The recreational facilities at the Bradford Creek Soccer Complex at
4523 Old Pactolus Road;
      (4)   The recreational facilities at the Greenville Community Pool at
2113 Myrtle Avenue;
      (5)   The recreational facilities at the Greenville Aquatics and Fitness
Center at 921 Staton Road;
      (6)   The recreational facilities at Drew Steele Center, Elm Street
Center, tennis courts, Stallings Stadium baseball field, Sara Vaughn Field of
Dreams baseball field, shuffleboard courts, horseshoe pits and bocce courts at
Elm Street Park at 1058 and 1055 South Elm Street;
      (7)   The recreational facilities at Evans Park at 625 West Arlington
Blvd;
      (8)   The recreational facilities at Greenfield Terrace Park at 120 Park
Access Road;
      (9)   The recreational facilities at Guy Smith Stadium and at Guy Smith
Park at 1000 Moye Boulevard;
      (10)   The recreational facilities at the Boyd Lee Center at H. Boyd Lee
Park at 5184 Corey Road;
      (11)   The recreational facilities at Jaycee Park at 2000 Cedar Lane;
      (12)   The recreational facilities at Matthew Lewis Park at West
Meadowbrook at 900 Legion Street;
      (13)   The recreational facilities at the Perkins complex at 1703 E. 14th
Street;
      (14)   The recreational facilities at River Park North at 1000 Mumford
Road;
      (15)   The recreational facilities at the South Greenville Recreation
Center and at South Greenville Park at 851 Howell Street;
      (16)   The recreational facilities at the Sports Connection at 1701 E.
14th Street;
      (17)   The recreational facilities at the Eppes Recreation Center and at
Thomas Foreman Park at 400 Nash Street;
      (18)   The recreational facilities at Westhaven Park on Cedarhurst Drive;
and
      (19)   The recreational facilities at Woodlawn Park on Woodlawn Avenue.
   (D)   Posting of signs required. The signs as defined in subsections (B) and
(C) of this section shall be approved by the City Manager and upon consultation
with appropriate managers and staff shall be posted in a manner so as to be
visible to the general public prior to entering the building, appurtenant
premises, or recreational facilities as may be applicable.
   (E)   Penalties. A violation of subsections (B) or (C) may subject the
violator to any or all of the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than $100 and not more than $500.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   A violation of any of the provisions of this section shall
subject the violator to a civil penalty by way of a civil ticket in an amount
as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
            2.   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation.  A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            3.   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
         (b)   Appeals; payment of civil penalty. Unless appealed in accordance
with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, a civil penalty
assessed for a violation of any provision of this section must be paid to and
received by the revenue division of the city's Financial Services Department
within five business days from the date of issuance.
         (c)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with the appeal provisions of this chapter, if full payment for an
assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the revenue division of the
city's Financial Services Department, the city may recover the unpaid civil
penalty by any or all of the following methods:
            1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
            2.   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
            3.   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
            4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
            5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect,
satisfy, or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (3)   Separate offenses. Each violation of this section and each day that
a violation continues is considered a separate offense.
   (F)   Persons excepted. The provisions of this section shall not apply to
the carrying of a concealed handgun by those persons enumerated in G.S. § 14-
269(b).
   (G)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, upon obtaining
the appropriate permit required by law, the possession of a concealed handgun
shall be permitted at a convention center owned, leased, managed, operated, or
controlled by the city, by vendors or exhibitors at an event where the display,
sale. or exhibition of handguns is permitted or by individuals who have or
possess a handgun for the sole purpose of sale or trade at an event where the
display, sale, or exhibition of handguns is permitted. Such persons shall be
required to display their permit upon entrance into the convention center and
have the handgun checked, inspected, and disabled upon entrance into the
convention center.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, upon obtaining
the appropriate permit required by law, the possession of a concealed handgun
shall be permitted provided that the concealed handgun permittee secures the
handgun in a locked vehicle within the trunk, glove box, or other enclosed
compartment or area within or on the motor vehicle.
(Ord. No. 11-065, § 1, passed 11-14-2011; Ord. 13-044, § 1, passed 9-12-2013;
Ord. No. 23-049, § 10, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 12-1-15 RESERVED.
SEC. 12-1-16 RESERVED.
SEC. 12-1-17 RESERVED.
SEC. 12-1-18 OBSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
Obstruct/obstruction. Blocking, narrowing or otherwise impeding or in any
manner contributing to the blocking, narrowing or impeding of the safe flow of
pedestrian travel.
Sidewalk. That portion of a public street between the curblines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct any
sidewalk.
   (C)   Penalties. Any violation of the provisions of this section shall
subject the offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $50. Violators shall
be issued a written citation, which must be paid within 72 hours. If the person
fails to pay the civil penalty within 72 hours, the city may recover the
penalty including all costs and attorneys’ fees by filing a civil action in the
general court of justice in the nature of a suit to collect a debt.
(Ord. No. 00-109, § 1, passed 8-10-2000; Ord. No. 10-28, § 1, 4-5-2010)
SEC. 12-1-19 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   No person shall cause, suffer, allow or permit open burning of refuse
or other combustible materials, including, for illustrative purposes only and
not as a complete or exhaustive list, leaves, tree branches, yard trimmings,
construction materials or scrap materials.
   (B)   The prohibition contained in this section does not include outdoor
cooking on commercially obtained or specifically constructed containers for
cooking food such as barbeque grills, commercially obtained outdoor lighting
such as “tiki torches,” or use of chimineas.
   (C)   The prohibition contained in this section does not include open
burning allowed by open burning permits issued by the Greenville Fire Rescue
Department for bonfires, open burning permits issued by the Greenville Fire
Rescue Department, with the coordination and consent of the United States
Forestry Service, for open burning in conjunction with land development, and
open burning permits for flag retirement ceremonies conducted by a nonprofit
veterans organization.. Any permit is subject to revocation when the permit
holder fails to comply with the conditions stated in the permit, the reasons
for the permit have changed or the conditions including weather have changed.
   (D)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   A violation of any of the provisions of this section shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty by way of a civil ticket in an amount as
follows:
         (a)   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
         (b)   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
         (c)   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
      (2)   Appeals; payment of civil penalty. Unless appealed in accordance
with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, a civil penalty
assessed for a violation of any provision of this section must be paid to and
received by the revenue division of the city's Financial Services Department
within five business days from the date of issuance.
      (3)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with the appeal provisions of this chapter, if full payment for an
assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the revenue division of the
city's Financial Services Department, the city may recover the unpaid civil
penalty by any or all of the following methods:
         (a)   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
         (b)   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
         (c)   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
         (d)   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
         (e)   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect, satisfy,
or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (4)   Separate offenses. Each violation of this section and each day that
a violation continues is considered a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 14-064, 1, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. No. 23-049, § 12, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 12-1-20 BOWS AND ARROWS AND CROSSBOWS.
    (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any bow and arrow or
crossbow within the city unless carried out under the following restrictions
and conditions:
      (1)   Any arrow or other projectile discharged shall only be aimed at a
target backed by a backstop measuring at least six feet high and six feet wide
and of sufficient thickness to stop the passage of the arrow or other
projectile. In no event shall the thickness of the backstop be less than one
inch. A wall of a building located upon the lot upon which the discharge takes
place may serve as the backstop, provided that the wall has at least the size
and thickness required by this subsection. The target shall be located at the
mid-point of the width of the backstop and the base of the target shall be at
ground level so that the trajectory of the arrow or other projectile is
downward. The target and the backstop shall be located upon property which is
owned or leased by the person discharging the arrow or other projectile or a
person who has been granted written permission to discharge an arrow or other
projectile on the property by the person who owns or leases the property.
      (2)   Anyone under the age of 16 years may discharge a bow and arrow or a
crossbow only when supervised by someone who is at least 21 years of age and
who is present at all times during the discharge. The person supervising is
responsible for ensuring compliance with the provisions of subsection (A).
      (3)   No arrow or other projectile discharged shall be tipped with a
broadhead or hunting point. Only target or field points may be used.
      (4)   No arrow or other projectile discharged shall cross into, over or
onto any property other than the property upon which the person discharging the
arrow or other projectile, the target and the backstop are located unless
written permission is provided by the owner or person leasing the property.
   (B)   The provisions of subsection (A) shall not apply to the discharge of a
bow and arrow or crossbow at archery ranges established by the city, East
Carolina University, Pitt Community College or the Pitt County School system or
other comparable private school or at an archery range which has been permitted
for an archery range in accordance with the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance
of Greenville, North Carolina. No arrow or other projectile discharged at an
archery range shall be tipped with a broadhead or hunting point. Only target or
field points may be used.
   (C)   The provisions of subsection (A) shall not apply to a bow and arrow or
crossbow when discharging an arrow or other projectile made of foam.
   (D)   The provisions of subsection (A) shall not apply when within a
Recreational Sport/Hunting District as specified in
Title 9, Chapter 4 of the City Code entitled Zoning, specifically Article L
(see Section
9-4-200.10).
   (E)   Civil penalties.   
      (1)   A violation of any of the provisions of this section shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty by way of a civil ticket in an amount as
follows:
         (a)   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
         (b)   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
         (c)   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
      (2)   Appeals; payment of civil penalty. Unless appealed in accordance
with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, a civil penalty
assessed for a violation of any provision of this section must be paid to and
received by the revenue division of the city's Financial Services Department
within five business days from the date of issuance.
      (3)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with the appeal provisions of this chapter, if full payment for an
assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the revenue division of the
city's Financial Services Department, the city may recover the unpaid civil
penalty by any or all of the following methods:
         (a)   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
         (b)   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
         (c)   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
         (d)   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
         (e)   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect, satisfy,
or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (4)   Separate offenses. Each violation of this section and each day that
a violation continues is considered a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 06-107, § 1, passed 11-06-2006; Ord. No. 20-035, § 3, passed 6-15-
2020; Ord. No. 23- 049, § 13, passed 6-8-2023)
CHAPTER 2: ANIMALS
Section
   
12-2-1   Definitions
   
12-2-2   Authority; creation of Division of Animal Protective Services;
composition; scope of chapter
   
12-2-3   Duties of Division
   
12-2-4   Enforcement powers; APS officer badges; storage and use of
tranquilizer guns
   
12-2-5   Right of APS officers to enter for inspection
   
12-2-6   Duty of APS officers and police officers to seize and impound certain
animals
   
12-2-7   Impoundment and disposition of animals to prevent abuse; involuntary
absence of owner
   
12-2-8   Records of impounded animals
   
12-2-9   Keeping stray animals
   
12-2-10   Impoundment, reclamation, and disposition of animals; generally
   
12-2-11   Reclamation fees
   
12-2-12   Certain animals prohibited
   
12-2-13   Inherently dangerous animals
   
12-2-14   Determinations
   
12-2-15   Dangerous animals and vicious animals
   
12-2-16   Appeals of determinations
   
12-2-17   Exotic animals
   
12-2-18   Tethering
   
12-2-19   Cruelty to animals
   
12-2-20   Adequate food, shade, shelter, and water
   
12-2-21   Reserved
   
12-2-22   Duty of drivers to give notice of injury to domesticated animal
   
12-2-23   Staking out, herding, or grazing animals on unenclosed premises
   
12-2-24   Setting animals free for chase
   
12-2-25   Keeping or displaying animals generally; conduct of wholesale poultry
yards
   
12-2-26   Sale of fowl, or rabbits under certain conditions; coloring fowl or
rabbits
   
12-2-27   Keeping swine
   
12-2-28   Keeping fowl
   
12-2-29   Maintenance of stables and pens
   
12-2-30   Urban beekeeping
   
12-2-31   Dead domesticated animals
   
12-2-32   Inoculation of animals generally
   
12-2-33   Feral cat trap-neuter-return program; TNR program
   
12-2-34   Animal traps available to the public
   
12-2-35   Animal bite notification; bites unlawful
   
12-2-36   Summary destruction of animals that cannot be seized by reasonable
means
   
12-2-37   Public nuisances
   
12-2-38   Restraint of animals
   
12-2-39   Defecation
   
12-2-40   Reserved
   
12-2-41   Interference
   
12-2-42   Prohibition against giveaways in public places
   
12-2-43   Bird sanctuary
Cross-reference:
   Animals turned out into cemeteries, see §
6-4-4
   Regulation of parades, see
Title 11, Chapter 2
Editor’s note:
   Section 1 of Ord. No. 22-044, adopted May 23, 2022, deleted former Ch. 2 in
its entirety and enacted a new Ch. 2 in lieu thereof.
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of domestic animals, see G.S. 160A-186
SEC. 12-2-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions, regardless of
capitalization, shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   Adequate food. The provision, at suitable intervals, of a quantity of
wholesome foodstuff suitable for the species and age of the animal, sufficient
to maintain a reasonable level of nutrition in an animal. Such foodstuff shall
be served in a sanitized receptacle, dish, or container.
   Adequate shade. In addition to an adequate shelter structure, one or more
separate outside areas of shade that are large enough to shield all of the
animals therein at one time from the direct rays of the sun.
   Adequate shelter. An enclosure sufficient to provide shelter from the
extremes of weather, and a means to remain cool, dry, and comfortable. Adequate
shelter shall consist of at least three solid sides, a roof, and a floor to be
ventilated with sufficient room for the animal to move about freely and lie
down comfortably.
   Adequate water. The provision of, or constant access to, a supply of clean
and fresh potable water.
   Animal. Any living vertebrate in the classes Amphibia, Reptilia, Aves, and
Mammalia except human beings.
   Animal Protective Services; APS; or Division. The Division of Animal
Protective Services of the City.
   APS Supervisor. An APS officer appointed by the City Manager to serve as
head of the Division, and where appropriate, his or her designee, charged with
the responsibility and authority to operate the Division.
   APS Officer. An officer of the Division employed by the city, whose
responsibility includes animal control and the enforcement of this chapter.
   Attack. Any action by an animal upon a person or domesticated animal which
includes but is not limited to any injury, biting, tearing of clothing, or act
causing fearful flight to escape by the person or other animal, or any other
act which could reasonably cause any injury to a person or animal.
   Bite. When the teeth of an animal scratches or breaks the skin of another
animal or a person.
   Chief of Police. The Chief of Police of the Greenville Police Department or
designee.
   City. The City of Greenville.
   Dangerous animal.
      (1)   Any animal that:
         (a)   Without provocation has killed or inflicted severe injury,
through bite or otherwise, on a person; or
         (b)   Has killed or inflicted severe injury upon a domestic animal
when running at large in violation of this chapter or upon any public or
private dog park; or
         (c)   Approached a person when not on the owner's real property in a
terrorizing manner in an apparent attitude of attack; or
         (d)   Has previously been deemed, declared, or ruled as a dangerous
animal, potentially dangerous animal, or a substantially similarly classified
or designated animal, by any lawful agency, person, board, jurisdiction, or
authority.
      (2)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose
of animal fighting, or any animal trained for animal fighting.
   Domesticated animal. An animal such as is accustomed to live in or about the
habitation of humans, including but not limited to cats, cattle, dogs, fowl,
horses, and sheep. This definition does not include domesticated wild animals.
   Eartipped or eartipping. The removal of 1/4-inch tip of a cat's left ear,
performed while the cat is under anesthesia, to identify the cat as being
sterilized, lawfully vaccinated against rabies, and part of a TNR Colony.
   Electronic Implant. Method of permanent identification of an animal that may
be electronically read.
   Feral. An animal that is not socialized.
   Heat; in heat. A female animal in the erotic stage of copulation or in
estrus.
   Impound; impounded; impoundment. The placement of an animal into the care,
custody, and control of the Division, any authorized representative thereof, or
any person or entity duly authorized by this chapter or City Council or by
state law for this purpose.
   Inherently dangerous animal. This term shall apply to any live member of the
following animals including crossbreeds or hybrids thereof, which, due to their
inherent nature, may be considered dangerous to humans and which include:
      (1)   Canidae. Any member of the dog (canid) family not customarily
domesticated by humans, including wolfs and coyotes but not including domestic
dogs (Canis familiaris);
      (2)   Felidae. Any member of the cat family weighing over 15 pounds not
customarily domesticated by humans, but not including, domestic cats (Fells
catus);
      (3)   Ursidae. Any member of the bear family;
      (4)   Nonhuman primates; and
      (5)   Crocodillia, such as crocodiles, alligators, and caiman.
   Inoculated or inoculation against rabies. The vaccination or inoculation of
a dog, cat, or ferret in accordance with Chapter 130A, Article 6, Part 6 of the
North Carolina General Statutes.
   Livestock. Any and all animals domesticated or non-domesticated commonly
found on a farm, to include but not be limited to cattle (of any type), horses,
goats, and sheep but not including any animal otherwise regulated in this
chapter.
   Manual of fees. The fee schedule approved and adopted by the Greenville City
Council which is periodically updated and lists sales and services provided by
the City of Greenville.
   Owner or animal owner. Any person, group of persons, or any entity owning,
possessing, keeping, having charge of, sheltering, feeding, harboring, taking
care of, having care, custody, or control of, or acting as custodian of,
however temporarily, any animal covered by this chapter. A person having
temporary custody or possession of an animal for the sole purpose of turning
over such animal to the Division or any law enforcement officer shall not be
deemed the owner of the animal.
   Owner's real property. Any real property owned or leased by the animal
owner, not including any public right-of-way or a common area of a condominium,
apartment complex, or townhouse development.
   Person. An individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company,
or organization of any kind.
   Physical restraint. Any animal confined within the passenger area of a motor
vehicle, or confined within the owner's real property, or otherwise
sufficiently secured and restrained by leash, lead, cage, bridle, or similarly
effective device allowing the animal to be controlled. For purposes of this
definition passenger area of a motor vehicle means the area designed to seat
the driver and passengers and specifically excludes any fully unenclosed or
open area behind the last upright back seat of a motor vehicle. For purposes of
this chapter, voice command or electric collar is not recognized as sufficient
physical restraint.
   Police Department. The Greenville Police Department.
   Police officers. Sworn law enforcement officers employed by the Greenville
Police Department.
   Provocation. Conduct or actions on the part of any person or animal that is
likely to arouse a violent or aggressive response by an animal. This term does
not include any action on the part of an individual or animal that pertains to
reasonable efforts of self-defense.
   Public nuisance animal. Any animal is declared by City Council to be a
public nuisance if the animal is:
      (1)   Frequently or excessively making any disturbing noise including but
not limited to howling, yelping, or unprovoked barking; or
      (2)   Chasing, snapping at, or attacking a pedestrian, bicyclist, or any
other vehicle; or
      (3)   Turning over or scattering garbage containers or damaging any
timber, garden, crops, vegetables, plants, lands, or any other matter or thing
growing or being thereon; or
      (4)   By virtue of number or type, is offensive or dangerous to the
public health, safety, or welfare; or
      (5)   Destructive to real or personal property other than that of the
owner.
   Running at large. Any animal off the owner's real property and not under
sufficient physical restraint. This definition does not apply to any areas in
city parks or upon city property that have been specifically designated by City
Council as dog exercise and play areas. Any such areas so designated shall be
securely separated from the rest of the park or property by a physical barrier
sufficient to prevent any animal from leaving the designated area unless under
the animal owner's physical restraint and control.
   Severe injury. Any physical injury that results in broken bones or
disfiguring lacerations or requires cosmetic surgery or hospitalization.
   Stray. An animal that is beyond the limits of confinement or lost and is not
wearing any tags, microchips, tattoos, or other methods of identification.
   Tattooing. Method of permanent identification for an animal located on the
inside thigh.
   Tethering. Tying out or fastening an animal outdoors on a rope, chain, wire,
cable, trolley system, or other similar type of device that fastens, chains,
ties, or restrains an animal to a pole, tree, fence, post, stake, dog house or
any other structure or object. The term tether does not mean the restraint of
an animal on an attended leash.
   Trap-Neuter-Return or TNR. The process of humanely trapping, sterilizing,
vaccinating for rabies, eartipping, and returning feral cats to their original
location.
   Trap-Neuter-Return colony or TNR colony. A group of feral cats that have
been registered with the Division in accordance with this chapter.
   TNR caregiver. A person who, in accordance with the TNR program as defined
in this chapter, provides care, including food, shelter, or medical care to a
feral cat in a TNR colony.
   Vicious animal. Any animal that, after having been determined as herein
defined to be a dangerous animal, while violating any provisions of this
chapter, commits a subsequent attack on a person or domestic animal causing
bodily injury.
   Wild animal. Any animal occurring or growing in a natural state, not
domesticated, cultivated or tamed; having an uncivilized, barbarous, or savage
mannerism.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-2 AUTHORITY; CREATION OF DIVISION OF ANIMAL PROTECTIVE SERVICES;
COMPOSITION; SCOPE OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   This chapter is established pursuant to grants of statutory authority
provided in the North Carolina General Statutes (G.S.) including, but not
limited to, the following, identified in pertinent part:
      (1)   G.S. 14-4, which identifies the criminal penalty for a violation of
a city ordinance made a misdemeanor under G.S. 160A-175.
      (2)   G.S. Chapter 67.
      (3)   G.S. 106-645, which authorizes, but limits the city, to adopt
ordinances regulating bee hives.
      (4)   G.S. 130A-192, which authorizes animal control officers to
determine if there are any dogs and cats not wearing valid rabies vaccination
tags.
      (5)   G.S. 160A-174, which authorizes the city to define, prohibit,
regulate, or abate acts, omissions, or conditions, detrimental to the health,
safety, or welfare of its citizens and the peace and dignity of the city.
      (6)   G.S. 160A-175, which authorizes the city to have the power to
impose fines and penalties for violations of its ordinances and to secure
injunctions and abatement orders to further insure compliance with its
ordinances; defines the process by which the city may make a violation of a
city ordinance a misdemeanor or infraction as provided in G.S. 14-4; identifies
ordinances that may not be charged as a misdemeanor or infraction; and
authorizes the city to impose a civil penalty for a violation of an ordinance.
      (7)   G.S. 160A-182, which authorizes the city to define and prohibit the
abuse of animals.
      (8)   G.S. 160A-186, which authorizes the city to regulate, restrict, or
prohibit keeping, running, or going at large of any domestic animals and
authorizes that animals at large in violation of the ordinance may be seized
and sold or destroyed after reasonable efforts to notify their owner.
      (9)   G.S. 160A-187, which authorizes the city to regulate, restrict, or
prohibit the possession or harboring within the city of animals which are
dangerous to persons or property.
      (10)   G.S. 160A-493, which authorizes the city to establish, equip,
operate, and maintain animal shelters.
   (B)   There is hereby created within the Police Department of the city the
Division, composed of the APS Supervisor to serve as head of the Division and
such other employees as the City Council shall deem necessary.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter and the enforcement thereof apply to
all animals within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-3 DUTIES OF DIVISION.
   (A)   The Division shall be charged with the responsibility and duties of
animal control within the city and shall also be responsible for:
      (1)   Seeing that all dogs, cats, and ferrets in the city are adequately
inoculated against rabies.
      (2)   Cooperating with the local Health Director and county health
officials and assisting in the enforcement of the laws of the state regarding
the control of animals and especially the vaccination of dogs, cats, and
ferrets against rabies and the confinement of vicious dogs.
      (3)   Be responsible for the investigation of all reported animal bites
within the city, for the quarantine of any dog, cat, or ferret involved in a
bite of a person for a period of not less than ten days, and for reporting to
the Health Director as soon as practicable the occurrence of any such animal
bite and condition of any quarantined animal.
      (4)   Investigating all complaints regarding animals covered by this
chapter.
      (5)   Making such canvasses of the city, including the homes in the city,
as it deems necessary for the purpose of ascertaining that all dogs, cats, and
ferrets are vaccinated against rabies.
      (6)   Enforcing all laws of the state and all ordinances of the city
pertaining to animals.
      (7)   Operating, managing, and supervising the city's animal shelter.
      (8)   Providing education and training particularly regarding animal
welfare and the health and safety of the public.
   (B)   Except as may otherwise be provided by statute, local law, or
ordinance, no officer, agent or employee of the city charged with the duty of
enforcing the provisions of this chapter or other applicable law shall be
personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a
result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of these duties,
unless he or she acted with actual malice.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-4 ENFORCEMENT POWERS; APS OFFICER BADGES; STORAGE AND USE OF
TRANQUILIZER GUNS.
   (A)   In the performance of their duties, members of the Division shall have
the power, authority, and immunity as described in G.S. 15A-404 to enforce the
provisions of this chapter and state law regarding the care, custody, control,
treatment, and impoundment of animals for violations of such provisions.
   (B)   In administering their duties under this chapter, APS Officers and
police officers are empowered to issue oral or written warnings, civil
citations, criminal summonses, or warrants for arrest as otherwise allowed by
law to any person, if there is probable cause to believe that that person has
violated any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Each APS officer while performing his or her respective duties shall
wear a badge of a size and design to be determined by the Chief of Police.
   (D)   APS officers shall be authorized to store at the animal shelter,
designated city facility, or carry in Division vehicles tranquilizer guns or
projectors approved for use by the Chief of Police and use such tranquilizer
guns or projectors when necessary to enforce sections of this chapter or other
applicable law for the control of wild, vicious, or diseased animals.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-5 RIGHT OF APS OFFICERS TO ENTER FOR INSPECTION.
   Whenever it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce any provisions of,
or perform any duty imposed by this chapter or other applicable law, or
whenever an APS officer has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in
any building or upon any premises any violation of the provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law, the APS officer is hereby empowered to enter
the property at any reasonable time to inspect same and perform any duty
imposed upon the APS officer by this chapter or other applicable law, but only
if consent of the occupant or owner of the property is freely given; a search
warrant is obtained; or an administrative inspection warrant is obtained.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-6 DUTY OF APS OFFICERS AND POLICE OFFICERS TO SEIZE AND IMPOUND
CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an APS officer or
police officer shall have the authority to enter upon any unenclosed lots or
land to enforce the provisions of this chapter or other applicable state law
regarding domestic animals running at large, including impoundment and seizure
of said domestic animal, if such violation is being committed in the presence
of such officers.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of on-duty police officers to seize and
immediately deliver to the Division, or to notify the Division, of the presence
of those animals which are authorized and directed to be seized and impounded
by this chapter or which are found or kept contrary to the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-7 IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS TO PREVENT ABUSE;
INVOLUNTARY ABSENCE OF OWNER.
   So as to prevent cruelty, abandonment, or abuse of an animal, whenever the
Division determines that any animal is or will be without proper care or may be
subject to cruelty, abandonment, or abuse due to the injury, death, illness,
incarceration, or other involuntary absence of the owner, the Division may
impound the animal until it is reclaimed by its owner or a person authorized by
the owner, in writing, to reclaim the animal on behalf of the owner. The owner
or person authorized by the owner to reclaim the animal must pay all applicable
fees in the same manner as any other owner would reclaim an impounded animal
prior to the release of the animal by the Division. An animal which has been
impounded pursuant to this section and has not been reclaimed within 10 days of
impoundment may be disposed of by the Division pursuant to Section 12-2-10 and
the Animal Welfare Act of North Carolina.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-8 RECORDS OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   The Division shall keep a record of each animal impounded in
accordance with 02 NCAC 52J.0101, including all of the following:
      (1)   The origin of the animal (including names and addresses of
consignors) and the date the animal was received.
      (2)   The description of the animal including species, age, sex, breed,
and color markings.
      (3)   The location of the animal if not kept at the licensed or
registered city facility.
      (4)   The disposition of the animal including the name and address of the
person to whom the animal is sold, traded, or adopted and the date of such
transaction.
      (5)   In the event of the death of the animal, the record shall also show
the date of death, signs of illness, or cause of death if identified. If the
animal is euthanized, the record shall show the date and type of euthanasia.
      (6)   The record of veterinary care for the animal including all
treatments, immunizations, and date, time, description of medication (including
name and dosage), and initials of person administering any medication, product,
or procedure.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-9 KEEPING STRAY ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly and intentionally
harbor, feed, or keep in possession by confinement or otherwise, any stray
animal.
   (B)   Within 24 hours from the time a stray animal comes into a person's
possession, the person shall notify the Division that the stray animal is in
the person's possession. Upon receiving such notice, the Division may impound
the animal at the Division's discretion in accordance with the North Carolina
Animal Welfare Act.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to surrender any stray
animal to an authorized representative of the Division upon demand.
   (D)   A person having temporary custody or possession of an animal for the
sole purpose of turning over such animal to the Division or any law enforcement
officer shall not be deemed in violation of this section.
   (E)   Penalties. A violation of this section may subject the offender to any
or all of the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than $100 and not more than $500.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
issued a civil citation or citations, as may be required, as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
            2.   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            3.   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
         (b)   Contents and service of civil citation. A civil citation issued
for a violation of any provision of this section shall clearly state when the
civil penalty is due and the manner in which the violation may be appealed.
Civil citations issued under this section shall be served personally or by
first-class mail upon the violator by an APS officer or by a member of the
Greenville Police Department.
         (c)   Appeals; payment of civil penalties. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, all
civil penalties assessed for violations of any provision of this section must
be paid to and received by the revenue division of the city's Financial
Services Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
         (d)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalties. Unless appealed
in accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city's Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
            1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
            2.   The use of a collections agency.
            3.   The use of the provisions of G.S. Chapter 105A (The Setoff
Debt Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
            4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
            5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect,
satisfy, or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (3)   Continuing violations. Each day's continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-10 IMPOUNDMENT, RECLAMATION, AND DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS; GENERALLY.
   (A)   The Division shall hold any stray horse, mule, burro, cattle, goat,
sheep, or other livestock impounded under this chapter for a period of seven
days from the time of impoundment, during which time the owner of the animal,
if known, shall be notified and allowed to reclaim the animal upon the payment
of all applicable fees.
   (B)   The Division shall hold any stray dog, cat, domestic rabbit, bird,
fowl, and other stray animal for 72 hours from the time of impoundment, during
which time the owner of the animal, if known, shall be notified and allowed to
reclaim the animal upon the payment of all applicable fees.
   (C)   Animals not herein specifically mentioned shall be disposed of in the
same manner as dogs and cats.
   (D)   If a stray animal is not reclaimed by the owner during the applicable
period of reclamation, the animal shall be disposed of as follows:
      (1)   In the case of animals described in division (A) of this section,
the animal shall be disposed of in accordance with G.S. Chapter 68, Article 3.
      (2)   In the case of animals described in divisions (B) and (C) of this
section, the animal shall be disposed of in accordance with G.S. 19A-32.1.
      (3)   If any animal is not reclaimed, the Division may continue to hold
that animal for subsequent disposition consistent with applicable law.
   (E)   The Division may immediately destroy any wild animal in a humane
manner consistent with the laws and regulations of the North Carolina Wildlife
Resources Commission.
   (F)   All proceeds derived by the Division shall be turned over to the
Financial Services Department of the city.
   Any dog, cat, or ferret impounded which appears to be suffering from rabies,
affected with rabies, or affected with hydrophobia shall not be reclaimed or
adopted but shall be quarantined for 10 days under observation; and thereafter
if the Division determines that the dog, cat, or ferret is affected with rabies
or hydrophobia, the dog, cat, or ferret shall be destroyed by the Division in a
humane manner. If the animal has been determined to not have rabies or
hydrophobia, the animal shall be subject to reclamation or adoption as herein
provided. Any animal suffering from any other infection, contagious or
dangerous disease shall not be adopted or sold but may be reclaimed by the
owner.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-11 RECLAMATION FEES.
   (A)   The Division shall charge and collect reclamation fees as provided in
the Manual of Fees.
   (B)   Reclamation fees shall be in addition to any other applicable charges
including but not limited to any license fee or inoculation costs or fees that
may be required by this chapter or other applicable law.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-12 CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person(s) to own, keep, have charge of,
shelter, feed, or harbor any of the following within the city limits:
      (1)   An animal that without provocation and in the city kills or
inflicts severe injury, through bite or otherwise, on a person.
      (2)   A vicious animal.
      (3)   A public nuisance animal.
      (4)   An inherently dangerous animal.
   (B)   Penalties. A violation of this section may subject the offender to any
or all of the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than $100 and not more than $500.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
issued a civil citation or citations, as may be required, as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
            2.   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            3.   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
         (b)   Contents and service of civil citation. A civil citation issued
for a violation of any provision of this section shall clearly state when the
civil penalty is due and the manner in which the violation may be appealed.
Civil citations issued under this section shall be served personally or by
first-class mail upon the violator by an APS officer or by a member of the
Greenville Police Department.
         (c)   Appeals; payment of civil penalties. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, all
civil penalties assessed for violations of any provision of this section must
be paid to and received by the revenue division of the city's Financial
Services Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
         (d)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalties. Unless appealed
in accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city's Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
            1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
            2.   The use of a collections agency.
            3.   The use of the provisions of G.S. Chapter 105A (The Setoff
Debt Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
            4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
            5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect,
satisfy, or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (3)   Continuing violations. Each day's continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-13 INHERENTLY DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, maintain, or have
care, custody, or control of any inherently dangerous animal within the
corporate limits of the city unless specifically exempted by this section.
   (B)   The confinement of inherently dangerous animals that are exempt under
this section must meet the regulations promulgated by the North Carolina
Wildlife Resources Commission, the minimum standards under the Animal Welfare
Act, and all applicable rules promulgated by the U.S. Department of
Agriculture. In addition, all exempt animals shall be confined, restrained, and
controlled in such a manner so that the physical safety of persons and property
shall not be endangered. The Division shall have the right to inspect the
premises where an inherently dangerous animal is housed to ensure proper
confinement and compliance with applicable state and federal regulations.
   (C)   Subject to this section, the following persons shall be exempt from
the provisions of this section:
      (1)   Any organization duly authorized and existing under the laws of the
State of North Carolina that owns or harbors an inherently dangerous animal for
research or educational purposes, provided that such institution is permitted
for such animal by the U.S. Department of Agriculture and continually maintains
any necessary permits from state and federal agencies.
      (2)   Any owner who possesses an inherently dangerous animal, pursuant to
the American with Disabilities Act (ADA), and uses such animal as a service
animal trained to assist the owner with a disability.
      (3)   A wildlife rehabilitator licensed by the North Carolina Wildlife
Resources Commission.
   (D)   Penalties. A violation of this section may subject the offender to any
or all of the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than $100 and not more than $500.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
issued a civil citation or citations, as may be required, as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            2.   Second and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A second violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
         (b)   Contents and service of civil citation. A civil citation issued
for a violation of any provision of this section shall clearly state when the
civil penalty is due and the manner in which the violation may be appealed.
Civil citations issued under this section shall be served personally or by
first-class mail upon the violator by an APS officer or by a member of the
Greenville Police Department.
         (c)   Appeals; payment of civil penalties. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, all
civil penalties assessed for violations of any provision of this section must
be paid to and received by the revenue division of the City's Financial
Services Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
         (d)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalties. Unless appealed
in accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city's Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
            1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
            2.   The use of a collections agency.
            3.   The use of the provisions of G.S. Chapter 105A (The Setoff
Debt Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
            4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
            5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect,
satisfy, or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (3)   Continuing violations. Each day's continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-14 DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   The APS Supervisor shall be responsible for determining when an animal
is a public nuisance in accordance with this chapter or dangerous animal,
vicious animal, potentially dangerous dog, or dangerous dog in accordance with
this chapter and G.S. Chapter 67. The APS Supervisor must notify the owner in
writing of the reasons for the determination that an animal is a public
nuisance animal, dangerous animal, vicious animal, potentially dangerous dog,
and/or dangerous dog, before the animal may be considered as such. The
determination shall also include notice of the owner's right to appeal.
   (B)   The owner may appeal the determination that an animal has been
determined to be a public nuisance animal, dangerous animal, vicious animal,
potentially dangerous dog, or dangerous dog by filing an appeal in accordance
with this chapter. However, the APS Supervisor's determination that an animal
is a public nuisance animal, dangerous animal, vicious animal, potentially
dangerous dog, or dangerous dog shall remain in effect with any and all
applicable restrictions unless the determination is subsequently overturned by
the appeal board or superior court.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-15 DANGEROUS ANIMALS AND VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   The Division shall enforce this section, and it shall be the duty of
the APS Supervisor to make the determination if an animal is dangerous or
vicious in accordance with this chapter and G.S. Chapter 67.
   (B)   Restrictions of Ownership of Dangerous Animals. It shall be lawful for
the owner of an animal deemed as a dangerous animal to own, keep, harbor, have
charge of, shelter, or feed the animal within the city only if the owner
strictly adheres to all of the following restrictions:
      (1)   Tattooing or electronic implant. Within 14 days from the initial
determination deeming the animal as dangerous or within 14 days from the
relocation of the animal to the city from another jurisdiction, the animal must
have permanent identification by means of a tattoo located on the inside thigh
or by electronic implant. The cost of said tattoo/implant will be paid for by
the owner. The Division shall maintain a physical description and photograph of
the animal. The owner must allow and assist any member of the Division or the
Police Department in viewing the tattoo or reading the electronic implant at
any time deemed reasonable or at such time as the identification of the dog is
in question.
      (2)   Signage. Within 14 days from the initial determination deeming the
animal as dangerous or within 14 days from the relocation of the animal to the
city from another jurisdiction, the owner shall place and install a sign
stating “Dangerous Animal on Site,” “Beware of Dangerous Animal,” or, if the
animal at issue is a dog, “Beware of Dangerous Dog” on all of the following
locations:
         (a)   A sign at each entrance, driveway, or pathway to the owner's
real property.
         (b)   A sign on any outdoor pen, fence, or enclosure.
         The signs required by this section shall be at least two feet by two
feet in size but shall not be greater than three feet by three feet in size.
Any sign in compliance with this section shall be exempt from the city's zoning
ordinance.
      (3)   Sterilization. Within 14 days from the initial determination
deeming the animal as dangerous or within 14 days from the relocation of the
animal to the city from another jurisdiction, the owner shall have the animal
sterilized by a licensed veterinarian. All fees and costs are the
responsibility of the owner.
      (4)   A secure pen. Within 14 days from the initial determination deeming
the animal as dangerous or within 14 days from the relocation of the animal to
the city from another jurisdiction, the owner shall keep the animal secured
inside the owner's residence or in a secure outdoor pen that is constructed of
materials strong enough to contain the animal. The outdoor pen must be
constructed to comply with all of the following:
         (a)   The pen shall be large enough for the animal (depending on the
size of the animal) to move about freely. It shall provide the animal with
adequate shelter and adequate shade.
         (b)   The pen must have a floor, sides, and a top from which the
animal cannot escape.
         (c)   The pen shall be constructed of a six-foot-high fence of at
least nine-gauge chain link. The pen will also have a fence or solid top
constructed of the same material.
         (d)   The pen must be constructed so that the animal may not dig under
the sides. If the floor is constructed of dirt, the enclosure must include an
eight-foot fence with two feet buried in the ground or sunken into a concrete
pad which is 24 inches wide along the inside perimeter of the fence and four
inches thick.
         Any pen in compliance with this section shall be exempt from the
city's zoning ordinance.
      (5)   Inspection. The Division and the police department may cause such
inspections as deemed appropriate to be made to the premises of an owner of a
dangerous animal to determine compliance with the provisions of this section.
      (6)   Off the owner's real property. Anytime a dangerous animal is off
the owner's real property, the animal will be on a secure collar and leash not
to exceed six feet, wearing a muzzle, and restrained by an individual, or
securely enclosed inside of a transport container of adequate size and strength
to contain the animal. In no event shall the dangerous animal be allowed on any
city-owned or operated dog park.
      (7)   Relocation. The owner must notify the Division at least three
business days prior to moving the animal to a new address and give the Division
the new address or location of the animal.
      (8)   Notification of death. The owner must notify the Division within
three days of the death of the animal.
      (9)   Owner to maintain ownership unless surrendered to Division. No
dangerous animal may be given away, sold, traded, placed for adoption, or
otherwise transferred. The owner must retain ownership, possession, control,
and responsibility for the animal until the animal dies naturally or is
surrendered to the Division for euthanasia.
      (10)   Annual registration and dangerous animal permit required.
         (a)   Registration generally. Within seven days from the initial
determination deeming the animal as dangerous or within seven days from the
relocation of the animal to the city from another jurisdiction, the owner shall
register such animal with the Division, or may, in lieu of any hearing,
register such animal voluntarily, which such voluntary registration shall
constitute an admission and determination that the animal is dangerous.
         (b)   Permits generally. After registration of a dangerous animal, or
after a determination that such animal is dangerous, no person shall own, keep
or harbor such animal thereafter within the city without applying for and
obtaining a dangerous animal permit from the Division.
         (c)   Issuance of permit. The Division shall issue a permit for a
dangerous animal only upon submission by the owner to the Division of a
complete, verified application, payment of the required dangerous animal permit
fee, proof of insurance as described in this section, and a finding by the
Division that the owner has complied with all other requirements of this
section. Each permit shall be issued by the Division conditioned on the owner's
continued compliance with all applicable ordinances and laws.
         (d)   Term of permit. Each dangerous animal permit shall be valid for
one calendar year from the date of issuance and must be renewed at least 14
days prior to the expiration of same.
         (e)   Permanent registration number required. The tattoo or electronic
implant number assigned to the animal as required by this section shall be the
permanent registration number of the animal with the Division. No person shall
alter, conceal, or remove such registration number once it is assigned or
affixed to the animal.
         (f)   Payment of annual dangerous animal registration fee. The owner
shall pay annually a registration fee for each dangerous animal in an amount
set in the Manual of Fees.
         (g)   Insurance. The owner shall maintain a policy of liability
insurance covering any injury or property damage caused by the animal. Minimum
policy limits shall be $250,000 per occurrence. The owner shall cause a
certificate or declaration of insurance to be furnished to the Division
annually as part of the permit application. Every calendar day that the
required insurance is not in full force and effect shall constitute a violation
of this ordinance.
         (h)   Revocation of permit. Upon a finding of noncompliance with the
provisions of this section, the Division may revoke the dangerous animal permit
and seize and impound the animal at the owner's expense pending the outcome of
a hearing in accordance with section 12-2-16.
   (C)   Subsequent bite or attack; vicious determination. In addition to any
other penalties as defined and described in this chapter, if an animal that has
previously been determined to be a dangerous animal attacks or bites a person
or domesticated animal while in violation of any provision of this chapter, the
APS Supervisor may issue a determination that the animal is a vicious animal.
Upon issuance of the determination that the animal is vicious, and unless the
owner appeals the determination in accordance with this chapter, the animal
shall immediately be seized and euthanized, after a ten day rabies quarantine
if required, by the Division.
   (D)   Exceptions. The following are exempt from the provisions of this
section.
      (1)   A law enforcement animal or guard dog used by a law enforcement
officer or bona fide professional security guard to carry out official law
enforcement or security duties.
      (2)   An animal that causes injury to a person when that person, or
another acting in concert with that person, was tormenting, abusing, or
assaulting the animal or was committing or attempting to commit any crime or
tort at or about the time of the injury.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent an APS officer
or any other person from pursuing remedies under G.S. Chapter 67, Article 1A or
other operation of law.
   (F)   Penalties. A violation of this section may subject the offender to any
or all of the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than $250 and not more than $500.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
issued a civil citation or citations, as may be required, as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            2.   Second and subsequent violation within 365 days of the first
violation. Any subsequent violation of this section by the violator within 365
days from herein defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil
penalty of $500.
         (b)   Contents and service of civil citation. A civil citation issued
for a violation of any provision of this section shall clearly state when the
civil penalty is due and the manner in which the violation may be appealed.
Civil citations issued under this section shall be served personally or by
first-class mail upon the violator by an APS officer or by a member of the
Greenville Police Department.
         (c)   Appeals; payment of civil penalties. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, all
civil penalties assessed for violations of any provision of this section must
be paid to and received by the revenue division of the city’s Financial
Services Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
         (d)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalties. Unless appealed
in accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Chapter 20 of the City Code, if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city’s Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
            1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
            2.   The use of a collections agency.
            3.   The use of the provisions of G.S. Chapter 105A (The Setoff
Debt Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
            4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
            5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect,
satisfy, or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (3)   Continuing violations. Each day's continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-16 APPEALS OF DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   Appeal Board; members. The Appeal Board shall be constituted of three
city employees who shall be authorized to hear and decide appeals in accordance
with this section. One member shall be the Chief of Police or designee from the
Police Department. The remaining two members shall be either the City Manager
and a designee or two designees selected by the City Manager. There shall be an
alternate member selected by the City Manager to serve on the Appeal Board in
the event of a conflict of interest. The APS Supervisor may not serve on the
Appeal Board.
   (B)   Appeal to Appeal Board. The owner may appeal a determination made
pursuant to this section, section
12-2-14, section
12-2-15, or section
12-2-37 by filing an appeal in accordance with this section.
      (1)   Notice of appeal; contents and filing. If the owner of the animal
elects to appeal the APS Supervisor's determination, the owner shall file a
notice of appeal in writing to the Appeal Board. The appeal shall be filed
within three days of the issuance of the determination; shall include written
objections; and shall be directed to the City Manager's office. Any appeal
received by the City Manager's office more than three days after the date of
the determination shall be deemed untimely and shall not be considered by the
Appeal Board. Accordingly, the APS Supervisor's determination shall stand and
may not be appealed.
      (2)   Scheduling of the hearing. The City Manager's office, as designee
of the Appeal Board, shall schedule a hearing within ten days of the filing of
the notice of appeal. The hearing on the appeal shall take place within a
reasonable time, but no longer than 30 days from the filing of the notice of
appeal. The City Manager's office shall mail notice of the hearing via
certified mail return receipt requested to the appellant and shall also provide
notice to the APS Supervisor. If the owner does not appear at the hearing, the
APS Supervisor's determination shall stand and shall be fully enforceable.
      (3)   Conduct of the hearing. The hearing on the appeal of the APS
Supervisor's determination shall be an informal administrative hearing. The
City Manager shall be the chairperson and conduct the hearing and govern
procedural questions. The North Carolina rules of evidence shall not apply.
However, both the appellant and the city shall be entitled to be represented by
counsel, have the right to make opening and closing statements, present
evidence, and call, confront, and cross-examine witnesses. All witnesses shall
testify under oath. Each Appeal Board member shall have the right to question
witnesses. The appellant and/or the city shall be allowed to record the
hearing. The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the principles of
due process.
   (C)   Final decision of Appeal Board. The Appeal Board shall make the final
decision. The decision of the Appeal Board shall be by majority vote, and said
decision shall be made at the conclusion of the hearing unless the Appeal Board
requests additional evidence. The decision of the Appeal Board shall be
documented by the City Manager in writing, including findings to support the
Appeal Board's decision, and notice of appeal rights, and forwarded to the
applicant within ten days of the conclusion of the hearing via certified mail,
return receipt requested.
   (D)   Appeal to superior court. Any appeal from the final decision of the
Appeal Board shall be taken to the Pitt County superior court by filing notice
of appeal and a petition for review within ten days of the final decision of
the Appeal Board. Appeals from rulings of the Appeal Board shall be heard de
novo before a superior court judge sitting in the Pitt County superior court
division.
   (E)   Stay of APS Determination during appeal. Given the risk to public
health and safety associated with determining that an animal is dangerous or
vicious or a public nuisance, the APS Supervisor's determination shall be in
effect and fully enforceable from the date of determination unless overturned
on appeal. However, any requirements in the APS Supervisor's determination
involving a date restriction shall be stayed during the pendency of the appeal.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022; Ord. No. 23-049, § 14, passed 6-8-
2023)
SEC. 12-2-17 EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   The Division is hereby vested with the authority to issue permits for
the keeping or maintaining of any wild, exotic, dangerous, or nondomestic
animal when, in the opinion of the APS Supervisor, the animal may be kept or
maintained without endangering the safety of any person or property.
   (B)   No person, business, or event (e.g., circus, exhibition, show, and the
like) shall have or maintain any wild, exotic, dangerous, or nondomestic animal
or reptile without first applying to and receiving from the Division a permit
to do so, provided that the keeping or maintenance of such animals shall
conform to any applicable zoning regulation. Any person, business, or event
planning to have or maintain any of the types of animals stated above shall pay
a fee for each permit as set out in the Manual of Fees.
   (C)   The Division may require an animal that is subject to the provisions
of this section to be properly caged, secured, and maintained, and may revoke
any such permit for any violation of state or federal law or this chapter or
when, in the opinion of the APS Supervisor, the safety of any person or
property is endangered by the keeping of any such animal.
   (D)   The Division shall also have authority to issue permits for the
keeping or maintaining on a temporary basis of all types of wild animals or
reptiles in connection with a circus, amusement enterprise, animal exhibition,
or animal trade show, when located in the city and otherwise allowed by the
city's zoning ordinance or other applicable law of rule.
   (E)   In accordance with G.S. Chapter 14, Article 55 (Regulation of Certain
Reptiles), any person applying for a permit for a large constricting snake such
as a: Reticulated Python, Python reticulatus', Burmese Python, Python molurus',
African Rock Python, Python sebae', Amethystine Python, Morelia amethistina',
and Green Anaconda, Eunectes murinus', or any of their subspecies or hybrids
shall:
      (1)   Own, possess, use, transport, or traffic the large constricting
snake in a sturdy and secure enclosure designed to be escape-proof and shall
have an operable lock.
      (2)   Clearly and visibly label each enclosure with the scientific name,
common name, number of specimens, and owner's identifying information.
      (3)   Provide the Division with a written safety protocol and escape
recovery plan which shall be within sight of permanent housing, and a copy
shall accompany the transport of any of the large constricting snakes. The
safety protocol shall include emergency contact information, identification of
the local animal control office, and first aid procedures.
      (4)   In the event of an escape of a large constricting snake, the owner
or possessor shall immediately notify local law enforcement and the Division.
   (F)   In accordance with G.S. Chapter 14, Article 55 (Regulation of Certain
Reptiles), any person applying for a permit for a venomous reptile shall:
      (1)   Own, possess, use, transport, or traffic the venomous reptile
housed in a sturdy and secure enclosure designed to be escape-proof, bite-
proof, and have an operable lock.
      (2)   Clearly and visibly label each enclosure with "Venomous Reptile
Inside" with scientific name, common name, appropriate antivenin, number of
specimens, and owner's identifying information noted on the container.
      (3)   Provide the Division with a written bite protocol that includes
emergency contact information, local animal control office information, the
name and location of suitable antivenin, first aid procedures, and treatment
guidelines, as well as an escape recovery plan that must be within sight of
permanent housing, and a copy of same must accompany the transport of any
venomous reptile.
      (4)   In the event of an escape of a venomous reptile, the owner or
possessor of the venomous reptile shall immediately notify local law
enforcement and the Division.
   (G)   Nothing in this chapter shall be constructed to prevent an APS officer
or law enforcement officer from seeking remedies in accordance with G.S.
Chapter 14, Article 55 (Regulation of Certain Reptiles) or other law expressly
referencing an exotic or wild animal.
   (H)   Penalties. A violation of this section may subject the offender to any
or all of the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than $100 and not more than $500.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
issued a civil citation or citations, as may be required, as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
            2.   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            3.   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
         (b)   Contents and service of civil citation. A civil citation issued
for a violation of any provision of this section shall clearly state when the
civil penalty is due and the manner in which the violation may be appealed.
Civil citations issued under this section shall be served personally or by
first-class mail upon the violator by an APS officer or by a member of the
Greenville Police Department.
         (c)   Appeals; payment of civil penalties. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, all
civil penalties assessed for violations of any provision of this section must
be paid to and received by the revenue division of the city’s Financial
Services Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
         (d)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalties. Unless appealed
in accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city’s Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
            1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
            2.   The use of a collections agency.
            3.   The use of the provisions of G.S. Chapter 105A (The Setoff
Debt Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
            4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
            5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect,
satisfy, or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (3)   Continuing violations. Each day's continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-18 TETHERING.
   (A)   Any device used to tether a dog shall be at least ten feet long and
attached in such a manner as to prevent strangulation or other injury to the
dog and entanglement with other objects.
   (B)   A cable trolley system may be used to tether a dog so long as the
stationary cable is at least ten feet long and the dog can perpendicularly move
at least ten feet away from the stationary line.
   (C)   A tether must be equipped with a swivel on both ends.
   (D)   The tether device shall be attached to the dog with a buckle type
collar or a body harness.
   (E)   The device used to tether the dog shall weigh no more than 10% of the
animal's body weight. In no event shall it be lawful to restrain a dog using a
chain or wire grossly in excess of the size necessary to restrain the dog
safely.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to attach a rope, chain, wire, or other tethering
device to a choke-type or pronged collar.
   (G)   While on a tether device, the dog must have access to adequate food,
adequate shade, adequate shelter, and adequate water.
   (H)   Penalties. A violation of this section may subject the offender to any
or all of the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than $100 and not more than $500.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
issued a civil citation or citations, as may be required, as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
            2.   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            3.   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
         (b)   Contents and service of civil citation. A civil citation issued
for a violation of any provision of this section shall clearly state when the
civil penalty is due and the manner in which the violation may be appealed.
Civil citations issued under this section shall be served personally or by
first-class mail upon the violator by an APS officer or by a member of the
Greenville Police Department.
         (c)   Appeals; payment of civil penalties. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, all
civil penalties assessed for violations of any provision of this section must
be paid to and received by the revenue division of the city’s Financial
Services Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
         (d)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalties. Unless appealed
in accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city’s Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
            1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
            2.   The use of a collections agency.
            3.   The use of the provisions of G.S. Chapter 105A (The Setoff
Debt Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
            4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
            5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect,
satisfy, or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (3)   Continuing violations. Each day's continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-19 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally overdrive,
overload, wound, injure, bait, molest, torment, kill, or deprive of necessary
sustenance or adequate veterinary care, or cause or procure to be overdriven,
overloaded, wounded, injured, tormented, killed, or deprived of necessary
sustenance or adequate veterinary care any animal.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to provide veterinary care
to any animal after having been notified in writing by an APS officer or law
enforcement officer if in that officer's opinion the animal is in need of
veterinary care to prevent suffering.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner in contact with or having knowledge
of a sick, diseased, or injured animal to fail to provide proper medical
treatment for the animal or notify the Division of the condition. A sick,
diseased, or injured animal shall go no longer than 24 hours without veterinary
care.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully set on foot, or
instigate, or move to, carry on, or promote, or engage in, or do any act
towards the furtherance of any act of cruelty to any animal.
   (E)   As used in this section, the words “torture,” “torment,” and “cruelly”
include or refer to any act, omission, or neglect causing or permitting
unjustifiable pain, suffering, or death. As used in this section, the word
“intentionally” refers to an act committed knowingly and without justifiable
excuse.
   (F)   No domesticated animal, household pet, or wild animal in captivity may
be confined in a motor vehicle under conditions that are likely to cause
suffering, injury, or death to the animal due to heat, cold, lack of adequate
ventilation, or other endangering conditions. Such confinement shall be
considered unlawful. Without limiting the foregoing, it shall be presumed that
an interior temperature exceeding 109° F causes an unacceptable level of
suffering by any such animal and constitutes improper confinement in violation
of this section.
   (G)   This section shall not apply to the following activities:
      (1)   The lawful taking of animals under the jurisdiction and regulation
of the Wildlife Resources Commission, except that this section shall apply to
those birds other than pigeons exempted by the Wildlife Resources Commission
from its definition of “wild birds” pursuant to G.S. 113-129(15a).
      (2)   Lawful activities conducted for purposes of biomedical research or
training or for purposes of production of livestock, poultry, or aquatic
species.
      (3)   Lawful activities conducted for the primary purpose of providing
food for human or animal consumption.
      (4)   Activities conducted for lawful veterinary purposes.
      (5)   The lawful destruction of any animal for the purposes of protecting
the public, other animals, property, or the public health.
      (6)   The physical alteration of livestock or poultry for the purpose of
conforming with breed or show standards.
   (H)   Penalties. A violation of this section may subject the offender to any
or all of the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than $100 and not more than $500.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
issued a civil citation or citations, as may be required, as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
            2.   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            3.   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
         (b)   Contents and service of civil citation. A civil citation issued
for a violation of any provision of this section shall clearly state when the
civil penalty is due and the manner in which the violation may be appealed.
Civil citations issued under this section shall be served personally or by
first-class mail upon the violator by an APS officer or by a member of the
Greenville Police Department.
         (c)   Appeals; payment of civil penalties. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, all
civil penalties assessed for violations of any provision of this section must
be paid to and received by the revenue division of the city’s Financial
Services Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
         (d)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalties. Unless appealed
in accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city’s Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
            1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
            2.   The use of a collections agency.
            3.   The use of the provisions of G.S. Chapter 105A (The Setoff
Debt Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
            4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
            5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect,
satisfy, or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (3)   Continuing violations. Each day’s continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-20 ADEQUATE FOOD, SHADE, SHELTER, AND WATER.
   (A)   All dogs and cats shall be given adequate food, adequate shade,
adequate shelter, and adequate water. Adequate shelter is defined as an
enclosure of at least three sides, a roof, and a floor. The enclosure shall be
ventilated and must have sufficient room for the animal(s) to move around
freely and to lie down comfortably.
   (B)   Animals housed under the following conditions shall not constitute
adequate shelter:
      (1)   Underneath outside steps, decks, and stoops.
      (2)   Inside of vehicles.
      (3)   Underneath vehicles.
      (4)   Inside metal or plastic barrels, cardboard boxes, or garbage cans.
      (5)   Rooms, sheds, or other buildings without windows or proper
ventilation.
      (6)   Underneath houses.
      (7)   Inside temporary animal carriers or crates.
      (8)   Shelters located in flood-prone areas or areas that lack a suitable
method of draining so as to eliminate excess water or moisture.
   (C)   Adequate shade must be provided for dogs and cats from sunrise to
sunset during the months of May through September at all such times that a dog
or cat is tethered or kenneled outside.
   (D)   Penalties. A violation of this section may subject the offender to any
or all of the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than $100 and not more than $500.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
issued a civil citation or citations, as may be required, as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
            2.   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            3.   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
         (b)   Contents and service of civil citation. A civil citation issued
for a violation of any provision of this section shall clearly state when the
civil penalty is due and the manner in which the violation may be appealed.
Civil citations issued under this section shall be served personally or by
first-class mail upon the violator by an APS officer or by a member of the
Greenville Police Department.
         (c)   Appeals; payment of civil penalties. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, all
civil penalties assessed for violations of any provision of this section must
be paid to and received by the revenue division of the city’s Financial
Services Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
         (d)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalties. Unless appealed
in accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city's Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
            1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
            2.   The use of a collections agency.
            3.   The use of the provisions of G.S. Chapter 105A (The Setoff
Debt Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
            4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
            5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect,
satisfy, or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (3)   Continuing violations. Each day's continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-21 RESERVED.
SEC. 12-2-22 DUTY OF DRIVERS TO GIVE NOTICE OF INJURY TO DOMESTICATED ANIMAL.
   (A)   It shall be a civil offense for any person accidentally or
unintentionally injuring a domesticated animal by striking the domesticated
animal with an automobile, bicycle, or other vehicle to fail to immediately
notify the owner of the domesticated animal, the Division, or the Police
Department of such incident.
   (B)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this section may be issued a
civil citation or citations, as may be required, as follows:
         (a)   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
         (b)   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
         (c)   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
      (2)   Contents and service of civil citation. A civil citation issued for
a violation of any provision of this section shall clearly state when the civil
penalty is due and the manner in which the violation may be appealed. Civil
citations issued under this section shall be served personally or by first-
class mail upon the violator by an APS officer or by a member of the Greenville
Police Department.
      (3)   Appeals; payment of civil penalties. Unless appealed in accordance
with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, all civil
penalties assessed for violations of any provision of this section must be paid
to and received by the revenue division of the city's Financial Services
Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
      (4)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalties. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city's Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
         (a)   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
         (b)   The use of a collections agency.
         (c)   The use of the provisions of G.S. Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
         (d)   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
         (e)   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect, satisfy,
or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (5)   Continuing violations. Each day’s continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
SEC. 12-2-23 STAKING OUT, HERDING, OR GRAZING ANIMALS ON UNENCLOSED PREMISES.
   (A)   No person shall stake out, herd, tether, or graze any animal, upon an
unenclosed lot or land in any manner so that the animal may go beyond the
boundary of the lot or land.
   (B)   Civil Penalties.
         (a)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
issued a civil citation or citations, as may be required, as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
            2.   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            3.   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
      (2)   Contents and service of civil citation. A civil citation issued for
a violation of any provision of this section shall clearly state when the civil
penalty is due and the manner in which the violation may be appealed. Civil
citations issued under this section shall be served personally or by first-
class mail upon the violator by an APS officer or by a member of the Greenville
Police Department.
      (3)   Appeals; payment of civil penalties. Unless appealed in accordance
with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, all civil
penalties assessed for violations of any provision of this section must be paid
to and received by the revenue division of the city’s Financial Services
Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
      (4)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalties. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city’s Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
         (a)   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
         (b)   The use of a collections agency.
         (c)   The use of the provisions of G.S. Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
         (d)   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
         (e)   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect, satisfy,
or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (5)   Continuing violations. Each day’s continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-24 SETTING ANIMALS FREE FOR CHASE.
   (A)   No person shall set free any rabbit, hare, or other animals in the
city for the purpose of chasing, hunting, or having a race thereafter.
   (B)   Civil Penalties.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this section may be issued a
civil citation or citations, as may be required, as follows:
         (a)   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
         (b)   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
         (c)   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
      (2)   Contents and service of civil citation. A civil citation issued for
a violation of any provision of this section shall clearly state when the civil
penalty is due and the manner in which the violation may be appealed. Civil
citations issued under this section shall be served personally or by first-
class mail upon the violator by an APS officer or by a member of the Greenville
Police Department.
      (3)   Appeals; payment of civil penalties. Unless appealed in accordance
with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, all civil
penalties assessed for violations of any provision of this section must be paid
to and received by the revenue division of the city's Financial Services
Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
      (4)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalties. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city's Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
         (a)   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
         (b)   The use of a collections agency.
         (c)   The use of the provisions of G.S. Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
         (d)   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
         (e)   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect, satisfy,
or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (5)   Continuing violations. Each day's continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-25 KEEPING OR DISPLAYING ANIMALS GENERALLY; CONDUCT OF WHOLESALE
POULTRY YARDS.
   (A)   No person shall exhibit, keep, or display animals, birds, or fowl of
any kind unattended in glass show windows for longer than six hours per day.
   (B)   No person shall exhibit, keep, or display animals, birds, or fowl of
any kind in a manner without shading the animals from the sun, and providing
adequate food, water, and ventilation for the animal.
   (C)   No person shall exhibit, keep, or display animals, birds, or fowl of
any kind in glass show windows on Sundays and holidays.
   (D)   No person shall conduct or operate a wholesale poultry yard wherein
quantities of fowl of any description are gathered and kept within any
residential district of the city or within 80 feet of any place of human abode
within the corporate limits of the city.
   (E)   Civil Penalties.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this section may be issued a
civil citation or citations, as may be required, as follows:
         (a)   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
         (b)   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
         (c)   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
      (2)   Contents and service of civil citation. A civil citation issued for
a violation of any provision of this section shall clearly state when the civil
penalty is due and the manner in which the violation may be appealed. Civil
citations issued under this section shall be served personally or by first-
class mail upon the violator by an APS officer or by a member of the Greenville
Police Department.
      (3)   Appeals; payment of civil penalties. Unless appealed in accordance
with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, all civil
penalties assessed for violations of any provision of this section must be paid
to and received by the revenue division of the city’s Financial Services
Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
      (4)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalties. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city's Financial Services Department, the City may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
         (a)   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
         (b)   The use of a collections agency.
         (c)   The use of the provisions of G.S. Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
         (d)   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
         (e)   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect, satisfy,
or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (5)   Continuing violations. Each day's continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-26 SALE OF FOWL OR RABBITS UNDER CERTAIN CONDITIONS; COLORING FOWL OR
RABBITS.
   (A)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, barter, or give away baby
chickens, ducklings, or other fowl, seven weeks of age or under as pets, toys,
premiums, or novelties. Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to
prohibit the sale of nondomesticated species of chicks, ducklings, or other
fowl, from proper brooder facilities by hatcheries or stores engaged in the
business of selling them for purposes other than for pets or novelties.
   (B)   No person shall color, dye, stain, or otherwise change the natural
color of chickens, other fowl, or rabbits.
   (C)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this section may be issued a
civil citation or citations, as may be required, as follows:
         (a)   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
         (b)   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
         (c)   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
      (2)   Contents and service of civil citation. A civil citation issued for
a violation of any provision of this section shall clearly state when the civil
penalty is due and the manner in which the violation may be appealed. Civil
citations issued under this section shall be served personally or by first-
class mail upon the violator by an APS officer or by a member of the Greenville
Police Department.
      (3)   Appeals; payment of civil penalties. Unless appealed in accordance
with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, all civil
penalties assessed for violations of any provision of this section must be paid
to and received by the revenue division of the city’s Financial Services
Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
      (4)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalties. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city’s Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
         (a)   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
         (b)   The use of a collections agency.
         (c)   The use of the provisions of G.S. Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
         (d)   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
         (e)   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect, satisfy,
or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (5)   Continuing violations. Each day’s continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-27 KEEPING SWINE.
   (A)   No person shall keep any hog, pig, swine, or other suidae over 100
pounds or that is more than 22 inches high when measured at the shoulder.
   (B)   No more than two hogs, pigs, swine, or other Suidae allowed herein
shall reside or be maintained at any dwelling unit or at any non-residentially
zoned parcel.
   (C)   Civil Penalties.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this section may be issued a
civil citation or citations, as may be required, as follows:
         (a)   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
         (b)   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
         (c)   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
      (2)   Contents and service of civil citation. A civil citation issued for
a violation of any provision of this section shall clearly state when the civil
penalty is due and the manner in which the violation may be appealed. Civil
citations issued under this section shall be served personally or by first-
class mail upon the violator by an APS officer or by a member of the Greenville
Police Department.
      (3)   Appeals; payment of civil penalties. Unless appealed in accordance
with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, all civil
penalties assessed for violations of any provision of this section must be paid
to and received by the revenue division of the city’s Financial Services
Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
      (4)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalties. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code , if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city’s Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
         (a)   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
         (b)   The use of a collections agency.
         (c)   The use of the provisions of G.S. Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
         (d)   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
         (e)   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect, satisfy,
or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (5)   Continuing violations. Each day’s continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-28 KEEPING FOWL.
   (A)   Up to 15 chickens, ducks, pigeons, doves, or other fowl may be kept on
any single lot, tract, or parcel in the city upon the following conditions:
      (1)   The fowl must be maintained in a chicken house or coop of suitable
construction and size for the number of fowl maintained in it.
      (2)   The owner where such houses or coops are maintained shall
thoroughly clean the same of all manure and other wastes at least twice each
week. All waste material removed from the houses or coops shall be disposed in
such a way that it does not cause odor or attract flies.
      (3)   No house or coop may be located closer than 80 feet from any parcel
or property line not owned by the fowl owner.
   (B)   Civil Penalties.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this section may be issued a
civil citation or citations, as may be required, as follows:
         (a)   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
         (b)   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
         (c)   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
      (2)   Contents and service of civil citation. A civil citation issued for
a violation of any provision of this section shall clearly state when the civil
penalty is due and the manner in which the violation may be appealed. Civil
citations issued under this section shall be served personally or by first-
class mail upon the violator by an APS officer or by a member of the Greenville
Police Department.
      (3)   Appeals; payment of civil penalties. Unless appealed in accordance
with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, all civil
penalties assessed for violations of any provision of this section must be paid
to and received by the revenue division of the city’s Financial Services
Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
      (4)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalties. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code , if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city’s Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
         (a)   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
         (b)   The use of a collections agency.
         (c)   The use of the provisions of G.S. Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
         (d)   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
         (e)   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect, satisfy,
or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (5)   Continuing violations. Each day’s continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-29 MAINTENANCE OF STABLES AND PENS.
   (A)   All persons in possession or control of any stable, corral, pen, coop,
warren, or other place where an animal is kept shall maintain such place in a
clean and sanitary condition at all times and in such a manner consistent with
all applicable law or regulatory provisions related thereto.
   (B)   All persons in possession or control of any stable, corral, pen, coop,
warren, and other place where an animal is kept shall remove all manure,
debris, and trash therefrom and spray such places with suitable disinfectant at
least once each week.
   (C)   Civil Penalties.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this section may be issued a
civil citation or citations, as may be required, as follows:
         (a)   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
         (b)   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
         (c)   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
      (2)   Contents and service of civil citation. A civil citation issued for
a violation of any provision of this section shall clearly state when the civil
penalty is due and the manner in which the violation may be appealed. Civil
citations issued under this section shall be served personally or by first-
class mail upon the violator by an APS officer or by a member of the Greenville
Police Department.
      (3)   Appeals; payment of civil penalties. Unless appealed in accordance
with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, all civil
penalties assessed for violations of any provision of this section must be paid
to and received by the revenue division of the city’s Financial Services
Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
      (4)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalties. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code , if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city’s Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
         (a)   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
         (b)   The use of a collections agency.
         (c)   The use of the provisions of G.S. Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
         (d)   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
         (e)   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect, satisfy,
or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (5)   Continuing violations. Each day’s continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-30 URBAN BEEKEEPING.
   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to encourage persons who keep bees
to properly maintain hives and comply with state regulatory requirements and
the provisions of this section.
   (A)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
      (1)   Apiary. Bees, comb, hives, appliances, or colonies, wherever they
are kept, located, or found.
      (2)   Bee(s). Insects of the superfamily Apoidea; in particular, the
honeybees, Apis mellifera (L) or any honey-producing insects of the genus Apis.
It includes all life stages of such insects, their genetic material, and dead
remains.
      (3)   Beekeeper. The person who keeps and raises bees and harvests honey.
      (4)   Front yard. The area extending across the full length of a lot from
side lot line to side lot line and lying between the abutting street right-of-
way or easement line and the building line; or in the case of a lot abutting
more than one street, the “front yard” shall include all areas extending across
the full length of a lot from property line to property line and lying between
the abutting street right-of-way or easement and building line.
      (5)   Hive(s). Any receptacle or container, or part of receptacle or
container, which is made or prepared for the use of bees or which is inhabited
by bees.
      (6)   Permit. Authorization annually issued by the Division to a
beekeeper to maintain bees for personal and family use.
   (B)   Requirements.
      (1)   No more than five hives shall be permitted on a single parcel
within the land use planning jurisdiction of the city.
      (2)   Every hive shall be placed at ground level or securely attached to
an anchor or stand. If the hive is securely attached to an anchor or stand, the
city may permit the anchor or stand to be permanently attached to a roof
surface.
      (3)   No hive shall be located in a front yard.
      (4)   All bee equipment and hives must be maintained in good order and
condition.
      (5)   The Division shall authorize the removal of any hive if the owner
no longer maintains the hive or if removal is necessary to protect the health,
safety, and welfare of the public.
   (C)   Permitting and inspection.
      (1)   No person shall, within the limits of the city, keep bees without
first obtaining a beekeeping permit from the Division.
      (2)   The beekeeping permit must be renewed annually. All beekeeping
permits will expire on December 31 of the year of issue and shall be free of
charge.
      (3)   A beekeeper's bee equipment and hives shall be inspected annually
by the Division before the issuance of a beekeeping permit.
   (D)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this section will result
in revocation of the beekeeping permit in addition to any civil penalties.
      (2)   Violations of zoning ordinance provisions will be enforced by the
City Zoning Enforcement Officers.
   (E)   Civil Penalties.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this section may be issued a
civil citation or citations, as may be required, as follows:
         (a)   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
         (b)   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
         (c)   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
      (2)   Contents and service of civil citation. A civil citation issued for
a violation of any provision of this section shall clearly state when the civil
penalty is due and the manner in which the violation may be appealed. Civil
citations issued under this section shall be served personally or by first-
class mail upon the violator by an APS officer or by a member of the Greenville
Police Department.
      (3)   Appeals; payment of civil penalties. Unless appealed in accordance
with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, all civil
penalties assessed for violations of any provision of this section must be paid
to and received by the revenue division of the city’s Financial Services
Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
      (4)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalties. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city’s Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
         (a)   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
         (b)   The use of a collections agency.
         (c)   The use of the provisions of G.S. Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
         (d)   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
         (e)   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect, satisfy,
or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (5)   Continuing violations. Each day’s continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-31 DEAD DOMESTICATED ANIMALS.
   (A)   The APS Supervisor is designated as the person whose duty it shall be
to provide for the removal and disposal of any dead domesticated animal located
within the limits of the city where the owner or owners of the animal cannot be
determined. In accordance with G.S. 106-403 in carrying out these
responsibilities, the APS Supervisor may utilize the services of other
employees of the city or may contract with a farmer, veterinarian, or any other
person capable of accomplishing the task, to remove and dispose of dead
domesticated animals.
   (B)   Civil Penalties.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this section may be issued a
civil citation or citations, as may be required, as follows:
         (a)   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
         (b)   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
         (c)   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
      (2)   Contents and service of civil citation. A civil citation issued for
a violation of any provision of this section shall clearly state when the civil
penalty is due and the manner in which the violation may be appealed. Civil
citations issued under this section shall be served personally or by first-
class mail upon the violator by an APS officer or by a member of the Greenville
Police Department.
      (3)   Appeals; payment of civil penalties. Unless appealed in accordance
with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, all civil
penalties assessed for violations of any provision of this section must be paid
to and received by the revenue division of the city’s Financial Services
Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
      (4)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalties. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city’s Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
         (a)   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
         (b)   The use of a collections agency.
         (c)   The use of the provisions of G.S. Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
         (d)   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
         (e)   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect, satisfy,
or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (5)   Continuing violations. Each day’s continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-32 INOCULATION OF ANIMALS GENERALLY.
   (A)   All dogs, cats, and ferrets in the city shall be inoculated against
rabies in accordance with G.S. 130A-185.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for an owner to fail to provide proof of current
inoculation against rabies (hydrophobia) for any dog, cat, or ferret four
months of age or older on demand of an APS officer or law enforcement officer.
A rabies inoculation shall be deemed current if two inoculations have been
given one year apart and booster doses of rabies vaccine administered every
three years thereafter.
   (C)   Any person inoculating an animal against rabies shall issue to the
owner of the animal a metal rabies vaccination tag. The rabies vaccination
shall show the year issued, a vaccination number, the words “North Carolina” or
the initials “N.C.” and the words “Rabies Vaccine.”
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a dog to allow such dog to be
within the city without the metal inoculation tag securely fastened to the
dog's collar or harness.
   (E)   Cats and ferrets shall not be required to wear the metal inoculation
tag; however, the owner of a cat or ferret shall maintain the tag or the rabies
vaccination certificate as written evidence to prove the cat or ferret has a
current rabies inoculation.
   (F)   Penalties. A violation of this section may subject the offender to any
or all of the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than $100 and not more than $500.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
issued a civil citation or citations, as may be required, as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
            2.   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            3.   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
         (b)   Contents and service of civil citation. A civil citation issued
for a violation of any provision of this section shall clearly state when the
civil penalty is due and the manner in which the violation may be appealed.
Civil citations issued under this section shall be served personally or by
first-class mail upon the violator by an APS officer or by a member of the
Greenville Police Department.
         (c)   Appeals; payment of civil penalties. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, all
civil penalties assessed for violations of any provision of this section must
be paid to and received by the revenue division of the city’s Financial
Services Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
         (d)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalties. Unless appealed
in accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city’s Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
            1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
            2.   The use of a collections agency.
            3.   The use of the provisions of G.S. Chapter 105A (The Setoff
Debt Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
            4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
            5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect,
satisfy, or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (3)   Continuing violations. Each day’s continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-33 FERAL CAT TRAP-NEUTER-RETURN PROGRAM; TNR PROGRAM.
   (A)   Organizations or individuals wishing to engage in Trap-Neuter-Return
(TNR) shall receive training provided by the Division of Animal Protective
Services and ensure the following requirements are completed for each feral cat
trapped:
      (1)   Each cat must be trapped using humane trapping techniques.
Personally owned traps may be used for TNR purposes.
      (2)   Cats must be assessed by a veterinarian and deemed to be healthy
and free of communicable diseases at the time of the spay/neuter surgery.
      (3)   Cats must be spayed or neutered.
      (4)   While undergoing the spay or neuter surgery, each cat must be
vaccinated with at least one dose of vaccine against rabies, Feline Viral
Rhinotracheitis, Calicivirus and Panleukopenia (FVRCP), and any additional
vaccinations recommended by the veterinarian performing the surgery.
      (5)   Cats must be ear tipped. A tipped ear will identify the cat as
having received at least one dose of each vaccination described herein.
      (6)   Cat bites must be reported to the Division within 24 hours of the
bite. The organization or individual shall assist the Division in the capture
of the cat and surrender the cat to the Division for a rabies quarantine.
      (7)   Feeding of a registered TNR colony shall be allowed under the
strict adherence of a maximum 30-minute feeding schedule and documented on the
TNR tracking form. After the feeding of the colony, all food bowls and uneaten
food shall be removed.
      (8)   Cats entering the TNR program must be documented for tracking
purposes by the TNR caregiver using the Division's TNR tracking form. The
veterinarian performing the procedures outlined in this section must sign the
tracking form. The completed forms must be turned in to the Division for review
and statistical purposes.
      (9)   The individual or organization engaging in TNR shall be responsible
for all costs and expenses while engaging in these activities.
      (10)   The TNR caregiver shall be considered the owner in accordance with
this chapter and shall be responsible for the cats within the TNR colony.
      (11)   A cat in the TNR colony shall be removed from the colony and city
if deemed to be a public nuisance in accordance with this chapter.
      (12)   A TNR colony shall be removed from the city if deemed to be a
public nuisance in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   Failure to comply with the requirements of this section shall be
grounds for immediate revocation of the privilege of participation in any TNR
program.
   (C)   Civil Penalties.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this section may be issued a
civil citation or citations, as may be required, as follows:
         (a)   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
         (b)   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
         (c)   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
      (2)   Contents and service of civil citation. A civil citation issued for
a violation of any provision of this section shall clearly state when the civil
penalty is due and the manner in which the violation may be appealed. Civil
citations issued under this section shall be served personally or by first-
class mail upon the violator by an APS officer or by a member of the Greenville
Police Department.
      (3)   Appeals; payment of civil penalties. Unless appealed in accordance
with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, all civil
penalties assessed for violations of any provision of this section must be paid
to and received by the revenue division of the city’s Financial Services
Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
      (4)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalties. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city’s Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
         (a)   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
         (b)   The use of a collections agency.
         (c)   The use of the provisions of G.S. Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
         (d)   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
         (e)   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect, satisfy,
or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (5)   Continuing violations. Each day’s continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-34 ANIMAL TRAPS AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC.
   (A)   The Division is authorized to make animal traps available to members
of the public under the conditions stated in this section.
   (B)   Live-capture animal traps provided by the city may be used only under
the following conditions:
      (1)   All traps must be checked at least once every 12 hours by the
person who requested the trap.
      (2)   Traps may be checked out for a one-week period, which may be
extended for a second week at the discretion of the Division.
      (3)   Persons who desire to check out any trap must complete an
application provided by the Division.
      (4)   Should the trap be damaged while in the possession of the public,
the person in possession of the trap shall be responsible for reimbursing the
city for damages.
      (5)   The person who requested the trap shall immediately notify the
Division of any animal captured in the trap.
   (C)   Failure to comply with the requirements of this section shall be
grounds for immediate revocation of the privilege of using a city-owned live-
capture animal trap or participation in any trap, neuter and return program.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-35 ANIMAL BITE NOTIFICATION; BITES UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   Bite Unlawful. It shall be unlawful for an animal to bite a human
being when that human being does not ordinarily reside on the animal owner’s
property unless the animal has been provoked or unless the bite victim was
trespassing upon the animal owner’s property at or near the time of the bite.
   (B)   Reporting Bite.
      (1)   When a person has been bitten by any animal, the person, or parent,
guardian, or person standing in loco parentis of the person, and the animal’s
owner shall notify the Division immediately and give the name and address of
the person bitten and the name and address of the animal’s owner, if known or
can be ascertained.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to inform the Division
of the location to which an animal that has bitten a human being has been
taken, if the owner has given the animal away, or caused in any way the animal
to be taken from the owner’s premises.
   (C)   Penalties. A violation of this section may subject the offender to any
or all of the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than $100 and not more than $500.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
issued a civil citation or citations, as may be required, as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
            2.   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            3.   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
         (b)   Contents and service of civil citation. A civil citation issued
for a violation of any provision of this section shall clearly state when the
civil penalty is due and the manner in which the violation may be appealed.
Civil citations issued under this section shall be served personally or by
first-class mail upon the violator by an APS officer or by a member of the
Greenville Police Department.
         (c)   Appeals; payment of civil penalties. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, all
civil penalties assessed for violations of any provision of this section must
be paid to and received by the revenue division of the city’s Financial
Services Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
         (d)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalties. Unless appealed
in accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city’s Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
            1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
            2.   The use of a collections agency.
            3.   The use of the provisions of G.S. Chapter 105A (The Setoff
Debt Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
            4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
            5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect,
satisfy, or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (3)   Continuing violations. Each day’s continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-36 SUMMARY DESTRUCTION OF ANIMALS THAT CANNOT BE SEIZED BY REASONABLE
MEANS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, any inherently
dangerous animal or any animal that is determined to be dangerous or who is
attacking a human being or animal and that cannot be seized, retrieved,
humanely trapped, or tranquilized through reasonable means may be summarily
destroyed, if such destruction is necessary for the protection of life or
property or for the public health and safety.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-37 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   Prohibited generally; exceptions. It shall be unlawful to own, keep,
or harbor a public nuisance animal within the corporate limits of the city.
Provided, however, it shall not be unlawful to own or keep a dog of vicious
tendencies for the protection of persons or property, if such dog is securely
confined in a manner not to expose it to the general public. This exception for
dogs of vicious tendencies does not extend to dogs which excessively make
disturbing noises or animals deemed as dangerous or vicious.
   (B)   Complaint and notice. Upon receipt of a written, detailed, and signed
complaint being made to the Division by any resident or residents that any
person is maintaining a public nuisance as defined in Section
12-2-1 of this chapter, the APS Supervisor shall cause the owner of the animal
(s) in question to be notified that a complaint has been received and shall
cause the situation complained of to be investigated and a report and findings
thereon to be reduced to writing by the investigating APS officer.
   (C)   Determination and abatement. If the written findings of the
investigating APS officer indicate that the complaint is justified, then the
APS Supervisor shall cause the owner of the animal(s) in question to be so
notified in writing, by certified mail, return receipt requested, of a
determination which shall order the abatement of such nuisance within seven
days after the date of the notification of the determination, and shall issue a
citation to the owner of the animal(s) for the violation. In the event the
owner of the animal(s) is unknown and cannot be ascertained, the determination,
along with a general description of the animal(s) shall be published within a
local newspaper or electronic news outlet and also on the city's website.
   (D)   Impoundment upon failure to abate. If any person receiving a
determination in the manner hereinabove described shall fail or refuse to abate
the nuisance as ordered by the APS Supervisor within the specified time, the
APS Supervisor may cause the animal(s) in question to be seized and impounded
in accordance with the provisions of section
12-2-11 of this chapter.
   (E)   Right of appeal. An animal owner may appeal the determination of the
APS Supervisor in accordance with the provisions of Section
12-2-16.
   (F)   Reclamation; destruction. If the owner shall so request, the animal(s)
may be reclaimed pursuant to the provisions of section
12-2-10. The APS Supervisor may require as a condition of abatement and
reclamation that the owner execute a written agreement providing the specific
conditions of abatement necessary to comply with the determination and order of
abatement issued in accordance with this section. If the owner fails to execute
the written agreement, or fails to reclaim the animal(s) at issue, within the
time specified under section
12-2-10, then the animal shall be disposed of in accordance with the provisions
of section
12-2-10.
   (G)   Penalties. A violation of this section may subject the offender to any
or all of the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than $100 and not more than $500.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
issued a civil citation or citations, as may be required, as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
            2.   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            3.   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
         (b)   Contents and service of civil citation. A civil citation issued
for a violation of any provision of this section shall clearly state when the
civil penalty is due and the manner in which the violation may be appealed.
Civil citations issued under this section shall be served personally or by
first-class mail upon the violator by an APS officer or by a member of the
Greenville Police Department.
         (c)   Appeals; payment of civil penalties. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, all
civil penalties assessed for violations of any provision of this section must
be paid to and received by the revenue division of the city’s Financial
Services Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
         (d)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalties. Unless appealed
in accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city’s Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
            1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
            2.   The use of a collections agency.
            3.   The use of the provisions of G.S. Chapter 105A (The Setoff
Debt Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
            4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
            5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect,
satisfy, or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (3)   Continuing violations. Each day’s continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-38 RESTRAINT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or person to permit or negligently
allow any domesticated animal to run at large, provided that a domesticated
animal may be off the owner's real property if the domesticated animal is under
physical restraint.
   (B)   Penalties. A violation of this section may subject the offender to any
or all of the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than $100 and not more than $500.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
issued a civil citation or citations, as may be required, as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
            2.   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            3.   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
         (b)   Contents and service of civil citation. A civil citation issued
for a violation of any provision of this section shall clearly state when the
civil penalty is due and the manner in which the violation may be appealed.
Civil citations issued under this section shall be served personally or by
first-class mail upon the violator by an APS officer or by a member of the
Greenville Police Department.
         (c)   Appeals; payment of civil penalties. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, all
civil penalties assessed for violations of any provision of this section must
be paid to and received by the revenue division of the city’s Financial
Services Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
         (d)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalties. Unless appealed
in accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city’s Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
            1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
            2.   The use of a collections agency.
            3.   The use of the provisions of G.S. Chapter 105A (The Setoff
Debt Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
            4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
            5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect,
satisfy, or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (3)   Continuing violations. Each day’s continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-39 DEFECATION.
   (A)   Public property. It shall be unlawful for any animal owner to fail to
immediately remove feces deposited by the animal on any street, sidewalk, park,
or other city or publicly owned area.
   (B)   Private property. It shall be unlawful for any animal owner to fail to
immediately remove feces deposited by the animal on any private property unless
the owner of the property has given permission allowing such use of the
property.
   (C)   Penalties. A violation of this section may subject the offender to any
or all of the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than $100 and not more than $500.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
issued a civil citation or citations, as may be required, as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
            2.   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            3.   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
         (b)   Contents and service of civil citation. A civil citation issued
for a violation of any provision of this section shall clearly state when the
civil penalty is due and the manner in which the violation may be appealed.
Civil citations issued under this section shall be served personally or by
first-class mail upon the violator by an APS officer or by a member of the
Greenville Police Department.
         (c)   Appeals; payment of civil penalties. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, all
civil penalties assessed for violations of any provision of this section must
be paid to and received by the revenue division of the city’s Financial
Services Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
         (d)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalties. Unless appealed
in accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city’s Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
            1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
            2.   The use of a collections agency.
            3.   The use of the provisions of G.S. Chapter 105A (The Setoff
Debt Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
            4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
            5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect,
satisfy, or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (3)   Continuing violations. Each day’s continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-40 RESERVED.
SEC. 12-2-41 INTERFERENCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, obstruct,
hinder, or molest the APS Division or its officers, agents, or veterinarians in
the performance of any duty authorized by this chapter, or release, attempt to
release, or procure another to release or attempt to release any animal in the
custody of the Division except as is provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Penalties. A violation of this section may subject the offender to any
or all of the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than $100 and not more than $500.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
issued a civil citation or citations, as may be required, as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
            2.   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            3.   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
         (b)   Contents and service of civil citation. A civil citation issued
for a violation of any provision of this section shall clearly state when the
civil penalty is due and the manner in which the violation may be appealed.
Civil citations issued under this section shall be served personally or by
first-class mail upon the violator by an APS officer or by a member of the
Greenville Police Department.
         (c)   Appeals; payment of civil penalties. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, all
civil penalties assessed for violations of any provision of this section must
be paid to and received by the revenue division of the city’s Financial
Services Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
         (d)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalties. Unless appealed
in accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city’s Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
            1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
            2.   The use of a collections agency.
            3.   The use of the provisions of G.S. Chapter 105A (The Setoff
Debt Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
            4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
            5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect,
satisfy, or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (3)   Continuing violations. Each day’s continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-42 PROHIBITION AGAINST GIVEAWAYS IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to display any animal in a public place for the
purpose of selling or giving the animal away. This section does not apply to
the display of animals by and within a pet shop, commercial kennel, animal
welfare organization, or veterinarian's office.
   (B)   Penalties. A violation of this section may subject the offender to any
or all of the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than $100 and not more than $500.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
issued a civil citation or citations, as may be required, as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
            2.   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            3.   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
         (b)   Contents and service of civil citation. A civil citation issued
for a violation of any provision of this section shall clearly state when the
civil penalty is due and the manner in which the violation may be appealed.
Civil citations issued under this section shall be served personally or by
first-class mail upon the violator by an APS officer or by a member of the
Greenville Police Department.
         (c)   Appeals; payment of civil penalties. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, all
civil penalties assessed for violations of any provision of this section must
be paid to and received by the revenue division of the city’s Financial
Services Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
         (d)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalties. Unless appealed
in accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city’s Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
            1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
            2.   The use of a collections agency.
            3.   The use of the provisions of G.S. Chapter 105A (The Setoff
Debt Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
            4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
            5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect,
satisfy, or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (3)   Continuing violations. Each day’s continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
SEC. 12-2-43 BIRD SANCTUARY.
   (A)   A bird sanctuary is created and established within the corporate
limits of the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt, kill, trap, or otherwise
take any protected bird within the corporate limits of the city except pursuant
to a permit issued by the North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commission under
G.S. 113-274(c)(la) or under any other license or permit of the Wildlife
Resources Commission specifically made valid for use within the city limits.
For the purpose of this section, a protected bird means any bird except a bird
classed as a pest under G.S. Chapter 113, Article 22A (the Use of Poisons and
Pesticides), G.S. Chapter 106, Article 4C (the Structural Pest Control Act of
North Carolina of 1955) or G.S. Chapter 143, Article 52 (the North Carolina
Pesticide Law of 1971).
   (C)   Penalties. A violation of this section may subject the offender to any
or all of the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than $100 and not more than $500.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
issued a civil citation or citations, as may be required, as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
            2.   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            3.   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
         (b)   Contents and service of civil citation. A civil citation issued
for a violation of any provision of this section shall clearly state when the
civil penalty is due and the manner in which the violation may be appealed.
Civil citations issued under this section shall be served personally or by
first-class mail upon the violator by an APS officer or by a member of the
Greenville Police Department.
         (c)   Appeals; payment of civil penalties. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, all
civil penalties assessed for violations of any provision of this section must
be paid to and received by the revenue division of the city’s Financial
Services Department within five business days from the date of issuance.
         (d)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalties. Unless appealed
in accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city’s Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
            1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
            2.   The use of a collections agency.
            3.   The use of the provisions of G.S. Chapter 105A (The Setoff
Debt Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
            4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
            5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect,
satisfy, or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (3)   Continuing violations. Each day’s continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, passed 5-23-2022)
CHAPTER 3: WEEDS, VEGETATION AND OTHER PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCES
Section
Article A. Nuisances
   
12-3-1   Definitions
   
12-3-2   Weeding and tidying of premises, cutting of right-of-way; required
   
12-3-3   Enforcement
   
12-3-4   Nuisances prohibited; enumeration
   
12-3-5   Enforcement authority; right of entry
   
12-3-6   Notice to abate; emergency abatement by the city
   
12-3-7   Service of notice
   
12-3-8   Chronic violator
   
12-3-9   Abatement by city where the owner fails to abate
   
12-3-10   Appeal of determination of nuisance; abatement
   
12-3-11   Penalties
Article B. Flood Damaged Manufactured Homes
   
12-3-21   Nuisance prohibited
   
12-3-22   Nuisance abatement procedures
   
12-3-23   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
12-3-24   Board of Adjustment to hear appeals
Article C. Graffiti
   
12-3-31   Definitions
   
12-3-32   Graffiti as nuisance; purpose of article; authority of Division
   
12-3-33   Engaging in graffiti unlawful; penalties
   
12-3-34   Graffiti abatement procedures; penalties
Statutory reference:
   Abatement of public health nuisances, see G.S. 160A-193
   General ordinance-making power, see G.S. 160A-174
ARTICLE A. NUISANCES
SEC. 12-3-1 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, and their derivatives, when used in
this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   Building materials. Lumber, brick, stone carpet, plumbing materials,
plaster, concrete, roofing, floor coverings, gutters or other materials or
substances suitable for or commonly used in the construction or repair of
houses, commercial buildings and other structures, driveways, fences, decks,
landings, patios, porches or carports.
   Building rubbish. Rubbish from construction, remodeling, and repair
operations on houses, commercial buildings, and other structures, including but
not limited to stones, brick, plaster, lumber, concrete, and waste parts
occasioned by installations and replacements.
   Combustible refuse. Refuse, capable of incineration or burning, such as
garbage, paper, rags, boxes and wood.
   Chronic violator. A person who owns property whereupon, in the previous
calendar year, the city abated a nuisance as defined in section
12-3-4 on at least three occasions.
   Firewood. Parts of trees cut into logs suitable for use in fireplaces or for
use in wood-burning heaters which are not rotten or decayed.
   Garbage. The accumulation of solid waste, trash, yard waste, recyclables or
junk which produces offensive, noxious or foul odors or vapors or which
provides refuge or sustenance for rodents, harmful insects or other pests.
   Harmful insects. Mosquitoes, ticks, fleas and flies and other arthropods
which can be living transporters and transmitters of a causative agent of a
disease.
   Heavily wooded lot. A lot so densely covered with trees and undergrowth that
equipment cannot maneuver.
   Junk. Any furniture, appliances, machinery, equipment, building fixture,
automotive parts, tires, or other similar items which are either in a wholly or
partially rusted, wrecked, dismantled, or inoperative condition.
   Litter. Any discarded man-made materials, including but not limited to,
garbage, rubbish, trash, refuse, can, bottle, box, container, wrapper, paper,
paper product, tire, appliance, mechanical equipment or part, building or
construction material, tool, machinery, wood, or motor vehicle parts, solid
waste material, industrial materials and hazardous waste, or discarded material
in any form resulting from domestic, industrial, commercial, medical or
agricultural operations.
   Noxious vegetation. Plants that cause dermatitis through direct or indirect
contact or plants that cause internal poisoning if eaten or ingested, including
but not limited to poison sumac, poison ivy or poison oak.
   Nuisance. Any condition that is dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health or public safety.
   Open place. An area of property or portion thereof that is open, including
building openings or residential units that are open to the exterior, such as
attached carports, or porches, and any other exterior portions of properties
ordinarily exposed to public view.
   Ornamental grasses. True grasses (Gramineae) including close relatives such
as sedges (Cyperaceae), rushes (Juncaceae), hardy bamboos (particularly the
genus Phyllostachys), and others.
   Owner. Any person, group of persons, or any entity owning or lawfully
possessing, keeping, or having care, custody, or control of any property
covered by this article. In the case of real property, the owner includes the
authorized agent or property manager of the owner or any tenant.
   Pest. Any destructive or troublesome insect or small animal.
   Refuse. Ashes, tin cans, dirty rags, trash, house sweepings, paper, paper
cups, shavings, bottles and other rubbish.
   Verified violation. Means a violation of section 12-3-4(B), (C) or (D), of
the City of Greenville Code as designated and determined by the Code
Enforcement Supervisor or officer.
   Weed. Any undesired, uncultivated plant.
   Yard waste. Grass, weeds, leaves, tree trimmings, plants, shrubbery pruning,
and such other similar materials which are generated in the maintenance of
yards and gardens.
(Ord. No. 23-083, § 1, passed 12-14-2023; Ord. No. 24-061, § 1, passed 11-14-
2024)
SEC. 12-3-2 WEEDING AND TIDYING OF PREMISES, CUTTING OF RIGHT-OF-WAY; REQUIRED.
   Any person owning real property within the city is hereby required to
maintain both the property and adjoining right-of-way under the following
criteria:
   (A)   Before any weeds and grass reach a height of ten inches;
   (B)   Prevent any weeds and grass from encroaching upon the sidewalk,
driveway, or the curb or edge of the pavement of the abutting street;
   (C)   To keep such property and right-of-way free from trash and refuse
matter at all times; and
   (D)   To keep such property and right-of-way free from the conditions
enumerated in section
12-3-4.
(Ord. No. 97-114, § 1, passed 10-9-1997; Ord. No. 06-127, § 1, passed 12-14-
2006; Ord. No. 23-083, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 12-3-3 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Code Enforcement Division of the city shall be responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter. The Code Enforcement Supervisor
or officer(s) are authorized to exercise such powers as may be necessary to
carry out the intent and provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 97-89, § 5, passed 8-14-1997; Ord. No. 97-114, § 1, passed 10-9-1997;
Ord. No. 06-75, §§ 3, 4, passed 8-10-2006; Ord. No. 23-083, § 1, passed 12-14-
2023)
SEC. 12-3-4 NUISANCES PROHIBITED; ENUMERATION.
   The following enumerated and described conditions are hereby found, deemed
and declared to constitute a detriment, danger and hazard to the public health
and the public safety of the inhabitants of the city and are found, deemed and
declared to be public nuisances wherever the same may exist, and the creation,
maintenance or failure to abate any nuisances is hereby declared unlawful:
   (A)   Any condition which is a breeding ground or harbor for rodents,
harmful insects, or other pests;
   (B)   A place of dense growth of weeds, grass or other noxious vegetation
exceeding ten inches in height, provided this condition shall not apply to
those lands certified, dedicated or designated by the city or other appropriate
governmental agency as vegetative buffer, floodplain, stream buffer, open space
or other natural or environmentally sensitive area established to protect the
public or protect and preserve natural greenways, floodways, streams or water
quality. The following exceptions shall also apply for lots exceeding one acre
in size:
      (1)   These lots shall be maintained to a depth of 20 feet from the
improved road surface for all dense growth and noxious vegetation.
      (2)   If and only if the adjacent property is occupied by a building or
structure, lots exceeding one acre or vacant undeveloped lots shall be
maintained to a depth of 100 feet from the side and rear property lines for all
dense growth and noxious vegetation;
   (C)   The growth of shrubs, vines or other vegetation on one’s commercial or
residential lot in such a manner as to allow such shrubs, vines or other
vegetation to become a breeding ground or harbor for rodents, harmful insects
or other pests, a collecting place for trash and litter, or a fire hazard. This
subsection does not apply to lots using shrubs, vines or vegetation as a
perimeter wall or barrier as long as such does not become a nuisance;
   (D)   A concentrated growth of kudzu, poison sumac (Rhus vernix), poison ivy
(Rhus radicans), poison oak (Rhus toxicondendron) or other noxious vegetation,
other than kudzu or noxious vegetation growing in a heavily wooded lot unless
such growth from the heavily wooded lot is:
      (1)   Encroaching upon any adjoining property with a building or
structure. Removal of any noxious vegetation found overhanging onto adjoining
properties shall be the responsibility of said adjoining property owner(s);
      (2)   Encroaching upon the sidewalk, the driveway, or the curb or edge of
the pavement of any abutting street; or
      (3)   A focal point for any other nuisance enumerated in this Code;
   (E)   Any concentration of rubbish, trash, junk, mattresses, boxes, old
clothes, rags or any other combustible material or objects of like kind causing
or threatening to cause a fire hazard; or causing or threatening to cause the
accumulation of stagnant water; or causing or threatening to cause the
inhabitation therein of mosquitoes, rats, mice, snakes or vermin of any kind,
or any other condition which poses a public health nuisance or safety hazard;
   (F)   Any accumulation of fallen trees, dead trees, sections of tree trunks
or tree limbs on a parcel of land, provided this condition shall not apply to
natural accumulations on parcels of land or portions thereof that are
considered a heavily wooded lot;
   (G)   The open storage of building material, firewood or other similar
materials not elevated a minimum of six inches off the ground;
   (H)   An open place of collection of garbage, food waste, animal waste, yard
waste or any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind; however, nothing
in this subsection shall be construed to prevent the generally accepted use of
a properly maintained compost pile or storage of animal manure being used as
fertilizer for lawns and gardens and for other agricultural or horticultural
purposes;
   (I)   Any household or office furniture, appliances or other metal products
of any kind kept in open places or any indoor upholstered furniture kept
outside in a location exposed to the weather; likewise, plywood board;
construction materials; saw horses; tubes and pipes; or rigid materials
suspended between two supports so as to be used as a table in any yard, alley,
front porch, or in any other outside area viewed from a public street or
walkway, alley, or other public property;
   (J)   Any products which have jagged edges of metal or glass or areas of
confinement kept in open places;
   (K) The presence, accumulation, storage or placement of junk, including but
not limited to, deteriorated, unusable or inoperative furniture, appliances,
machinery, equipment, building materials, worn out and disused automobiles or
parts, tires or any other man-made items which are either in whole, or in part,
wrecked, junked, disused, worn out, dismantled or inoperative.
      (1)   Storage of junk shall only be allowed on any properties used for
nonresidential purposes if completely enclosed within a building or otherwise
evenly placed or neatly stacked and concealed by a solid fence, cover or other
means so as to not be visible at the property line from abutting properties or
a public street.
      (2)   Storage of junk shall only be allowed on any property used for
residential purposes if completely stored in an enclosed building or completely
concealed by a solid fence, cover or other means so as not to be visible at the
property line from abutting properties or a public street, concentrated in one
area within the rear yard and neatly arranged or stacked so as not to exceed
six feet in height.
      (3)   Whether stored on a residential or nonresidential property such
storage of junk shall be maintained in such a manner so as to prevent overgrown
grass or weeds or an infestation of wild animals, reptiles, rodents or harmful
insects;
   (L)   Any swimming pool of any size and/or its accessories located in the
front and/or side yard. This also includes but is not limited to, pools,
located on any part of the property, with stagnant water, debris, dead animals
or structural deficiencies.
   (M)   Any condition whereby any fence, sign, billboard, shrubbery, bush,
tree, mailbox or other object or combination of objects which obstructs the
view of motorists using any street, private driveway or approach to any street
intersection adjacent to and abutting such and so as to constitute a traffic
hazard as a condition dangerous to public safety upon any such street, private
driveway or at any such street intersection;
   (N)   Any fence or perimeter wall, as determined by the Director of Planning
and Development Services or their designee, which through neglect, lack of
repair, type or manner of construction, method of placement or otherwise,
becomes undesirable or constitutes a hazard or endangers any person, animal or
property;
   (O)   Any improper or inadequate drainage, as determined by the City
Engineer, on private property which causes flooding, interferes with the use of
or endangers in any way the streets, sidewalks, parks or other city-owned
property of any kind;
   (P)   Any condition, as determined by the City Engineer, which blocks,
hinders or obstructs in any way the natural flow of branches, streams, creeks,
surface waters, ditches or drains;
   (Q)   Any stormwater retention or impoundment device which is operating
improperly, as determined by the City Engineer;
   (R)   Any unlawful disposal, placement, emptying, dumping, spillage,
leakage, pumping, pouring, emission or other discharge of any substance other
than stormwater, unless associated with permitted activity as identified in
section
9-9-16(A), into a stormwater conveyance, the waters of the state or upon the
land in such proximity to the same, such that the substance is likely to reach
a stormwater conveyance or the waters of the state or any unlawful connection
that allows the discharge of non-stormwater to the stormwater conveyance system
or waters of the state in violation of Chapter 9 of Title 9 of the Greenville
City Code;
   (S)   A condition which occurs when a tenant leaves leased property either
voluntarily or involuntarily (including but not limited to ejectment or other
landlord removal action) and leaves or abandons trash, debris and property and
the owner or property manager fails to remove the trash, debris or property
from the leased property within 24 hours after the voluntary or involuntary
removal of the tenant;
   (T)   Any place of growth of shrubs, trees or other vegetation that impedes
public safety vehicle and firefighting equipment ingress and egress in the
following locations that are utilized as public safety vehicle and firefighting
equipment access routes and areas: private street easements, private drives,
parking lots and/or drive isles, fire hydrant easements, designated fire lanes
or other public vehicular areas;
   (U)   Nuisance vehicle violation(s) as regulated by G.S. 160A-303; provided,
the process for abating the nuisance vehicle shall be as provided for in Title
12, Chapter 4 of this Code;
(Ord. No. 06-127, §§ 2, 3, passed 12-14-2006; Ord. No. 09-03, § 1, 2, passed 1-
8-2009; Ord. No. 09-39, § 4, 5, passed 5-14-2009; Ord. No. 21-010, § 3, passed
2-15-2021; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023; Ord. No. 23-083, § 1, passed
12-14-2023; Ord. No. 24-061, § 1, passed 11-14-2024)
SEC. 12-3-5 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It is the duty of the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer to enforce all
of the provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specified, and he or she
shall have such powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and
effectuate the purpose and provisions of this chapter, including the authority
to make all inspections necessary to determine whether the provisions of this
chapter are being met. The Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer shall be
authorized to enter upon and within premises and buildings for the purpose of
making examinations and investigations; provided that such entries shall be
made at reasonable hours in such a manner as to cause the least possible
inconvenience to persons in possession or by obtaining an administrative
inspection warrant, if necessary, as provided in G.S. 15-27.2.
(Ord. No. 23-083, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 12-3-6 NOTICE TO ABATE; EMERGENCY ABATEMENT BY THE CITY.
   If any person shall violate the provisions of section
12-3-4, it shall be the duty of the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer to
give notice to the owner and property manager, if known, or to any person in
possession of the subject property, as provided by section
12-3-7, directing that all unlawful conditions existing thereupon be abated
within ten days from the date of such notice is received; provided, that if, in
the opinion of the Code Enforcement Supervisor, the unlawful condition is such
that it is of imminent danger or peril to the public, then the Code Enforcement
Supervisor may, without notice, authorize the unlawful condition be abated, and
the cost thereof shall be charged against the property as is provided in
section
12-3-9.
(Ord. No. 23-083, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 12-3-7 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Notices or orders issued by the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer under
this article shall be served on the owner and property manager, if known, of
the identified property by either personal delivery or by registered or
certified mail and regular mail. Service by mail shall be deemed complete by
depositing the notice or order in the mail at the address listed in the Pitt
County tax records. When the manner of service is by registered or certified
mail and regular mail and the registered or certified mail is unclaimed or
refused, but the regular mail is not returned by the post office within ten
days of mailing, service is deemed sufficient. The person mailing the notice or
order by regular mail shall certify that fact and the date of mailing and such
certification shall be conclusive evidence of service in the absence of fraud.
(Ord. No. 23-083, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 12-3-8 CHRONIC VIOLATOR.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section and in accordance
with G.S. 160A-200.1, the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer may notify a
chronic violator that if the chronic violator’s property is determined to be a
nuisance as defined in section
12-3-4, the city shall, without further notice in the calendar year in which
the notice is given, take action to remedy the violation and the expense of the
action shall become a lien upon the property and shall be collected as unpaid
taxes.
   (B)   In accordance with G.S. 160A-200.1(b), notice shall be served by
registered or certified mail. When service is attempted by registered or
certified mail, a copy of the notice may also be sent by regular mail. Service
shall be deemed sufficient if the registered or certified mail is unclaimed or
refused, but the regular mail is not returned by the post office within ten
days after the mailing. If service by regular mail is used, a copy of the
notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected.
   (C)   A chronic violator’s property is no longer determined chronic when
there have been no verified violations within 12 months of the last verified
violation.
(Ord. No. 23-083, § 1, passed 12-14-2023; Ord. No. 24-061, § 1, passed 11-14-
2024)
SEC. 12-3-9 ABATEMENT BY CITY WHERE THE OWNER FAILS TO ABATE.
   (A)   Upon the failure of the owner or person in possession of any premises
to abate any unlawful condition existing thereupon within the time prescribed
by section 12-3-6, it shall be the duty of the Code Enforcement Supervisor or
officer to cause the removal and abatement of such unlawful condition
therefrom.
   (B)   Upon the completion of such removal and abatement, the Code
Enforcement Supervisor or officer shall deliver to the city collector a
statement showing the actual cost of the abatement of the unlawful condition
plus an additional fee to cover the cost of notice and cost of collection. The
city collector shall thereupon mail to the owner of the subject property a bill
covering the cost, if with reasonable diligence the name and address of such
owner can be ascertained, and the amount of the bill shall become a lien upon
the subject property, and if not paid with 30 days shall be collected as in the
manner provided for the collection of delinquent taxes.
   (C)   The expense of the action is also a lien on any other real property
owned by the person in default within the city limits or within one mile of the
city limits, except for the person's primary residence. A lien established
pursuant to this section is inferior to all prior liens and shall be collected
as a money judgment. This section shall not apply if the person in default can
show that the nuisance was created solely by the actions of another.
   (D)   A Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer shall have the following
authority:
      (1)   To enter upon or authorize an agent to enter upon and clean up
premises in violation of this article;
      (2)   To utilize the services of an outside contractor to clean up
premises in violation of this article.
   (E)   Where a public nuisance as identified in section
12-3-4(S) exists, the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer may cause the
abatement or removal of the nuisance without further notice to the owner and
property manager, if known, of the identified property.
(Ord. No. 23-083, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 12-3-10 APPEAL OF DETERMINATION OF NUISANCE; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Within the period for abatement specified on the notice of violation,
the property owner or other responsible person(s) may request in writing a
review of the nuisance determination by the Code Enforcement Supervisor. Unless
the unlawful conditions are dangerous so as to require summary abatement per
section
12-3-6, such written request shall stay the abatement of the nuisance by the
city until the completion of the review by the Code Enforcement Supervisor. In
the event no appeal is taken, the city may proceed to abate the nuisance.
   (B)   Within ten days of receiving a request for review, the Code
Enforcement Supervisor shall hold a hearing to review the nuisance
determination. At this hearing, all interested persons shall be heard and may
offer evidence and be represented by an attorney. The hearing shall be
conducted in an informal manner to determine whether there is a sufficient
legal and factual basis to affirm the nuisance determination, and the rules of
evidence shall not apply; provided, that the decision of the Code Enforcement
Supervisor shall be based upon substantial and reliable evidence. If, following
the hearing, the Code Enforcement Supervisor upholds the findings, and declares
the condition existing on the property to be a danger and hazard to the health,
safety, and general welfare of the inhabitants of the city and a public
nuisance, the Code Enforcement Supervisor shall issue a written order directing
the property owner or other responsible person to abate the nuisance within ten
days and if the nuisance is not abated by the property owner, directing the
Code Enforcement Officer to abate the condition constituting a nuisance.
   (C)   Within a period of five days after the determination of the Code
Enforcement Supervisor, the property owner or other responsible person(s) may
request in writing a review of the Code Enforcement Supervisor’s determination
to the Director of Neighborhood and Business Services or their designee. Unless
the unlawful condition(s) is/are dangerous so as to require summary abatement
per section
12-3-6, such written request shall stay the abatement of the nuisance by the
city until the completion of the review by the Director of Neighborhood and
Business Services or their designee. In the event no appeal is taken, the city
may proceed to abate the nuisance.
   (D)   If the property owner or other responsible person(s) wish to appeal
the determination of the Director of Neighborhood and Business Services or
their designee, they shall do so in writing to the Board of Adjustment. Such
appeal shall be within 30 days of the date of determination. Appeals of a
decision by the Board of Adjustment shall be as provided by law.
   (E)   If a nuisance is found to exist, the responsibility for abatement
shall rest with the property owner and any other responsible person(s).
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the property owner or other
responsible parties from abating the nuisance in question in accordance with
the notice of violation prior to any requested review pursuant to this section.
(Ord. No. 23-083, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 12-3-11 PENALTIES.
   (A)   An owner that fails to comply with an order to abate any unlawful
condition described in section
12-3-4 shall be subject to civil penalties in an amount as follows:
      (1)   First violation. A violation of any of the provisions of this Code
of Ordinances shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $100.
      (2)   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A second
violation by the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation
shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
      (3)   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations by the violator
within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject the violator
to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
   (B)   Appeals; payment of civil penalty. Unless appealed in accordance with
section
1-1-20 of the City Code, a civil penalty assessed for a violation of any
provision of this Code of Ordinances must be paid to and received by the
revenue division of the city’s Financial Services Department within five
business days from the date of issuance.
   (C)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with the appeal provisions in accordance with section
1-1-20 of the City Code, if full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not
timely received by the revenue division of the city’s Financial Services
Department, the city may recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the
following methods:
      (1)   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
      (2)   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
      (3)   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
      (4)   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (5)   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect, satisfy, or
otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
   (D)   Separate offenses. Each violation of any provision of this Code of
Ordinances and each day that a violation continues is considered a separate
offense.
(Ord. No. 23-083, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
ARTICLE B. FLOOD DAMAGED MANUFACTURED HOMES
SEC. 12-3-21 NUISANCE PROHIBITED.
   Any manufactured home which has been damaged as a result of a flood and
which has been declared by a building inspector to be unsafe due to it being in
a condition, whether boarded up or not, that constitutes a fire or safety
hazard or renders it dangerous to life, health or other property, either upon
the property where the manufactured home is located or other property within
the vicinity, is hereby found, deemed and declared to constitute a detriment,
danger and hazard to the health or safety of the citizens of the city, and
within one mile thereof, and is found, deemed and declared to be a public
nuisance.
(Ord. No. 00-20, §§ 1, 2, passed 2-10-2000)
SEC. 12-3-22 NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEDURES.
   When any public nuisance as set out in§
12-3-21 is found to exist on any property within the city, or within one mile
thereof, the following procedure shall be followed:
   (A)   Whenever a determination by a building inspector is filed with the
Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer that a public nuisance as set out in§
12-3-21 is found to exist on any property, the Code Enforcement Supervisor or
officer shall cause to be served upon the owner and the parties in interest in
the manufactured home and of the premises where the nuisance is located a
notice stating the determination and containing a notice that a hearing will be
held before the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer at a place therein
fixed, not less than ten days nor more than 30 days after the mailing of the
notice. The owner or any party in interest shall have the right to file an
answer and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give testimony at the place
and time fixed in the notice. Any person desiring to do so may attend the
hearing and give evidence relevant to the matter being heard. The rules of
evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in
hearings before the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer.
   (B)   If the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer determines, after such
notice and hearing, that a public nuisance exists, the Code Enforcement
Supervisor or officer shall notify the owner of the manufactured home and of
the premises where the nuisance is located that conditions exist which
constitute a public nuisance and unless the condition is abated within 15 days
from the date of the notice, the conditions constituting a nuisance will be
abated and the cost of abatement, including an administrative fee, if not paid,
shall constitute a lien against the premises.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer is hereby given full power
and authority to enter upon the premises involved for the purpose of abating
the nuisance found to exist as herein set out. If any owner served with notice
shall fail or refuse to correct or eliminate the condition causing the nuisance
within 15 days after such notice has been given, the Code Enforcement
Supervisor or officer may proceed to abate the nuisance by utilization of city
forces or an outside contractor. The Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer may
allow the owner additional time to correct or eliminate the condition causing
the nuisance if he or she determines that the failure to correct or abate the
condition was caused by factors not within the control of the owner.
   (D)   After the abatement of the nuisance, the Code Enforcement Supervisor
or officer shall make a written report of the actual cost incurred by the city
and shall deliver the report to the City Revenue Supervisor. The owner of the
premises shall be liable to the city for the actual cost incurred by the city
in the nuisance abatement including an administrative fee. Such cost, if not
paid, shall be charged against the property owner and shall be collected in the
same manner and at the same time as the ad valorem taxes of the owner are
collected and the costs shall be a lien on the real property subject only to
the lien of the city and county ad valorem taxes thereon.
(Ord. No. 00-20, §§ 1, 2, passed 2-10-2000; Ord. No. 23-083, § 1, passed 12-14-
2023)
SEC. 12-3-23 METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Notices or orders issued by the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer
under this article shall be served upon persons either personally or by
registered or certified mail and, in conjunction therewith, may be served by
regular mail. When the manner or service is by regular mail in conjunction with
registered or certified mail, and the registered or certified mail is unclaimed
or refused, but the regular mail is not returned by the post office within ten
days after mailing, service shall be deemed sufficient. The person mailing the
notice or order by regular mail shall certify that fact and the date thereof,
and the certificate shall be conclusive in the absence of fraud.
   (B)   If the identities of any owner or the whereabouts of persons are
unknown and cannot be ascertained by the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer
in the exercise of reasonable diligence, and the Code Enforcement Supervisor or
officer makes an affidavit to that effect, then the serving of the notice or
order upon the unknown owners or other persons may be made by publication in a
newspaper having general circulation in the city at least once no later than
the time at which personal service would be required under the provisions of
this article. When service is made by publication, a notice of the pending
proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises thereby
affected.
(Ord. No. 00-20, §§ 1, 2, passed 2-10-2000; Ord. No. 23-083, § 1, passed 12-14-
2023)
SEC. 12-3-24 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT TO HEAR APPEALS.
   All appeals which may be taken from decisions or orders of the Code
Enforcement Supervisor or officer pursuant to§
12-3-22 shall be heard and determined by the Board of Adjustment. As the
appeals body, the Board shall have the power to fix the times and places of its
meetings, to adopt necessary rules of procedure and any other rules and
regulations which may be necessary for the proper discharge of its duties.
Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review by proceedings in the
nature of certiorari instituted by a petition to the Superior Court within 30
days to the decision of the Board, but not otherwise.
(Ord. No. 00-20, §§ 1-2, passed 2-10-2000; Ord. No. 06-75, § 3, passed 8-10-
2006; Ord. No. 23-083, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
ARTICLE C. GRAFFITI
SEC. 12-3-31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, regardless of capitalization, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   Abate or abatement; abated. Eliminate or nullify; eliminated or nullified.
   City. The City of Greenville.
   Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer. The person who has been designated,
in writing, by the City Manager to enforce this article.
   Division. The city’s Neighborhood and Business Services Department, Code
Enforcement Division.
   Graffiti. Any covering, writing, scribbling, painting, defacing, coloring,
etching, scratching, engraving, marring, disfiguring, drawing, besmearing,
inscription, word, figure, marking, or design in any manner whatsoever, whether
permanent or temporary, on any portion of real or personal property of any kind
or nature without the express consent of the owner of the property.
   Owner. Any person, group of persons, or any entity owning or lawfully
possessing, keeping, or having care, custody, or control of any property
covered by this article. In the case of real property, the owner includes the
authorized agent or property manager of the owner or any tenant. In the case of
a vehicle, the owner includes the driver or operator of the vehicle.
   Property. Real or personal property of any kind or nature within the
corporate limits of the city or within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the
city, including but not limited to any building, parcel, premises, lot,
grounds, facility, vehicle, apparatus, street, sidewalk, lot, monument,
tombstone, or structure.
   Regular mail. The deposit of a notification, letter, or other paper enclosed
in a post-paid, properly addressed wrapper in a post office or official
depository under the exclusive care and custody of the United States Postal
Service.
   Remediation. To remove, restore, redress, or obscure, cover, or clean
graffiti upon property to such a degree and in such a manner as to effectively
return the property to its former state before the graffiti, or as nearly so as
is practical.
(Ord. No. 23-083, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
SEC. 12-3-32 GRAFFITI AS NUISANCE; PURPOSE OF ARTICLE; AUTHORITY OF DIVISION.
   (A)   Graffiti declared a nuisance. Graffiti is hereby found, deemed, and
declared to be a public nuisance and detrimental to the health, safety, and
welfare of the public as well as the peace and dignity of the city, and is
therefore subject to enforcement, removal, abatement, and penalty as
specifically set forth in this article and by any other operation of law.
   (B)   Purpose and scope of article. The purpose of this article is to
provide for the effective enforcement of this article and the procedure for
abatement, removal, and eradication of graffiti from property located within
the city and within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city so as to
reduce social deterioration within the city and to promote public safety,
health, and welfare.
   (C)   Authority of Division. When any graffiti is found on any property, a
Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer shall have the following authority:
      (1)   To enter upon property;
      (2)   To obtain an administrative search and inspection warrant, if
necessary, as provided in G.S. 15-27.2;
      (3)   To issue a notice of violation and, as may be applicable, impose
civil penalties, administrative fees, and abatement by remediation costs in
accordance with the article and the Manual of Fees;
      (4)   To enter upon or authorize an agent to enter upon and abate by
remediation the property in violation of this article; and
      (5)   To utilize the services of an outside contractor to abate by
remediation the property in violation of this article.
(Ord. No. 07-123, § 1, passed 9-13-2007; Ord. No. 23-083, § 1, passed 12-14-
2023)
SEC. 12-3-33 ENGAGING IN GRAFFITI UNLAWFUL; PENALTIES.
   (A)   Engaging in graffiti unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any person to
engage in graffiti unless the person has the express consent, permission, or
authority of the owner of the property.
   (B)   Penalties. In addition to or in lieu of any remedies available in this
article or by other operation of law, a violation of this section may subject
the offender to any or all of the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than $250 and not more than $500. Any
individual engaging in graffiti shall also be subject to prosecution for such
offenses as found within the statutes of the State of North Carolina, including
but not limited to restitution costs for abatement by remediation of the
nuisance and damage to the property.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
issued a civil citation or citations, as may be required, as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            2.   Second and subsequent violation within 365 days of the first
violation. Any subsequent violation of this section by the violator within 365
days from herein defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil
penalty of $500.
         (b)   Contents and service of civil citation. A civil citation issued
for a violation of any provision of this section shall clearly state when the
civil penalty is due and the manner in which the violation may be appealed.
Civil citations issued under this section shall be served personally or by
regular mail upon the violator by a Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer or
by member of the Greenville Police Department.
         (c)   Appeals; payment of civil penalties. Unless appealed in
accordance with section
1-1-20 of the City Code, all civil penalties assessed for violations of any
provision of this section must be paid to and received by the Revenue Division
of the city’s Financial Services Department within five business days from the
date of issuance.
         (d)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalties. Unless appealed
in accordance with section
1-1-20 of the City Code, if full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not
timely received by the Revenue Division of the city’s Financial Services
Department, the city may recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the
following methods:
            1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
            2.   The use of a collections agency.
            3.   The use of the provisions of G.S. Chapter 105A (The Setoff
Debt Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
            4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
            5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect,
satisfy, or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (3)   Continuing violations. Each day’s continuing violation of this
section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 23-083, § 1, passed 12-14-2023
SEC. 12-3-34 GRAFFITI ABATEMENT PROCEDURES; PENALTIES.
   (A)   Notice of violation. Upon determination that graffiti is present upon
property, the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer shall serve in accordance
with this section a notice of violation to the owner of the property upon which
the graffiti is located. The notice of violation shall include all of the
following:
      (1)   The street address or description of the property sufficient for
proper identification of such property.
      (2)   A description and general location of the graffiti.
      (3)   A statement that the graffiti is a public nuisance with reference
to the provisions of this article.
      (4)   An order that the graffiti must be abated by remediation within ten
calendar days of receipt and that, if the nuisance is not so abated by
remediation within such time, the city will:
         (a)   Issue a civil penalty to the owner.
         (b)   Abate by remediation the public nuisance.
         (c)   Charge the owner an administrative fee in accordance with the
Manual of Fees and the cost of the abatement by remediation.
      (5)   Information concerning procedures for appeal of the notice of
violation.
      (6)   A certificate of service showing the method of service as defined
in this section.
   (B)   Method of service. The notice of violation issued in accordance with
this section by the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer shall be served on
the owner of the identified property by either of the following methods:
      (1)   Hand delivery.
      (2)   Certified mail and regular mail addressed to the owner of the
property as stated in the most current records of the Pitt County Tax Assessor.
When the manner of service is by certified mail and regular mail and the
certified mail is unclaimed or refused but the regular mail is not returned by
the post office within ten days of mailing, service is deemed sufficient. The
person mailing the notice of violation by regular mail shall certify that fact
and the date of the mailing, and that certification shall be conclusive
evidence of service in the absence of fraud.
   (C)   Appeal of notice of violation. The owner shall have five business days
from receipt of a notice of violation to file an appeal. The appeal must be
made in writing to the Board of Adjustment and the appeal fee paid in
accordance with the Manual of Fees. Appeals of decision by the Board of
Adjustment shall be as provided by state law.
   (D)   Failure of owner to abate by remediation. It shall be unlawful for the
owner of any property to fail to abate by remediation graffiti upon such
property within ten calendar days after receipt of written notice to do so by
the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer in accordance with this section.
   (E)   Abatement by remediation by the city. If the city has served a notice
of violation to the owner in accordance with this section and that person fails
or refuses to abate by remediation the nuisance as directed by the notice of
violation, in addition to any other penalties herein authorized, the Code
Enforcement Supervisor or officer is authorized to issue a civil penalty to the
owner, abate by remediation the graffiti, and charge the owner an
administrative fee in accordance with the Manual of Fees and the cost of the
abatement by remediation.
   (F)   The Code Enforcement Supervisor may authorize the allowance of
additional time for the owner to abate by remediation the graffiti if such
failure to do so was caused by weather conditions or other factors as
determined by the Code Enforcement Supervisor not to have been within the
control of the owner.
   (G)   Immediate abatement by remediation; no prior notice required. Where
any public nuisance graffiti as set forth in this article requires immediate
abatement to avoid and prevent an immediate and dangerous threat to the health,
safety, and welfare of the inhabitants of the city and would degrade adjoining
properties as determined by the Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer, the
nuisance may be summarily abated by remediation by the city without prior
notice to the property owner, but the owner shall be responsible for all
abatement by remediation costs, administrative fees, and civil penalties.
   (H)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   An owner that violates subsection (D) of this section may be issued
a civil citation or citations, as may be required, as follows:
         (a)   First violation. A violation of any of the provisions of this
Code of Ordinances shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $100.
         (b)   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation by the violator within 365 days from herein defined first
violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
         (c)   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations by the violator
within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject the violator
to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
      (2)   Contents and service of civil citation. A civil citation issued for
a violation of subsection (D) of this section shall clearly state when the
civil penalty is due and the manner in which the violation may be appealed.
Civil citations issued under this section shall be served personally or by
regular mail upon the violator by a Code Enforcement Supervisor or officer.
      (3)   Appeals; payment of civil penalty. Unless appealed in accordance
with section 1-1-20 of the City Code, a civil penalty assessed for violations
of any provision of this section must be paid to and received by the city’s
Financial Services Department within five business days from the date of
issuance.
      (4)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with the appeal provisions in accordance with section 1-1-20 of the
City Code, if full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received
by the city’s Financial Services Department, the city may recover the unpaid
civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
         (a)   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
         (b)   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
         (c)   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
         (d)   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
         (e)   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect, satisfy,
or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
      (5)   Continuing violations. Each day’s continuing violation of
subsection (D) of this section shall be a separate and distinct offense.
      (6)   In addition to any of the recovery methods stated in this section
if the owner fails or refuses to abate the nuisance by remediation, the Code
Enforcement Supervisor or officer is authorized to forward to the Finance
Department for collection a report and invoice for the costs of the abatement
by remediation of the nuisance, administrative fees in accordance with the
Manual of Fees, and a copy of any unpaid civil citation issued pursuant to
subsection (D) of this section. Such charges and costs shall be assessed
against the property owner and shall become a lien upon the property, subject
only to the city and county advalorem taxes thereon. Such charges and costs
shall be collected and enforced in the same manner as unpaid taxes.
      (7)   In addition to any of the recovery methods stated in this section,
if the owner fails or refuses to abate the nuisance by remediation and fails to
pay the civil penalty plus any administrative fees and abatement costs within
30 days after being notified of the amount due, the city may recover the
penalties together with all costs by filing a civil action in the general court
of justice in the nature of a suit to collect a debt in addition to any other
remedy available under this section.
(Ord. No. 23-083, § 1, passed 12-14-2023)
CHAPTER 4: ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
12-4-1   Definitions
   
12-4-2   Administration
   
12-4-3   Abandonment prohibited; removal authorized
   
12-4-4   Nuisance vehicles prohibited; removal authorized
   
12-4-5   Junked vehicles prohibited; removal authorized
   
12-4-6   Removal of abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles; pretowing
notice requirements
   
12-4-7   Exceptions to prior notice requirement
   
12-4-8   Removal of vehicles; post-towing notice requirements
   
12-4-9   Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle
   
12-4-10   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
12-4-11   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicles
   
12-4-12   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
12-4-13   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
12-4-14   Exceptions
   
12-4-15   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
Cross-reference:
   Traffic regulations, see §§
10-2-1 et seq.
Editor’s note:
   Section 1 of Ord. No. 2198, adopted June 14, 1990, deleted former Ch. 4, §§
12-4-1—12-4-8, in its entirety and enacted a new Ch. 4 in lieu thereof. The
deleted provisions pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Code
1971, §§ 31-112—31-119; Ord. No. 765, § 1, adopted April 13, 1978; and Ord. No.
1335, §§ 1, 3, 4, adopted Nov. 10, 1983.
Statutory reference:
   Removal and disposal of junked and abandoned motor vehicles, see G.S. 160A-
303
SEC. 12-4-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Abandoned motor vehicle. A motor vehicle shall be deemed to be “abandoned” for
the purpose of this chapter if:
      (1)   It has been left upon a street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   It is left on property owned or operated by the city for longer
than 24 hours;
      (3)   It is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof for longer than two hours; or
      (4)   It is left on any public street or highway in the city for longer
than seven days.
Authorizing official. The supervisory employee of the Police Department or the
member of the Code Enforcement Division designated to authorize the removal of
vehicles under the provisions of this chapter.
Junked motor vehicle. A motor vehicle shall be deemed to be a junked motor
vehicle if it does not display a current license plate and also:
      (1)   It is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   It cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it was
originally intended to move; or
      (3)   It is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than
$500.
Motor vehicle or vehicle. All machines designed or intended to travel over land
by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle.
Nuisance vehicle. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance and unlawful,
including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste or any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; or
      (9)   Any vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard and a
public nuisance by the Code Enforcement Division.
(Ord. No. 2198, § 1, passed 6-14-1990; Ord. No. 97-89, §§ 1, 2, passed 8-14-
1997; Ord. No. 04-100, § 1, passed 8-12-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose $500 minimum value requirement for junked motor vehicles
despite the provisions of G.S. 160A-303, Related Local Laws Section
10-8 of this Code of Ordinances
SEC. 12-4-2 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Police Department and the Code Enforcement Division of the city
shall be responsible for the administration and enforcement of this chapter.
The Police Department shall be responsible for administering the removal and
disposition of vehicles determined to be “abandoned” on the public streets and
highways within the city limits, and on property owned by the city.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Division of the city shall be responsible for
administering the removal and disposition of “abandoned,” “nuisance” or “junked
motor vehicles” located on private property. The city may contract with private
tow truck operators or towing businesses to remove, store and dispose of
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles in compliance with this chapter
and applicable state laws.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the legal
authority or powers of officers of the Police Department and the Fire
Department in enforcing other laws or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
(Ord. No. 2198, § 1, passed 6-14-1990; Ord. No. 97-89, §§ 1, 3, 4, passed 8-14-
1997)
SEC. 12-4-3 ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow the vehicle to be abandoned as the
term is defined in this chapter.
   (B)   Upon investigation authorizing officials of the city may determine
that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. No. 2198, § 1, passed 6-14-1990)
SEC. 12-4-4 NUISANCE VEHICLES PROHIBITED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located to leave or allow the vehicle to
remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Code Enforcement Coordinator or officer may
determine and declare that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a
nuisance vehicle as defined above, and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. No. 2198, § 1, passed 6-14-1990; Ord. No. 97-89, § 1, passed 8-14-1997)
SEC. 12-4-5 JUNKED VEHICLES PROHIBITED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of
the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to have more than one junked motor vehicle, as
defined herein, on the premises of public or private property. A single,
permitted junked motor vehicle must strictly comply with the location and
concealment requirements of this section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, person entitled to the possession
of a junked motor vehicles, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to fail to comply with
the locational requirements or the concealment requirements of this section.
   (D)   Subject to the provisions of subsection (E) below, upon investigation,
the Code Enforcement Coordinator or officer may order the removal of a junked
motor vehicle as defined in this chapter after finding in writing that the
aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on the
private property owner. Such findings shall be based on a balancing of the
monetary loss of the apparent owner against the corresponding gain to the
public by promoting or enhancing community, neighborhood or area appearance.
The following, among other relevant factors, may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of area
residents.
   (E)   Permitted concealment or enclosure of junked motor vehicle:
      (1)   One junked motor vehicle in its entirety can be located in the rear
yard as defined by the Zoning Ordinance if the junked motor vehicle is entirely
concealed from public view from a public street and from abutting premises by
an acceptable covering.
      (2)   The Code Enforcement Coordinator or officer has authority to
determine whether any junked motor vehicle is adequately concealed as required
by this provision. The covering must remain in good repair and must not be
allowed to deteriorate. The covering or enclosure must be compatible with the
objectives sought to be obtained in this chapter.
      (3)   For more than one junked motor vehicle, any other junked vehicle(s)
must be kept in a garage or building structure that provides a complete
enclosure so that the junked motor vehicle(s) cannot be seen from a public
street or abutting property. A garage or building structure means either a
lawful, nonconforming use or a garage or building structure erected pursuant to
the lawful issuance of a building permit and which has been constructed in
accordance with all zoning and Building Code regulations.
   (F)   A vehicle that is used on a regular basis for business or personal use
shall not be ordered to be removed or disposed of pursuant to the provisions of
this section.
(Ord. No. 2198, § 1, passed 6-14-1990; Ord. No. 97-89, § 1, passed 8-14-1997;
Ord. No. 04-100, § 2, passed 8-12-2004)
SEC. 12-4-6 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, NUISANCE OR JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES; PRETOWING
NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as set forth in section
12-4-7 below, an abandoned, nuisance or junked vehicle which is to be removed
shall be towed only after notice to the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of the vehicle. In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a junked motor
vehicle, if the names and mailing addresses of the registered owner or person
entitled to the possession of the vehicle, or the owner, lessee or occupant of
the real property upon which the vehicle is located can be ascertained in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given first by certified
mail. The person who mails the notice(s) shall retain a written record to show
the name(s) and address(es) to which mailed, and date mailed. If the names and
addresses cannot be ascertained or the vehicle to be removed is an abandoned
motor vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing on the windshield or some
other conspicuous place on the vehicle a notice indicating that the vehicle
will be removed by the city on a specified date (no sooner than seven days
after the notice is affixed). The notice shall state that the vehicle will be
removed by the city on a specified date, no sooner than seven days after the
notice is affixed or mailed unless the vehicle is moved by the owner or legal
possessor prior to that time.
   (B)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked motor vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if
the registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the
vehicle but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned,
a nuisance vehicle or, in the case of a junked motor vehicle, that the
aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, such appeal
shall be made to the Code Enforcement Coordinator or officer in writing, and
further proceedings to remove the vehicle shall be stayed until the appeal is
heard and decided.
(Ord. No. 2198, § 1, passed 6-14-1990; Ord. No. 97-89, § 1, passed 8-14-1997)
SEC. 12-4-7 EXCEPTIONS TO PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The requirement that notice be given to the removal of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the authorizing
official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a special need for
prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to otherwise maintain and
protect the public health, safety and welfare. Such findings shall, in all
cases, be entered by the authorizing official in the appropriate daily records.
   (B)   Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicles without prior notice
include:
      (1)   Vehicles abandoned on streets. For vehicles left on public streets
and highways, the Police Department may determine that immediate removal of
such vehicles may be warranted when they are:
         (a)   Obstructing traffic;
         (b)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
         (c)   Parked in a no-stopping or standing zone;
         (d)   Parked in loading zones;
         (e)   Parked in bus zones; or
         (f)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions imposed
under Code sections.
      (2)   Other abandoned, nuisance or junked vehicles. With respect to
abandoned, nuisance or junked vehicles left on city-owned property other than
streets and highways, and on private property, the vehicles may be removed
without giving prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorizing
official finds a special need for prompt action to protect and maintain the
public health, safety and welfare. By way of illustration and not of
limitation, such circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress
or egress to businesses and residences, vehicles parked in such a location or
manner as to pose a traffic hazard, and vehicles causing damage to public or
private property. Additionally, abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles on
private property may be removed without giving prior notice to the owner of the
motor vehicle whenever the authorizing official determines that the owner of
the motor vehicle cannot reasonably be ascertained due to the condition or
location of the vehicle; provided that prior notice to the owner, lessee or
occupant of the real property upon which the vehicle is located, indicating
that the vehicle will be removed by the city on a specified date, is given
either personally or by certified mail at least seven days prior to removal.
(Ord. No. 98-129, § 1, passed 10-8-1998)
SEC. 12-4-8 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which has been ordered
removed may, as directed by the city, be removed to a storage garage or area by
a tow truck operator or towing business contracted to perform such services for
the city. Whenever such a vehicle is removed, the authorizing city official
shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the vehicle, such
notice to include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (B)   The city shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice including the information set forth in subsections (A)(1) through (5)
above shall also be mailed to the registered owner’s last known address, unless
this notice is waived in writing by the vehicle owner or his or her agent.
   (C)   If the vehicle is registered in this state, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and the vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the
authorizing city official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify him or her of the information set forth in
subsections (A)(1) through (5) above.
(Ord. No. 2198, § 1, passed 6-14-1990)
SEC. 12-4-9 RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR FINAL DISPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   After removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle or junked motor
vehicle, the owner or any other person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle. A request for the hearing must be filed in writing with the Code
Enforcement Coordinator or officer for the city.
(Ord. No. 2198, § 1, passed 6-14-1990; Ord. No. 97-89, § 1, passed 8-14-1997)
SEC. 12-4-10 REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges that may have been incurred. Upon
regaining possession of a vehicle, the owner or person entitled to the
possession of the vehicle shall not allow or engage in further violations of
this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2198, § 1, passed 6-14-1990)
SEC. 12-4-11 SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES.
   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the tow
truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition of
such a vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with the city and in
accordance with G.S. Chapter 44A, Article 1.
(Ord. No. 2198, § 1, passed 6-14-1990)
SEC. 12-4-12 CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   As a general policy, the city will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant or lessee of the property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures. In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the city from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in those cases where a vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or a junked motor vehicle which has been ordered removed by
the Code Enforcement Coordinator or officer. The city may require any person
requesting the removal of abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles from
private property to indemnify the city against any loss, expense or liability
incurred because of the removal, storage or sale thereof.
(Ord. No. 2198, § l, passed 6-14-1990; Ord. No. 97-89, § 1, passed 8-14-1997)
SEC. 12-4-13 PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle, for disposing of the vehicle as provided in
this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2198, § 1, passed 6-14-1990)
SEC. 12-4-14 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle which is:
   (A)   Located in a bona fide automobile graveyard or junkyard, as defined in
G.S. 136-143, in accordance with the Junkyard Control Act, G.S. 136-141 et
seq.;
   (B)   In an enclosed building;
   (C)   On the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a lawful
place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise; or
   (D)   In an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful
place and manner by the city.
(Ord. No. 2198, § 1, passed 6-14-1990)
SEC. 12-4-15 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the city any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of the chapter unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due have been paid.
(Ord. No. 2198, § 1, passed 6-14-1990; Ord. No. 06-75, § 3, passed 8-10-2006)
CHAPTER 5: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
12-5-1   Purpose
   
12-5-2   Definitions
   
12-5-3   Standards
   
12-5-4   Maximum permitted sound levels by use occupancy
   
12-5-5   Nuisance noise
   
12-5-6   Exceptions
   
12-5-7   Determinations
   
12-5-8   Permits
   
12-5-9   Motor vehicle noise
   
12-5-10   Mufflers
   
12-5-11   Off-road vehicles
   
12-5-12   Owner responsibility for noise violations
   
12-5-13   Enforcement; oral notice allowed but not required
   
12-5-14   Penalties and enforcement
SEC. 12-5-1 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is recognized that excessive and unnecessary noise endangers the
physical and emotional health and welfare of the people, interferes with
legitimate business and recreational activity, depresses property values,
offends the senses, creates public nuisances, and in other respects reduces the
quality of life.
   (B)   It is further recognized that a substantial body of science and
technology exists by which excessive sound may be measured and substantially
abated. Because excessive and unnecessary noise may jeopardize human health or
welfare or substantially degrade the quality of life, it is the purpose of this
chapter to prevent, prohibit and provide for the regulation and abatement of
excessive and unnecessary noise which may injure the physical and emotional
health or welfare of its citizens or degrade the quality of life.
(Ord. No. 05-108, passed 9-8-2005)
SEC. 12-5-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
A-weighted sound level. The sound pressure level in decibels as measured on a
sound level meter using the A-weighting network. The level so read is
designated dB(A).
Classification of use occupancies.  
      (1)   Use occupancies shall be as follows:
         Agricultural. All premises which are bona fide farms or which are
characterized by farming activities as the primary use of the premises.
         Commercial or business.  All premises where sales, professional or
other commercial activities are legally permitted, except that residences with
lawful home occupations are considered residential.
         Manufacturing or industrial. All premises where goods or wares are
made, warehoused or stored or where manufacturing is legally permitted.
         Public space. Any area owned, utilized or occupied by a municipal,
county, state or federal agency, including but not limited to park or
recreation areas, streets and sidewalks, and the campus of East Carolina
University.
         Residential use. All premises containing habitually occupied sleeping
quarters. However, premises containing transient commercial sleeping quarters
are considered commercial uses. Hospitals, nursing homes, schools, libraries,
fraternity and sorority houses, and churches are considered “residential uses.”
      (2)   In classifying uses under this section, the zoning classification
of an area may be considered; however, the actual use of premises shall control
when the use and the zoning classification conflict. Any area not otherwise
classified under this section shall be considered commercial.
      (3)   In case of multiple use the more restrictive use category shall
prevail.
Decibel (DB). A unit for describing the amplitude of sound, equal to 20 times
the logarithm to the base 10 of the ratio of the pressure of the sound measured
to the reference pressure, which is 20 micronewtons per square meter.
Emergency work. Any work performed for the purpose of preventing or alleviating
physical trauma or property damage threatened or caused by an existing or
imminent peril.
Fraternity house/sorority house. A building occupied by and maintained
exclusively for college or university students who are affiliated with a
social, honorary or professional organization which is chartered by a national
fraternity or sorority order and which is recognized by the administration of
East Carolina University or by any other institution of higher education
located in Pitt County.
Holiday. For the purposes of this chapter, the following days will be
recognized as “holidays” for the purpose of granting permits to exceed maximum
sound level: St. Patrick’s Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day,
Halloween and December 31.
Muffler.  An apparatus consisting of a series of chambers or baffle plates
designed for the purpose of transmitting gases while reducing sound emanating
from such apparatus.
Night-time. That time commencing at 11:00 p.m. on one day and ending at 7:00
a.m. the next day or, if using the 24-hour clock, from 2300 - 0700.
Noise.  Any sound which annoys or disturbs humans or which causes or tends to
cause an adverse psychological or physiological effect on humans.
Outdoor amplified sound. Any sound using amplifying equipment, whose source is
outside or whose source is inside and the sound propagates to the outside
through open doors or windows or other openings in the building.
Owner of real property. The owner or listing owner of real property as defined
in G.S. 105-302.
Person.  Any individual, association, partnership or corporation and includes
any officer, employee, department, agency or instrumentality of the United
States, the state or any political subdivision thereof.
Plainly audible. Any sound that can be clearly heard at a distance of 75 feet
or more. Measurement standards shall be the auditory senses, based upon the
direct line of sight. Words or phrases need not be discernible and bass
reverberations are included.
Slow response.  A measuring technique to obtain an average value when measuring
a noise level that fluctuates over a range of four dB or more. By way of
illustration only, a sound level meter set on “slow response” would record a
sound level between two and six decibels less than the reading for a steady
signal of the same frequency and amplitude when a tone of 1,000 Hz and for a
duration of 0.5 second is applied.
Sound. An oscillation in pressure, particle displacement, particle velocity or
other physical parameter, in a medium with internal forces that causes
compression, and rarefaction of that medium. The description of “sound” may
include any characteristic of such “sound,” including duration, intensity and
frequency.
Sound amplification system. Any radio, tape player, compact disc player, loud
speaker or other electronic device used for the amplification of sound.
Sound level. The weighted sound pressure level obtained by the use of a sound
level meter and frequency weighting network, such as A, B or C as specified in
American National Standards Institute specifications for sound level meters
(ANSI S1.4-1971 or the latest approved version thereof). If the frequency
weighting employed is not indicated, the A-weighting shall also apply.
Sound level meter. An instrument which includes a microphone, amplifier, RSM
detector, integrator or time averager, output meter and weighting network used
to measure sound pressure levels.
Sound pressure level. Twenty times the logarithms to the base 10 of the ratio
of the root mean squared (RMS) sound pressure to the reference pressure of 20
micronewtons per square meter.
Sound source.  Any person, animal, device, operation, process, activity or
phenomenon, which emits or causes sound.
Tenant. One who resides on or has the temporary use or occupation of real
property owned by another person. In the case of residential property, “tenant”
shall be construed to mean any individual actually residing at the residential
location, whether the person is listed on a lease or not.
Unnecessary noise. Any excessive or unusually loud sound or any sound which
disturbs the peace and quiet of any neighborhood or which does annoy, disturb,
injure or endanger the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of any
reasonable person of ordinary sensibilities or causes damage to property.
(Ord. No. 05-108, passed 9-8-2005)
SEC. 12-5-3 STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards, instrumentation, personnel, measurement procedures and
reporting procedures to be used in the measurement of sound shall be as
specified in this section, and in administrative directives issued by the City
Manager.
   (B)   Sound level measurement shall be made with a sound level meter using
the A-weighting scale, set on “slow” response.
   (C)   Sound level meters shall be at least Type II meeting American National
Standard Institute (ANSI) S1.4-1971 requirements. Persons using the sound level
meters shall be trained in sound level measurement and the operation of sound
level measurement equipment.
   (D)   The City Manager shall issue an administrative directive adopting
standards and procedures for sound level measurement and enforcement consistent
with this chapter.
(Ord. No. 05-108, passed 9-8-2005)
SEC. 12-5-4 MAXIMUM PERMITTED SOUND LEVELS BY USE OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   The use of sound amplifying equipment is limited to the conditions
specified in this section.
   (B)   Outdoor amplified sound, including a live musical group or individual
using sound amplifying equipment, may be produced only if an authorized agent
of the sponsoring business, organization or group has been granted an outdoor
amplified sound permit. This permit must be signed by a representative of the
business, organization or group holding or sponsoring the event at which the
outdoor amplified sound will be produced, as well as the applicant if different
from the business, organization or group holding or sponsoring the event. Such
person, group, organization or business shall be responsible for costs
associated with providing security and cleanup costs as identified on the
permit application.
   (C)   Except as allowed in subsection (D) below, no person shall operate or
cause to be operated any source of sound in such a manner as to create a sound
level which at its peak exceeds the limits set forth for the use occupancy
categories in Table 1 when measured at or beyond the property line of the
property from which the sound originates. For purposes of measurement, the back
of the curb, the outside edges of driveways, fences, hedges or other physical
features commonly associated with property boundaries are presumed to be at a
point which is at or beyond the property line. In all cases the maximum sound
level permitted by use occupancy shall be determined on the basis of the use
occupancy of the property from which the sound originates and not by the use
occupancy of any surrounding property. Sound which originates from a dwelling
unit in a duplex or other multi-family housing unit shall be measured from any
point which is at least 25 lineal feet, whether inside or outside a building,
from the nearest point of the enclosed or habitable space of the dwelling unit
from which the sound originates.
TABLE 1: SOUND LEVELS BY USE OCCUPANCY
 
Use Occupancy Category       Time                   Sound Level Limit (dB(A))
Residential                  7:00 a.m. – 11:00 p.m60
                             11:00 p.m. – 7:00 a.m55
Public space, commercial or  7:00 a.m. – 11:00 p.m65
business                     11:00 p.m. – 7:00 a.m60
Manufacturing, industrial or At all times           75
agricultural
 
   (D)   Sound levels in excess of the limits established in Table 1 will be
permitted in public space, commercial or business space, manufacturing,
industrial or agricultural space, but not on residential space, as follows:
TABLE 2: GREATER SOUND LEVELS, NONRESIDENTIAL
 
                                         Without Permit (dB With Permit to
                                          (A))               Exceed (dB(A))
Weekends (Friday 5:00 p.m. – 11:00 p.m. 70                 80
Sunday)
Holidays (as defined in section 12-5-2)   70                 80
(12:00 p.m. noon-11:00 p.m.)
 
   (E)   Fraternity houses and sorority houses shall be classified as
residential use and shall conform to the regulations in Table 1 of subsection
(C) above except as provided in this subsection. Each fraternity and each
sorority at East Carolina University and Pitt Community College may be granted
one “permit to exceed” during the fall and spring academic semesters as defined
by the respective catalogs for East Carolina University and Pitt Community
College. For the purposes of this subsection, the fall academic semester shall
be deemed to begin seven days before the first day of scheduled classes, and
shall end seven days after the last scheduled day of exams, and the spring
academic semester shall be deemed to begin seven days before the first day of
scheduled class and end one day after the scheduled day of commencement as
identified in the respective academic calendars or catalog of East Carolina
University or Pitt Community College. Permits to exceed allowed under this
subsection shall not be transferable from one organization to another, or from
one location to another. Applications for permits under this subsection shall
be considered under the same criteria as any other application, except that no
permit may be issued under this subsection to any fraternity or sorority which
had a permit revoked during the immediately preceding semester.
   (F)   Penalties. Unless exempt pursuant to City Code section
12-5-6, a violation of this section may subject the violator to any or all of
the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than $100 and not more than $500.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   A violation of any of the provisions of this section shall
subject the violator to a civil penalty by way of a civil ticket in an amount
as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
            2.   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            3.   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
         (b)   Appeals; payment of civil penalty; delinquency charge. Unless
appealed in accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City
Code, a civil penalty assessed for a violation of any provision of this section
must be paid to and received by the revenue division of the city's Financial
Services Department within five business days from the date of issuance. If the
civil penalty is not timely paid to and received by the revenue division of the
city's Financial Services Department within five business days from the date of
issuance, the violator will be assessed a delinquency charge of an additional
$50 for each 72-hour period thereafter upon nonpayment until paid in full.
         (c)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city's Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
            1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
            2.   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
            3.   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
            4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction, including but not limited to nuisance abatement procedures.
            5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect,
satisfy, or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
            6.   The City Attorney, or his or her designee, is authorized to
file suit on behalf of the city to collect any unpaid civil penalties and any
delinquency charges, and the Police Chief, or his or her designee, is
authorized to verify and sign complaints on behalf of the city in such suits.
If litigation is required to recover the civil penalties and delinquency
charges, the City Attorney or his or her designee in addition to the civil
penalties and delinquency charges may recover reasonable attorneys' fees and
other costs incurred in bringing the action and collecting the judgment.
      (3)   Separate offenses. Each violation of this section and each day that
a violation continues is considered a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 05-108, passed 9-8-2005; Ord. No. 23-049, § 16, passed 6-8-2023)
 SEC. 12-5-5 NUISANCE NOISE.
   (A)   In addition to any other violation of this chapter, it shall be
unlawful to emit any unreasonably loud, annoying, frightening, loud and
disturbing or unnecessary noise. Specifically, it shall be unlawful to emit
noise of such character, intensity or duration as to be detrimental to the life
or health of any reasonable person of ordinary sensibilities.
   (B)   In addition to any other violation of this chapter, the following acts
are specifically declared to be unreasonably loud, annoying, frightening, loud
and disturbing or unnecessary noise, the emission of which shall be unlawful.
The following enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile,
motorcycle, bus or other vehicle while not in motion, except as a danger
signal, or if in motion, only as a danger signal after or as brakes are being
applied and deceleration of the vehicle is intended; the creation by means of
any such signal device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the
sounding of such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
      (2)   The use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle other than police,
fire, ambulance or other emergency vehicles;
      (3)   The playing of any radio, phonograph, CD player, computer generated
and/or amplified sound, amplifier, television, tape deck, tape recorder,
musical instrument or any other electronically created or amplified sound
equipment in such a manner or with such volume during the night-time hours as
to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any person or persons in
any dwelling, hotel, motel or other type of residence;
      (4)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle so out of
repair, so loaded or in such manner as to create loud or unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling or other noise;
      (5)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler;
      (6)    The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any stationary
internal combustion engine or motor vehicle, except through a muffler or other
device, which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom;
      (7)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning or court, while the same are in session, or
within 150 feet of any hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the work of
such institution or which disturbs or unduly annoys patients in the hospital;
      (8)   The creation of loud and excessive noise in connection with loading
or unloading any vehicles or the opening and destruction of bales, boxes,
crates and containers;
      (9)   The shouting and crying of peddlers, barkers, hawkers or vendors,
which disturbs the quiet and peace of the neighborhood;
      (10)   The use of any drum, loudspeaker or other instrument or device for
the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any performance,
show or sale or display of merchandise;
      (11)   The repair, rebuilding or testing of any motor vehicle in any
residential district, so as to cause loud or offensive noises to be emitted
therefrom during the night-time hours;
      (12)   The creation of excessive noise by the operation of an airplane
over the city by stunting, diving or otherwise operating an airplane for the
purpose of advertising or otherwise;
      (13)   The keeping or maintaining or permitting the keeping of, on any
premises owned, leased, occupied or controlled by such person, any animal or
fowl otherwise permitted to be kept which, by habitual or frequent sound, cry,
howling, barking, squawking, meowing or other noise, that disturbs the quiet,
comfort or repose of any person;
      (14)   The operation on public property or on public vehicular areas of
any sound amplifier which is part of or connected to any radio, stereo
receiver, compact disc player, cassette tape player or other similar device
when operated in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 30
feet from the building, structure or vehicle in which it is located or operated
and which because of its volume, level, duration and character annoys,
disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, health, peace or safety of
reasonable persons of ordinary sensibilities; and
      (15)   Yelling or shouting in residential areas during the night-time
hours where the yelling or shouting is of a volume, level and duration as to
interfere with the quiet enjoyment of reasonable persons of ordinary
sensibilities or annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, health,
peace or safety of reasonable persons of ordinary sensibilities.
   (C)   Penalties. Unless exempt pursuant to City Code section
12-5-6, a violation of this section may subject the violator to any or all of
the following penalties:
       (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than $100 and not more than $500.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   A violation of any of the provisions of this section shall
subject the violator to a civil penalty by way of a civil ticket in an amount
as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
            2.   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            3.   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
         (b)   Appeals; payment of civil penalty; delinquency charge. Unless
appealed in accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City
Code, a civil penalty assessed for a violation of any provision of this section
must be paid to and received by the revenue division of the city's Financial
Services Department within five business days from the date of issuance. If the
civil penalty is not timely paid to and received by the revenue division of the
city's Financial Services Department within five business days from the date of
issuance, the violator will be assessed an delinquency charge of an additional
$50 for each 72-hour period thereafter upon nonpayment until paid in full.
         (c)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city's Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
            1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
            2.   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
            3.   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
            4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction, including but not limited to nuisance abatement procedures.
            5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect,
satisfy, or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
            6.   The City Attorney, or his or her designee, is authorized to
file suit on behalf of the city to collect any unpaid civil penalties and any
delinquency charges, and the Police Chief, or his or her designee, is
authorized to verify and sign complaints on behalf of the city in such suits.
If litigation is required to recover the civil penalties and delinquency
charges, the City Attorney or his or her designee in addition to the civil
penalties and delinquency charges may recover reasonable attorneys' fees and
other costs incurred in bringing the action and collecting the judgment.
      (3)   Separate offenses. Each violation of this section and each day that
a violation continues is considered a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 05-108, passed 9-8-2005; Ord. No. 23-049, § 17, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 12-5-6 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following are exempt from the provisions of Table 1 and Table 2 of
section
12-5-4 and section
12-5-5:
   (A)   Sound emanating from scheduled outdoor athletic events;
   (B)   Construction operations from 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. on weekdays and 8:
00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. on weekends for which building permits have been issued or
construction operations not requiring permits; providing all equipment is
operated in accord with the manufacturer’s specifications and with all standard
equipment manufacturer’s mufflers and noise-reducing equipment in use and in
proper operating condition;
   (C)   Noise of safety signals, warning devices, emergency pressure relief
valves and all church bells;
   (D)   Noise resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle;
   (E)   Noise resulting from parades, lawful picketing or other public
demonstrations protected by the U.S. Constitution or federal law, or for which
a local permit has been granted by the city, provided the activity is of a
temporary duration lasting no longer than two hours during any 24-hour period.
Regulation of noise emanating from activities under permit shall be according
to the conditions and limits stated in this chapter and according to any
additional conditions stated on the permit;
   (F)   Unamplified and amplified sound at street fairs conducted, sponsored
or sanctioned by the city;
   (G)   All noises coming from the normal operations of properly equipped
aircraft (not including scale model aircraft);
   (H)   Noise from noisemakers on holidays and fireworks on holidays or at
times allowed under a pyrotechnics permit issued pursuant to G.S. Chapter 14,
Article 54;
   (I)   Lawn mowers and agricultural equipment used between 7:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m. when operated with all of the manufacturer’s standard mufflers and noise-
reducing equipment in use and in proper operating condition;
   (J)   Unamplified and amplified sound at community concerts conducted,
sponsored or sanctioned by the city;
   (K)   Practice sessions or performances by marching bands;
   (L)   Noise from trains and associated railroad rolling stock when operated
in proper repair and manner;
   (M)   Emergency work, as defined in section
12-5-2;
   (N)   Live performances by solo musicians, or solo musicians and one
vocalist, with or without amplified sound, in commercial or business uses in
the area from Reade Street west to Washington Street and Reade Circle north to
Second Street, provided that no noise measurement taken at the property line
shall exceed 90 dB(A);
   (O)   Athletic or concert events sponsored by East Carolina University, City
of Greenville or Pitt County schools; and
   (P)   Unamplified and amplified sound at events at the Town Common
conducted, sponsored, or sanctioned by the city.
(Ord. No. 05-108, passed 9-8-2005; Ord. No. 18-014, § 1, passed 3-8-2018)
SEC. 12-5-7 DETERMINATIONS.
   In determining whether a noise is unreasonably loud, disturbing and
unnecessary, the following factors incident to such noise are to be considered:
   (A)    The time of day;
   (B)    The proximity to residential structures, whether the noise is
recurrent, intermittent or constant;
   (C)    The volume and intensity;
   (D)    Whether the noise has been enhanced in volume or range by any type of
electronic or mechanical means;
   (E)    The character and zoning of the area;
   (F)    Whether the noise is related to the normal operation of a business or
other labor activity; and
   (G)    Whether the noise is subject to being controlled without unreasonable
effort or expense to the creator thereof.
(Ord. No. 05-108, passed 9-8-2005)
SEC. 12-5-8 PERMITS.
   (A)   Who may apply. A person or group of persons may produce or cause to be
produced sound in excess of the limits set in section
12-5-4, Table 1 only if a “permit to exceed” has been obtained. With a permit
granted pursuant to this section, maximum sound levels shall be as set out in
section
12-5-4, Table 2.
   (B)   Application for permit. Any person or group of persons desiring an
“outdoor amplified sound permit” or a “permit to exceed” shall apply as
provided in this section, and shall provide all information required. All
applications for a “permit to exceed” shall be submitted to the Chief of Police
or his or her designee at least 72 hours prior to the scheduled event; failure
to comply with this requirement shall be grounds for denying the permit.
   (C)   Action by Chief of Police. The Chief of Police or designee shall act
upon all requests for permits.
      (1)   In considering and acting on all requests for permits pursuant to
this chapter, the Chief of Police or designee shall consider but shall not be
limited to the following in issuing or denying the permit: the timeliness of
the application; the nature of the requested activity; previous experience with
the applicant; the time of the event; other activities in the vicinity of the
location proposed; the frequency of the application; the cultural or social
benefits of the proposed activity; the effect of the activity on any
residential area of the city, and previous violations, if any, of the
applicant.
      (2)   In assessing "other activities in the vicinity" and the frequency
of applications in the vicinity, the Chief of Police or designee shall not
issue more than two permits per month within a 1,000-foot radius of each other,
or issue permits for events on consecutive weekends (Friday and Saturday)
within a 1,000-foot radius of each other. However, the limitation on the
issuance of permits in this subsection (2) shall not apply to events at the
Town Common conducted, sponsored, or sanctioned by the city.
      (3)   In considering or acting upon a request for a "permit to exceed"
requested by a group other than a fraternity or sorority, the Chief of Police
or designee shall limit permits granted at any specific location to no more
than two "permits to exceed" per year.
   (D)   Fee for permit. Every application for a permit or permits shall
require a fee, and such fee shall be set out in the Manual of Fees for the
city.
   (E)   Conditions on permits. “Permits to exceed” and “outdoor amplified
sound permits” shall specify the duration for which noncompliance shall be
permitted and shall prescribe the conditions or requirements necessary to
minimize adverse effects upon the community or surrounding neighborhood. The
Chief of Police or designee may require but shall not be limited to the
following:
      (1)   No sound speakers may be set up more than ten feet off the ground;
      (2)   Permit holder(s) change the arrangement of amplifying equipment or
sound instruments upon the request of any Greenville police officer so as to
minimize the disturbance to others resulting from the position or orientation
of the amplifying equipment or from atmospherically or geographically caused
dispersal of sound beyond the property lines;
      (3)   Adjoining property owners surrounding the location proposed as the
site of the permitted event be notified by the applicant at least 72 hours
prior to the scheduled event, and also advised of the time by which cleanup of
the area will be accomplished. Notice to the adjoining property owners shall
include a statement indicating that comments or concerns regarding the issuance
of a permit at the proposed location may be made to the Chief of Police prior
to the event. These conditions are mandatory on all “permit to exceed”
applicants, except that neither this subsection nor subsection (E)(6) below
shall apply to university-sponsored events approved by the Chancellor on
university-owned property. For the purposes of the provision of notice to
adjoining property owners as required by this subsection, when the location
proposed as the site of the permitted event is at or within an apartment
complex or other multi-family dwelling development, adjoining property shall
include all units within the development which are wholly or partially within
100 feet of the site of the permitted event and all properties which either
abut directly on the external boundary of the development or are only separated
from the external boundary of the development by a street or the right-of-way
of a street, railroad or other public service corporation;
      (4)   No permitted event may last longer than four hours except that an
event may be permitted for longer than four hours if the event is held at Guy
Smith Stadium between Memorial Day and Labor Day;
      (5)   No event may extend beyond 11:00 p.m.;
      (6)   Permit holders hire off-duty Greenville police officers, equipped
with noise meters, to monitor compliance of the applicant with the conditions
on the permit. The applicant will be required to employ the following number of
off-duty Greenville police officers based on the estimated number of persons
attending the event:
         1–50         1 off-duty officer
         51–100      2 off-duty officers
         101 or more      4 or more off-duty officers as determined at the sole
discretion of the Chief of Police
   It is the responsibility of the permit holder to ensure that the number of
persons actually attending the event do not exceed the estimated numbers
specified in the application for determining the number of off-duty officers
required at the event.
      (7)   The site of the event, and the area surrounding the site of the
event, will be cleaned, by the applicant, of all the trash, litter and debris
by 10:00 a.m. the following day, or by sunset of the day of the event if the
event ends at least four hours before sunset;
      (8)   Misrepresentations, false, misleading or inaccurate information
provided in the application for an outdoor amplified sound permit will result
in the immediate revocation of the permit and may result in the denial of
future permits; and
      (9)   Applicants and others that may be responsible, according to the
terms of the permit application, are responsible for all costs, salaries and
expenses incurred by the city for violations of the permit to exceed the
outdoor amplified sound permit.
   (F)   Cooperation with police. Permit holder(s) shall agree to cooperate
with the Police Department in enforcing this chapter by having the signer(s) of
the permit available at the site of the event during the entire time for which
a permit has been issued and capable of assisting the police in enforcing the
noise control ordinance. Failure of such signer(s) of a permit to be present or
to assist the police in complying with the terms of the permit will be cause
for immediate revocation of the permit.
   (G)   Additional expenses. The applicant is responsible for the conduct of
those in attendance. If as a result of conduct of those in attendance
additional resources from the Greenville Police Department are required,
resources from the Fire Rescue Department and/or Public Works Department and/or
Engineering Department to address the problems caused or created by those in
attendance, the applicant and/or sponsoring organization shall reimburse the
city for the additional expenses incurred including but not limited to salary,
overtime, fuel, travel and other expenses directly related to the event.
   (H)   Penalties. A violation of this section may subject the violator to any
or all of the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than $100 and not more than $500.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   A violation of any of the provisions of this section shall
subject the violator to a civil penalty by way of a civil ticket in an amount
as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
            2.   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            3.   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
         (b)   Appeals; payment of civil penalty; delinquency charge. Unless
appealed in accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City
Code, a civil penalty assessed for a violation of any provision of this section
must be paid to and received by the revenue division of the city's Financial
Services Department within five business days from the date of issuance. If the
civil penalty is not timely paid to and received by the revenue division of the
city's Financial Services Department within five business days from the date of
issuance, the violator will be assessed an delinquency charge of an additional
$50 for each 72-hour period thereafter upon nonpayment until paid in full.
         (c)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city's Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
            1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
            2.   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
            3.   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
            4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction, including but not limited to nuisance abatement procedures.
            5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect,
satisfy, or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
            6.   The City Attorney, or his or her designee, is authorized to
file suit on behalf of the city to collect any unpaid civil penalties and any
delinquency charges, and the Police Chief, or his or her designee, is
authorized to verify and sign complaints on behalf of the city in such suits.
If litigation is required to recover the civil penalties and delinquency
charges, the City Attorney or his or her designee in addition to the civil
penalties and delinquency charges may recover reasonable attorneys' fees and
other costs incurred in bringing the action and collecting the judgment.
      (3)   Separate offenses. Each violation of this section and each day that
a violation continues is considered a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 05-108, passed 9-8-2005; Ord. No. 14-045, 1, passed 8-14-2014; Ord.
No. 18-014, § 2, passed 3-8-2018; Ord. No. 23-040, § 1, passed 5-11-2023; Ord.
No. 23-049, § 18, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 12-5-9 MOTOR VEHICLE NOISE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, operate, move or permit
to be driven, operated or moved a motor vehicle or combination of vehicles at
any time in such a manner that the sound level of the vehicle exceeds the
levels set forth for that category of vehicles as shown below:
TABLE 3: MAXIMUM MOTOR VEHICLE SOUND LEVEL IN dB(A)
 
Vehicle Type         Speed Limit 35 mph Speed Limit 35 mph Vehicle Stationary
                     or Less            or More
Motor vehicle with a
gross vehicle weight
rating (GVWR) of     81                 85                 83
less than 10,000
pounds
Motor vehicle with a
GVWR of more than    89                 94                 91
10,000 pounds
Motorcycle           81                 85                 83
Any other motor
vehicle or any
combination of       76                 80                 78
vehicles towed by
any motor vehicle
 
   (B)   Sound levels are to be measured at a distance of 25 feet from the
nearest lane(s) being monitored and at a height of at least four feet above the
immediate surrounding surface.
   (C)   This section shall apply to the total noise from a vehicle and shall
not be construed as limiting or precluding the enforcement of any other
provisions of this chapter relating to motor vehicle mufflers or noise control.
   (D)   Traffic, aircraft and other transportation noise sources and other
background noises shall not be considered in taking measurements under this
section.
   (E)   Penalties. A violation of this section may subject the violator to any
or all of the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than $100 and not more than $500.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   A violation of any of the provisions of this section shall
subject the violator to a civil penalty by way of a civil ticket in an amount
as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
            2.   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            3.   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
         (b)   Appeals; payment of civil penalty; delinquency charge. Unless
appealed in accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City
Code, a civil penalty assessed for a violation of any provision of this section
must be paid to and received by the revenue division of the city's Financial
Services Department within five business days from the date of issuance. If the
civil penalty is not timely paid to and received by the revenue division of the
city's Financial Services Department within five business days from the date of
issuance, the violator will be assessed an delinquency charge of an additional
$50 for each 72-hour period thereafter upon nonpayment until paid in full.
         (c)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city's Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
            1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
            2.   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
            3.   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
            4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction, including but not limited to nuisance abatement procedures.
            5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect,
satisfy, or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
            6.   The City Attorney, or his or her designee, is authorized to
file suit on behalf of the city to collect any unpaid civil penalties and any
delinquency charges, and the Police Chief, or his or her designee, is
authorized to verify and sign complaints on behalf of the city in such suits.
If litigation is required to recover the civil penalties and delinquency
charges, the City Attorney or his or her designee in addition to the civil
penalties and delinquency charges may recover reasonable attorneys' fees and
other costs incurred in bringing the action and collecting the judgment.
      (3)   Separate offenses. Each violation of this section and each day that
a violation continues is considered a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 05-108, passed 9-8-2005; Ord. No. 23-049, § 19, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 12-5-10 MUFFLERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be operated
a motor vehicle unless the exhaust system is free from defects, which affect
sound reduction.
   (B)   No person shall remove or render inoperative, or cause to be removed
or rendered inoperative, other than for purposes of maintenance, repair or
replacement, any muffler or sound dissipative device on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to modify the exhaust system of a
motor vehicle by the installation of a muffler cut-out or bypass, and no person
shall operate a motor vehicle which has been so modified.
   (D)   Penalties. A violation of this section may subject the violator to any
or all of the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than $100 and not more than $500.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   A violation of any of the provisions of this section shall
subject the violator to a civil penalty by way of a civil ticket in an amount
as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
            2.   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            3.   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
         (b)   Appeals; payment of civil penalty; delinquency charge. Unless
appealed in accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City
Code, a civil penalty assessed for a violation of any provision of this section
must be paid to and received by the revenue division of the city's Financial
Services Department within five business days from the date of issuance. If the
civil penalty is not timely paid to and received by the revenue division of the
city's Financial Services Department within five business days from the date of
issuance, the violator will be assessed an delinquency charge of an additional
$50 for each 72-hour period thereafter upon nonpayment until paid in full.
         (c)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city's Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
            1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
            2.   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
            3.   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
            4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction, including but not limited to nuisance abatement procedures.
            5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect,
satisfy, or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
            6.   The City Attorney, or his or her designee, is authorized to
file suit on behalf of the city to collect any unpaid civil penalties and any
delinquency charges, and the Police Chief, or his or her designee, is
authorized to verify and sign complaints on behalf of the city in such suits.
If litigation is required to recover the civil penalties and delinquency
charges, the City Attorney or his or her designee in addition to the civil
penalties and delinquency charges may recover reasonable attorneys' fees and
other costs incurred in bringing the action and collecting the judgment.
      (3)   Separate offenses. Each violation of this section and each day that
a violation continues is considered a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 05-108, passed 9-8-2005; Ord. No. 23-049, § 20, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 12-5-11 OFF-ROAD VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be operated
a recreational off-road motor vehicle individually, in a group, or in an
organized racing event, on public or private property in such a manner that the
sound level exceeds the maximum permissible levels set forth in section
12-5-9, Table 3, for motorcycles, adjusted to a distance of 25 feet from the
path of the vehicle when operated on public space, or the boundary private
property when operated on private property.
   (B)   This section shall apply to all recreational vehicles, whether or not
duly licensed or registered including, but not limited to commercial or
noncommercial racing vehicles, motorcycles, go-carts, amphibious craft and dune
buggies.
   (C)   Use of such vehicles off-road except for emergency purposes and except
to attain access from private property to public rights-of-way shall be
completely prohibited between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
   (D)   Penalties. A violation of this section may subject the violator to any
or all of the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than $100 and not more than $500.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   A violation of any of the provisions of this section shall
subject the violator to a civil penalty by way of a civil ticket in an amount
as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
            2.   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            3.   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
      (b)      Appeals; payment of civil penalty; delinquency charge. Unless
appealed in accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City
Code, a civil penalty assessed for a violation of any provision of this section
must be paid to and received by the revenue division of the City's Financial
Services Department within five business days from the date of issuance. If the
civil penalty is not timely paid to and received by the revenue division of the
City's Financial Services Department within five business days from the date of
issuance, the violator will be assessed an delinquency charge of an additional
$50 for each 72-hour period thereafter upon nonpayment until paid in full.
      (c)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city's Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
         1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
         2.   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
         3.   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
         4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction,
including but not limited to nuisance abatement procedures.
         5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect, satisfy,
or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
         6.   The City Attorney, or his or her designee, is authorized to file
suit on behalf of the city to collect any unpaid civil penalties and any
delinquency charges, and the Police Chief, or his or her designee, is
authorized to verify and sign complaints on behalf of the city in such suits.
If litigation is required to recover the civil penalties and delinquency
charges, the City Attorney or his or her designee in addition to the civil
penalties and delinquency charges may recover reasonable attorneys' fees and
other costs incurred in bringing the action and collecting the judgment.
      (3)   Separate offenses. Each violation of this section and each day that
a violation continues is considered a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 05-108, passed 9-8-2005; Ord. No. 23-049, § 21, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 12-5-12 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY FOR NOISE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)    No property owner shall allow a noise-related nuisance or health or
safety hazard to be created or maintained by or on account of tenants of the
property owner. For purposes of this section, a noise-related nuisance or
health or safety hazard shall be deemed to exist when a tenant or group of
tenants at a specific location receives a third citation for a noise ordinance
violation pursuant to this chapter. A property owner may be held liable for the
costs of abating the nuisance or remedying the health or safety hazard only if
the property owner has been notified in writing of the first two ordinance
violations. A property owner shall be liable for the costs of abating the
nuisance or remedying the health or safety hazard upon the third and any
subsequent action by the same tenant at a specific location, provided the third
violation occurs at least 15 days from the date of actual receipt of notice of
the second violation. It shall be a complete defense to a citation under this
subsection if the owner of the real property involved can prove that the
property owner is actively pursuing an eviction process according to law, and
that the eviction process was begun prior to the date of the third or any
subsequent violation by the same tenant at a specific location.
   (B)   Owners, property managers, agents, management companies, employees of
the owner, property manager, agent or management companies, and their family
members shall be responsible and liable for any violations of this chapter by
tenants, guests or licensees on the premises if the owners, property managers,
agents, management companies, employees of the owner, property manager, agent
or management companies or their family members are present at the time of the
violation.
   (C)   Notice of any previous violations pursuant to this section shall be
affected by registered or certified mail and by regular mail sent concurrently.
Alternately, notice may be affected by personal hand delivery and
acknowledgment of receipt by the owner or agent of the owner. If the certified
or registered notification is returned, but the regular mail notification is
not returned, it will be presumed the addressee received the notification. The
burden shall be on the addressee to establish that the notification was not
received.
   (D)   Penalties. A violation of this section may subject the violator to any
or all of the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A-175 and
shall pay a criminal penalty of not less than $100 and not more than $500.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   A violation of any of the provisions of this section shall
subject the violator to a civil penalty by way of a civil ticket in an amount
as follows:
            1.   First violation. A violation of this section shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty of $100.
            2.   Second violation within 365 days of the first violation. A
second violation of this section by the violator within 365 days from herein
defined first violation shall subject the violator to a civil penalty of $250.
            3.   Third and subsequent violations within 365 days of the first
violation. A third violation and any subsequent violations of this section by
the violator within 365 days from herein defined first violation shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per violation.
      (b)      Appeals; payment of civil penalty; delinquency charge. Unless
appealed in accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City
Code, a civil penalty assessed for a violation of any provision of this section
must be paid to and received by the revenue division of the city's Financial
Services Department within five business days from the date of issuance. If the
civil penalty is not timely paid to and received by the revenue division of the
city's Financial Services Department within five business days from the date of
issuance, the violator will be assessed an delinquency charge of an additional
$50 for each 72-hour period thereafter upon nonpayment until paid in full.
      (c)   Methods of recovery of unpaid civil penalty. Unless appealed in
accordance with Part II, Title 1, Chapter 1, Section 20 of the City Code, if
full payment for an assessed civil penalty is not timely received by the
revenue division of the city's Financial Services Department, the city may
recover the unpaid civil penalty by any or all of the following methods:
         1.   A civil action in the nature of a debt.
         2.   The use of a collections agency and the assessment of an
administrative fee.
         3.   The use of the provisions of Chapter 105A (The Setoff Debt
Collection Act) and G.S. 18C-134.
         4.   Equitable remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction,
including but not limited to nuisance abatement procedures.
         5.   Any other method authorized by law to secure, collect, satisfy,
or otherwise recover any civil penalty owed.
         6.   The City Attorney, or his or her designee, is authorized to file
suit on behalf of the city to collect any unpaid civil penalties and any
delinquency charges, and the Police Chief, or his or her designee, is
authorized to verify and sign complaints on behalf of the city in such suits.
If litigation is required to recover the civil penalties and delinquency
charges, the City Attorney or his or her designee in addition to the civil
penalties and delinquency charges may recover reasonable attorneys' fees and
other costs incurred in bringing the action and collecting the judgment.
      (3)   Separate offenses. Each violation of this section and each day that
a violation continues is considered a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 05-108, passed 9-8-2005; Ord. No. 23-049, § 22, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 12-5-13 ENFORCEMENT; ORAL NOTICE ALLOWED BUT NOT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Enforcement authorized. In addition to any employee authorized by the
City Manager to enforce the provisions of this chapter and take any civil
enforcement action as herein stated for any violations of this chapter, a
police officer is hereby authorized to enforce the provisions of this chapter
and may take any enforcement action as herein stated for any violations of this
chapter.
   (B)   Oral notice to abate the noise allowed; not mandatory.  When it is
reasonable and practical to do so, a person believed to be violating any
portion of this chapter may, but is not required to be given an oral notice to
cease or abate the noise immediately, or as soon as is reasonable or practical,
prior to being charged with a violation. If the oral notice to cease or abate
the noise is not complied with, the person or persons responsible for the
violation may be charged with a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 05-108, passed 9-8-2005; Ord. No. 23-049, § 23, passed 6-8-2023)
SEC. 12-5-14 PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)    Civil penalty. 
      (1)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall subject the
offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $100. In the event there is more
than one violation within any 30-day period, then the civil penalty shall be
increased for each additional violation over one during the period, as follows.
The date of the first violation shall establish the beginning date for the
initial 30-day period. The next violation within that 30-day period shall be
considered the second violation. Any violations that follow within that 30-day
period shall be numbered sequentially. The penalty shall be:
         (a)   Second offense within same 30-day period: $250; and
         (b)   Third and subsequent offenses within same 30-day period: $500.
      (2)   Once the 30-day period has run from the first violation, the next
violation shall be considered to be a first violation for the purposes of
establishing a new 30-day period. Each subsequent violation that follows more
than 30 days from the previous first violation shall be a new first violation
for the purpose of establishing a new 30-day period. Violators shall be issued
a written citation which must be paid within 72 hours of the issue date and
time, which penalty may provide for an additional $50 delinquency charge for
each 72-hour period thereafter upon nonpayment until paid in full. The City
Attorney, or his or her designee, is authorized to file suit on behalf of the
city to collect any unpaid citations and any delinquency charge, and the Police
Chief, or his or her designee, is authorized to verify and sign complaints on
behalf of the city in such suits. A police officer or other employee authorized
by the City Manager to enforce the noise control ordinances may issue a
citation for violations of this chapter. If litigation is required to recover
the penalties and delinquency charges, the City Attorney or his or her designee
in addition to the penalties and delinquency charges may recover reasonable
attorneys’ fees and other costs incurred in bringing the action and collecting
the judgment.
   (B)    Remedies. This chapter may also be enforced through equitable
remedies, including but not limited to nuisance abatement procedures as issued
by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. 05-108, passed 9-8-2005)
CHAPTER 6: REPAIR OF POTHOLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
Section
   
12-6-1   Patching and repairing of premises required
   
12-6-2   Notice to owners of failure to comply with section 12-6-1
   
12-6-3   Cost report
   
12-6-4   Lien for city’s cost
   
12-6-5   Authorization for voluntary patching or repairing of potholes
Cross-reference:
   Public works generally, see Title 6
SEC. 12-6-1 PATCHING AND REPAIRING OF PREMISES REQUIRED.
   Any person owning real property that is available for use by the general
public within the city is hereby required to patch and repair any and all
potholes located on that property and to keep such property free from potholes
at all times. This section, however, shall only apply to potholes which the
Public Works Director or his or her designee determine to be public health or
safety hazards.
(Ord. No. 2358, passed 8-8-1991)
SEC. 12-6-2 NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS OF FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH SECTION 12-6-1.
   It shall be the duty of the Director of Public Works or his or her designee
to serve written notice by certified mail at the last known address of every
property owner who shall fail or refuse to comply with the provisions of
section
12-6-1 requiring the property owner to patch and repair all potholes located on
the property within 30 days from the date of notice. If any property owner
served with the notice shall fail or refuse to patch or repair all potholes
located on the property within 30 days after such notice shall have been given
and served, the Director of Public Works or his or her designee shall have all
of the potholes located on the property patched and repaired immediately.
(Ord. No. 2358, passed 8-8-1991)
SEC. 12-6-3 COST REPORT.
   The Street Superintendent or his or her designee shall make a written report
of the actual costs incurred by the city in the patching and repairing of the
potholes from any lot pursuant to this chapter, and shall deliver the report to
the City Revenue Supervisor.
(Ord. No. 2358, passed 8-8-1991)
SEC. 12-6-4 LIEN FOR CITY’S COST.
   The owner of any lot upon which any potholes shall be repaired under the
direction and supervision of the Public Works Director or a designee, and after
the required notice shall have been given to the property owner as provided in
section
12-6-2, shall be liable to the city for the actual cost, plus reasonable
administrative charges incurred by the city in the repair. Such costs shall be
charged against the property owner and shall be collected in the same manner
and at the same time as the ad valorem taxes of the owner are collected, and
the costs shall be a lien on the real property subject only to the lien of the
city and county ad valorem taxes thereon.
(Ord. No. 2358, passed 8-8-1991)
SEC. 12-6-5 AUTHORIZATION FOR VOLUNTARY PATCHING OR REPAIRING OF POTHOLES.
   Any person owning real property containing potholes within the city may make
a voluntary request to the city for the Public Works Department to come on his
or her property and patch or repair the potholes. In consideration of this
request, the property owner agrees to reimburse the city for all costs of the
repair.
(Ord. No. 2358, passed 8-8-1991)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to 1971 Code
Disposition of Ordinances and Resolutions
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Citation Code Section
G.S. Citation     Code Section
1-117             9-1-75, 9-1-110
1-593             1-1-3
1A-1, Rule 4      9-8-15, 9-8-19, 9-8-20
Chapter 7A        9-6-4
7A-227            9-1-136
7A-228            9-1-136
Chapter 7B        12-7-7
12-3              1-1-3
Chapter 14        11-12-3
Chapter 14,       11-12-3
Article 13A
Chapter 14,
Articles 26 and   11-1-15, 11-1-84
27
Chapter 14,       12-5-6
Article 54
Chapter 14,       12-1-15
Article 54B
Chapter 14,       12-2-17
Article 55
                  1-1-5, 5-2-34, 6-2-96, 9-1-116, 9-1-119, 9-1-138, 9-1-142, 9-8-20, 10-2-15, 10-
14-4              2-20, 11-12-7, 12-1-2, 12-1-3, 12-1-9, 12-1-10—12-1-13, 12-1-18, 12-2-2, 12-2-
                  9, 12-2-12, 12-2-13, 12-2- 15, 12-2-17 - 12-2-20, 12-2-32, 12-2-35, 12-2-37 -
                  12-2-39, 12-2-41 - 12-2-43, 12-7-8
14-4(a)           10-2-53, 12-1-12
14-4(b)           10-2-212
14-159.7          12-1-3
14-159.13         12-1-11
14-204            11-12-3
14-269(b)         12-1-14, 12-1-15
14-269(c)         12-1-14
14-288.1 et seq.  5-3-6
14-288.1          5-3-16
14-288.20A        5-3-21
14-409.39(2)      5-3-16
14-409.39(3)      5-3-16
15-27.2           9-1-128, 9-9-17, 12-3-4, 12-3-24
15A-404           12-2-4
Chapter 18        11-1-15, 11-1-84
Chapter 18B       9-4-86, 12-1-2
18B-200           12-1-2
18B-300           12-1-2
18B-300.1         12-1-2
18B-1001          9-4-22, 9-4-86, 9-4-103, 11-13-1
18B-1001.5        12-1-2
18B-1100          12-1-2
18B-1104          9-4-86
18B-1105          9-4-86
                  1-1-5, 6-1-3, 9-1-40, 9-1-119, 9-1-143, 9-1-148, 9-5-171, 10-1-3, 10-2-15, 10-
                  2-16, 10-2-17, 10-2-19, 10-2-20, 10-2-110, 10-2-152, 11-2-13, 12-1-1—12-1-5,
18C-134           12-1-7, 12-1-11—12-1-14, 12-1-19, 12-1-20, 12-2-9, 12-2-12, 12-2-13, 12-2-15,
                  12-2-17 - 12-2-20, 12-2-22 - 12-2-33, 12-2-35, 12-2-37 - 12-2-39, 12-2-41 - 12-
                  2-43, 12-3-11, 12-3-33, 12-3-34, 12-5-4, 12-5-5, 12-5-8—12-5-12
19A-32.1          12-2-10
Chapter 20        Title 10, Ch. 2, 10-2-1, 11-1-21, 11-7-5, 12-1-2
20-4.01           6-2-50 , 10-2-1, 10-2-130
20-37.5           10-2-1, 10-2-5
20-37.5(2)        10-2-110
20-37.5(3)        10-2-110
20-114.1          10-2-2
20-157(f)         10-2-1
20-162(b)         10-2-4
20-171.1          10-2-1
20-171.8          10-2-1
20-183.3          11-1-51
20-219.11(a)      10-2-152
20-219.20         10-2-126
20-280.1          10-2-1
20-219.20         10-2-153
Chapter 29        9-5-5
29-219.11         11-7-15
Chapter 39,       9-5-3
Article 5A
Chapter 42,       9-4-103
Article 7
42-29             9-1-111, 9-1-137
42-30             9-1-111, 9-1-137
Chapter 44,       5-2-9
Article 9A
Chapter 44,       5-2-9
Article 9B
Chapter 44A       11-7-15
Chapter 44A,      12-4-11
Article 1
Chapter 47-30     9-5-3
through 47-32.1
47-30(11)         9-5-19
47-30(11)d.       9-5-19
Chapter 47A       9-5-3
Chapter 47C       9-4-103, 9-4-165, 9-4-167, 9-5-3
58-36-65          10-2-284
58-80-15          5-2-15
58-83-1           5-2-13
63-31             Title 9, Ch. 3
Chapter 66, Art.  Title 11
42
Chapter 67        12-2-2, 12-2-14
Chapter 67,       12-2-15
Article 1A
Chapter 68,       12-2-10
Article 3
Chapter 74,       9-8-4
Article 7
Chapter 74C       9-4-86, 9-4-103, 11-12-2
Chapter 74D       12-1-9
74-46 through 74- 9-8-10
68
Chapter 85B       11-11-2
87-14             9-1-32
Chapter 89B       6-5-24, 6-5-27
Chapter 90        11-1-15, 11-1-84
Chapter 90,       12-1-9
Article 5
90-95             11-12-3
90-620 et seq.    11-10-11
105-109(d)        3-2-43
105-249           3-2-38
105-249.1         3-2-38
105-271 et seq.   10-3-1, 10-3-2
105-302           12-5-2
105-347           3-2-11
105-349           3-2-51
105-350           2-2-1
105-360           3-2-12
Chapter 105,
Subchapter 1,     3-2-59
Article 5
Chapter 105,
Subchapter 1,     3-2-58
Article 9
Chapter 105,
Subchapter VIII,  3-2-58
Article 5
Chapter 105,      6-5-24, 6-5-27
Article 12
Chapter 105,      3-2-12
Article 25
                  9-1-40, 9-1-119, 9-1-143, 9-1-148, 12-1-2, 12-1-3, 12-2-9, 12-2-12, 12-2-13,
Chapter 105A      12-2-15, 12-2-17 - 12-2-20, 12-2-22 - 12-2-33, 12-2-35, 12-2-37 - 12-2-39, 12-
                  2-41 - 12-2-43, 12-3-11, 12-3-33, 12-3-34
106-181.1         9-4-22
106-403           12-2-31
Chapter 106,      12-2-43
Article 4C
106.581.1         9-4-22
106-645           12-2-2
113-129(15a)      12-2-19
113-130(7)        12-1-3
113-273           9-4-200.10
113-274(c)(1a)    12-2-43
Chapter 113,      12-2-43
Article 22A
Chapter 113A      9-5-45
113A-1 et seq.    9-8-17
113A-50 et seq.   9-8-3
113A54.1(b)       9-8-17
113A-56(a)        9-8-4
113A-57           9-8-6
113A-57(3)        9-8-22
113A-61(b1)       9-8-17
113A-61(c)        9-8-18
113A-64           9-8-3, 9-8-20
113A-64(a)(3)     9-8-20
113A-64(b)        9-8-17
113A-65.1         9-8-20
115C-457.2        9-8-20
119-55            Title 9, Ch. 1
121-5             3-2-40
121-12(a)         9-7-20
122-3(11)b        9-4-22
125-5             2-3-60
Chapter 130A,     9-4-22, 9-6-2
Article 9
130A-185          12-2-1
130A-192          12-2-2
130A-290(a)(6)    9-6-2
130A-290(a)(35)   9-6-2
130A-290(a)(36)   9-6-2
Chapter 131 E,    11-1-1
Article 7
Chapter 131F      11-4-25
Chapter 136,      9-5-3
Article 7
136-30            10-2-110
136-44.14         10-2-110
136-91            6-2-11
136-141 et seq.   12-4-14
136-143           12-4-14
Chapter 139       9-8-3
Chapter 143,      3-1-11, 3-1-12, 3-1-13, 3-1-26
Article 8
Chapter 143,
Article 21, Part  9-6-1
6
Chapter 143,      2-1-12, 2-3-2
Article 33C
Chapter 143,      12-2-44
Article 52
143-129           3-1-4
143-131           3-1-4
143-143.9(6)      10-2-131
143-143.15        9-6-5
143-145(7)        9-1-93
143-212(6)        9-9-4
143-213(16a)      9-9-4
143-214.5         9-4-74, 9-4-197
143-214.7         9-9-2
143-214.7(a1)(1)  9-9-4
143-214.7(a1)(2)  9-9-4
143-214.7(b2)     9-9-4
143-214.7(b3)     9-9-5
143-214.21        9-9-12
143-214.26        9-9-12
143-215.6A        9-9-2
143-215.58        9-6-3, 9-6-4
143B-437.09    9-1-70
Chapter 150B      9-8-20
153A-265          2-3-60
153A-454          9-9-2
159-7 et seq.     2-2-2
159-25            2-2-2, 3-1-3
159-28            3-1-2, 3-1-25
159-29            2-1-2
Chapter 160A,     9-6-1, 10-2-152
Article 8
Chapter 160A,     9-1-112, 9-1-136
Article 10
160A-31           9-4-36
160A-58.1         9-4-36
160A-64           2-1-17
160A-68 et seq.   2-1-11
160A-71           2-1-12
160A-72           Title 2, Ch. 2
160A-74           2-1-15
160A-75           2-1-15
160A-76           Title 5, Ch. 2
160A-77           Adopting Ordinance, 8-1-1
160A-78           2-1-34, 2-1-36
160A-79           1-1-1, 2-1-33
160A-171          Title 2, Ch. 2
160A-173          Title 2, Ch. 2
160A-174          1-1-5, 5-3-6, 9-9-2, 12-2-2, Title 12, Ch. 3
                  1-1-5, 2-3-52, 5-2-34, 9-4-86, 10-2-15, 10-2-20, 11-2-13, 11-11-14, 12-1-2, 12-
160A-175          1-3, 12-1-4, 12-1-7, 12-1-11, 12-1-12, 12-1-14, 12-2-2, 12-2-9, 12-2-12, 12-2-
                  13, 12-2-15, 12-2- 17 - 12-2-20, 12-2-32, 12-2-35, 12-2-37 - 12-2-39, 12-2-41 -
                  12-2-43, 12-3-33, 12-5-4, 12-5-5, 12-5-8—12-5-12
160A-182          12-2-2
160A-185          9-9-2
160A-186          12-2-2
160A-187          12-2-2
160A-189          9-4-200.10, 12-1-3
160A-190          12-1-3
160A-191          Title 11
160A-192          Title 6, Ch. 3
160A-193          Title 12, Ch. 3
160A-200.1        12-3-8
160A-200.1(b)     12-3-8
160A-205.4        12-1-2
160A-206          Title 3, Ch. 2
160A-207          3-2-43
160A-208.1        3-2-54
160A-209          3-2-11
160A-211          Title 3, Ch. 2; 3-2-52
160A-272          10-2-153
160A-281          5-1-3, 5-1-4
160A-282          5-1-8
160A-284          5-1-5
160A-288          5-1-21
160A-291          Title 5, Ch. 2
160A-293          5-2-12
160A-296          Title 6, Ch. 2 ;
                  6-2-14
160A-296.1        6-2-14
160A-300          10-2-152
160A-301          10-2-152
160A-302          10-2-152
160A-303          10-2-152, 11-7-15, 12-3-4, Title 12, Chapter 4, 12-4-1
160A-303.1        12-1-4
160A-304          Title 11, Chapter 1; 11-1-120
160A-309          3-1-12
160A-311          3-1-13
160A-311 et seq.  Title 8; Title 10, Ch. 1
160A-314(a1)(6)   8-3-9
160A-317          Title 6, Ch. 3
160A-320          3-1-13
160A-341          Title 6, Ch. 4
160A-348          Title 6, Ch. 4
160A-350 et seq.  Title 7
160A-354          Title 7, Ch. 2
160A-360          5-2-32
160A-492          Title 2, Ch. 3; 2-3-11
160A-493          12-2-2
160A-499          3-1-11
Chapter 160D      9-4-22, 9-9-2
Chapter 160D,     9-1-30
Article 2
Chapter 160D,     9-5-3
Article 8
Chapter 160D,     9-6-1
Article 9, Part 2
Chapter 160D,     6-2-14
Article 9, Part 3
Chapter 160D,     9-7-1, 9-7-12
Article 9, Part 4
Chapter 160D,     9-1-22
Article 11   
Chapter 160D,     9-1-91, 9-1-93
Article 12
160D-102          9-4-22, 9-9-3
160D-102(12)      9-4-22
160D-102(13)      9-9-4
160D-108          9-4-22, 9-4-34, 9-9-5, 9-9-6
160D-108(d)(2)    9-4-35
160D-108.1        9-4-22, 9-4-34, 9-4-36
160D-109          9-1-25, 9-1-109, 9-1-129, 9-2-8
160D-109(a)       9-4-333
160D-109(b)       9-4-333
160D-109(c)       9-1-25, 9-1-129
160D-109(d)       9-4-319, 9-7-9
160D-201          9-1-30
160D-202(i)       9-5-18
160D-301          Title 9, Ch. 2, 9-2-8, 9-4-22, 9-5-5, 9-5-162
160D-302          9-4-316
160D-307          9-2-2
160D-403          9-1-22
160D-403(f)       9-4-34
160D-404          9-4-86
160D-404(6)       9-1-27
160D-406          9-1-74, 9-4-179, 9-9-18
160D-502          9-2-8
160D-601          9-1-70, 9-4-331
160D-604          Title 9, Ch. 2, 9-2-8, 9-4-22, 9-5-5
160D-705          9-4-179
160D-705(c)       9-4-166
160D-705(d)       9-3-8
160D-801 et seq.  Title 9, Ch. 5
160D-802          9-4-22
160D-803          9-5-14, 9-5-41
160D-803(c)       9-5-16, 9-5-17
160D-804(1)       9-5-142
160D-903          9-4-22
160D-907          9-4-22
160D-925          9-9-2
160D-931          9-4-22
160D-1001         9-9-15
160D-1102 et seq. Title 9, Ch. 1
160D-1108         9-1-25, 9-1-129
160D-1110         9-1-32, 9-1-33
160D-1111         9-1-36
160D-1112         9-1-37
160D-1115         9-1-35
160D-1116         9-1-22
160D-1119—160D- Title 9, Ch. 1, Art. E
1125
160D-1120         9-1-139
160D-1121         9-1-77
160D-1124         9-1-40, 9-1-131, 9-1-143
160D-1128         9-1-60
160D-1128(c)      9-1-61
160D-1128(d)      9-1-61
160D-1129         9-1-122
160D-1129(f)      9-1-131, 9-1-137, 9-1-138
160D-1129(g)      9-1-138
160D-1129(h)      9-1-135
160D-1129(i)      9-1-136
160D-1201 et seq. Title 9, Ch. 1
160D-1201         9-1-91
160D-1201—1212 9-1-91
160D-1203         Title 9, Ch. 1, 9-1-115
160D-1203(3)      9-1-111
160D-1203(4)      9-1-111, 9-1-116, 9-1-119
160D-1203(6)      9-1-111
160D-1206         9-1-111, 9-1-114
160D-1208(d)      9-1-111, 9-1-140, 9-1-141
160D-1402         9-7-14
163-292           2-1-51
163-294.2(e)      2-1-53
164-7             1-1-17
Chapter 166A      5-3-6
Chapter 166A,     5-3-9
Article 1A
166A-7            5-3-1
166A-19.3         5-3-7
166A-19.22        5-3-7, 5-3-8
166A-19.70(c),    5-3-13
(d)
                  
 
REFERENCES TO 1971 CODE
1971 Code 2009 Code
1971 Code 2009 Code
2-2-4     2-2-1
2-2-5     2-2-2
2-3-3     2-3-2
2-3-4     2-3-1
5-2-22    5-2-9
5-2-23    5-2-6
5-2-13    5-2-14
9-4-67    9-4-66
9-4-69    9-4-67
9-4-73    9-4-69
9-4-76    9-4-73
9-4-340   9-4-339
9-5-60    9-5-51
9-5-61    9-5-52
9-5-62    9-5-53
9-5-63    9-5-54
9-5-64    9-5-55
9-5-65    9-5-56
9-5-66    9-5-57
9-5-67    9-5-58
9-5-68    9-5-59
9-10-14   9-7-11
9-10-15   9-7-12
9-10-17   9-7-13
9-10-18   9-7-14
9-10-19   9-7-15
9-10-20   9-7-16
9-10-20.1 9-7-17
9-10-21   9-7-18
9-10-22   9-7-19
9-10-23   9-7-20
9-10-24   9-7-21
9-10-25   9-7-22
9-10-26   9-7-23
9-10-27   9-7-24
10-1-4    10-1-3
11-10-2   11-10-1
11-10-3   11-10-2
11-10-4   11-10-3
11-13-1   11-8-1
11-13-2   11-8-2
11-13-3   11-8-3
11-13-4   11-8-4
11-13-5   11-8-5
11-13-6   11-8-6
11-13-7   11-8-7
11-13-8   11-8-8
11-13-9   11-8-9
11-13-10  11-8-10
11-13-11  11-8-11
11-13-12  11-8-12
12-1-21   12-1-1
 
DISPOSITION OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Subject Code Section/ Disposition
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Subject        Code Section/ Disposition
No.
      4-9-   Amending
09-27 2009   zoning         9-4-22, 9-4-78, 9-4-85, 9-4-86, 9-4-103, 9-4-252
             ordinance
      4-9-   Amending Human
09-31 2009   Relations      2-3-12
             Council
             Amending solid
09-39 5-14-  waste          12-3-4
      2009   collection;
             nuisances
             Adding
             temporary
09-43 6-8-   parking        10-2-149
      2009   restrictions
             for special
             events
      8-13-  Amending
09-59 2009   zoning         9-4-86, 9-4-153, 9-4-250
             ordinance
      9-10-  Amending
09-74 2009   zoning         9-4-102
             ordinance
      9-10-  Amending
09-75 2009   zoning         9-4-22, 9-4-78, 9-4-85, 9-4-86
             ordinance
             Amending
             provisions
09-76 9-10-  regarding      2-3-42, 2-3-43
      2009   Community
             Appearance
             Commission
      10-8-  Amending
09-88 2009   Neighborhoo d  2-3-81, 2-3-83, 2-3-85, 2-3-86
             Advisory Board
             Adding
09-98 12-10- regulations    11-12-1—11- 12-7
      2009   for public/
             privat e clubs
      3-4-   Amending
09-99 2010   zoning         9-4-22, 9-4-78, 9-4-161—9-4 -170, 9-4-196, 9-4-252
             ordinance
             Amending
             provisions
      1-11-  regarding
10-04 2010   Public         2-3-21, 2-3-24
             Transportation
             and Parking
             Commission
10-08 2-11-  Adopting Code  Adopting Ordinance
      2010   of Ordinances
      2-11-  Amending
10-11 2010   zoning         9-4-86
             ordinance
      3-4-   Amending
10-19 2010   zoning         9-4-76, 9-4-200.1
             ordinance
      3-4-   Amending
10-22 2010   zoning         Ch. 9-4, App. A
             ordinance
             Amending
      4-5-   regulations
10-28 2010   prohibiting    12-1-18
             obstruction of
             sidewalks
             Adding appeal
             process for
      4-5-   civil
10-29 2010   citations      1-1-20
             unless
             otherwise
             specified
      4-8-   Amending
10-33 2010   zoning         9-4-186
             ordinance
      4-8-   Amending
10-34 2010   zoning         9-4-149, 9-4-163, 9-4-164, 9-4-182, 9-4-268
             ordinance
      5-13-  Amending
10-44 2010   zoning         9-4-234
             ordinance
             Adding
10-50 6-10-  regulations    9-7-18.1
      2010   for solar
             collectors
      8-12-  Amending
10-67 2010   parking        9-4-248
             regulations
      8-12-  Amending
10-68 2010   zoning         9-4-86
             ordinance
      10-14- Amending
10-83 2010   zoning         9-4-86, 9-4-103
             ordinance
      10-14- Amending
10-84 2010   zoning         9-4-94
             ordinance
      11-8-  Amending land
10-96 2010   use map        9-4-334.1
             regulations
10-   12-9-  Amending
106   2010   zoning         9-4-22, 9-4-85, 9-4-86, 9-4-103, 9-4 App. A
             ordinance
             Amending
10-   12-9-  regulations    12-2-27
107   2010   for urban
             beekeeping
             Amending soil
11-   4-11-  erosion and
018   2011   sedimentation  9-8-7
             control
             regulations
11-   5-12-  Amending
022   2011   zoning         9-4-234
             ordinance
11-   9-8-   Amending
055   2011   zoning         9-4-22, 9-4-78
             ordinance
             Amending
11-   10-10- regulations
057   2011   for motorized  12-1-8
             vehicles on
             greenways
11-   10-13- Amending
061   2011   zoning         9-4-95
             ordinance
             Amending
11-   11-14- regulations    12-1-14
065   2011   for concealed
             handguns
             Amending
11-   11-17- regulation     11-1-1—11-1 -8, 11-1-12—11- 1-22, 11-1-51—11- 1-54, 11-1-61—11- 1-67, 11-1-81—11- 1-
069   1201   regarding      90, 11-1-100—1 1-1-105, 11-1-119—1 1-1-121, 11-1-128—1 1-1-133, 11-1-140
             vehicles for
             hire
             Amending
             regulations
11-   11-17- for vehicles   11-1-120
070   2011   for hire and
             the city
             manual of fees
11-   11-17- Amending
073   2011   zoning         9-4-266, 9-4-267
             ordinance
11-   12-8-  Amending
078   2011   zoning         9-4-103, 9-4-186
             ordinance
12-   1-12-  Amending
004   2012   zoning         9-4-103
             ordinance
12-   3-8-   Amending
011   2012   zoning         9-3-5
             ordinance
12-   4-12-  Amending
017   2012   zoning         9-4-222, 9-4-227
             ordinance
             Amending
12-   5-7-   certain
018   2012   definitions    10-2-1, 10-2-112
             for traffic
             regulations
             Amending
             traffic
12-   8-6-   regulations by
031   2012   establishing a 10-2-175
             downtown
             parking permit
             program
12-   8-9-   Amending
033   2012   zoning         9-4-103
             ordinance
12-   9-13-  Amending
040   2012   zoning         9-4-22
             ordinance
12-   10-11- Amending
044   2012   zoning         9-4-103, 9-4 App. A
             ordinance
12-   10-11- Amending
045   2012   zoning         9-4-77, 9-4-103, 9-4-200.2
             ordinance
12-   11-8-  Amending
051   2012   zoning         9-4-103, 9-4 App. A
             ordinance
12-   12-13- Amending
069   2012   zoning         9-4-22, 9-4-103, 9-4 App. A
             ordinance
13-   2-14-  Amending
007   2013   zoning         9-4-22, 9-4-103, 9-4 App. A
             ordinance
13-   4-11-  Amending
014   2013   zoning         9-4-22, 9-4-85, 9-4-86, 9-4 App. A
             ordinance
13-   4-11-  Amending
015   2013   zoning         9-6-3
             ordinance
13-   5-9-   Amending
020   2013   zoning         9-4-94
             ordinance
             Amending
13-   5-9-   regulations    11-12-3, 11-12-4, 11-12-7
021   2013   for public or
             private clubs
             Amending
13-   5-9-   regulations
022   2013   for uptown     6-2-1, 6-2-3, 6-2-60—6-2-68
             outdoor dining
             permits
             Amending
13-   6-13-  regulations
028   2013   for controlled 10-2-241, 10-2-247
             residential
             parking areas
13-   8-5-   Amending
030   2013   traffic        10-2-1, 10-2-150, 10-2-221
             regulations
13-   9-12-  Amending
037   2013   zoning         9-4-255
             ordinance
             Amending
13-   9-12-  regulations    12-1-14
044   2013   for concealed
             handguns
             Amending
13-   9-12-  regulations
045   2013   for uptown     6-2-63
             outdoor dining
             permits
             Amending the
13-   9-12-  definition of  2-3-81
046   2013   neighborhood
             associations
             Adding
             regulations
14-   2-13-  regarding
010   2014   outside tire   9-4-86, 9-4-103
             storage and
             display
             standards
             Amending
             zoning
             regulations
             regarding the
14-   4-10-  University     9-4-77, 9-4-103, 9-4-200.2
020   2014   Neighborhood
             Revitalization
             Initiative
             (UNRI) Overlay
             District
             Amending flood
14-   5-8-   damage         9-6-2, 9-6-3
031   2014   prevention
             regulations
             Amending fees
14-   6-9-   relate to      3-2-21
035   2014   privilege
             license taxes
             Amending
             regulations
14-   6-12-  regarding      9-4-317
041   2014   board of
             Adjustment
             membership
14-   8-14-  Amending noise 12-5-8
045   2014   regulations
14-   8-14-  Amending
048   2014   zoning         9-4-22, 9-4-78, 9-4-86, 9-4 App. A
             ordinance
             Amending named
14-   8-14-  access and     6-2-33, 6-2-51, 9-4-22, 9-4-150, 9-4-166, 9-4-168, 9-4-183, 9-4-204, 9-4 App. A, 9-
049   2014   zoning         5-5, 9-5-45, 9-5-81
             ordinance
14-   9-11-  Amending
058   2014   zoning         9-4-78
             ordinance
14-   11-10- Amending open
064   2014   burning        12-1-19
             regulations
14-   11-13- Amending
073   2014   zoning         9-4-281
             ordinance
14-   11-13- Amending
074   2014   zoning         9-4-252
             ordinance
15-   1-12-  Amending
003   2015   traffic        10-2-147
             regulations
15-   2-12-  Amending sign  9-4-234
010   2015   regulations
15-   4-9-   Amending
019   2015   zoning         9-4-22, 9-4-78, 9-4-103
             ordinance
15-   4-9-   Amending
020   2015   zoning         9-4-22, 9-4-78, 9-4-86
             ordinance
15-   5-14-  Amending
024   15     zoning         9-4-145
             ordinance
15-   8-13-  Amending
041   2015   zoning         9-4-78, 9-4-86
             ordinance
             Amending
15-   8-13-  vacated        9-1-145—9-1-147
042   2015   building
             regulations
15-   8-13-  Amending
043   2015   traffic        10-2-258 — 10-2-262
             regulations
15-   9-1-   Amending City
044   2015   Council        2-1-11
             meetings
             Amending
15-   8-13-  streets and
045   2015   sidewalks and  6-2-75—6-2-83
             outdoor dining
             permit
15-   9-10-  Amending
051   2015   zoning         9-4-22, 9-4-78, 9-4-86
             ordinance
15-   10-5-  Amending
055   2015   animal         12-2-37
             regulations
15-   10-8-  Amending
058   2015   zoning         9-4-145, 9-4-150
             ordinance
15-   10-8-  Amending
059   2015   zoning         9-4-22, 9-4-78, 9-4-85, 9-4-86
             ordinance
15-   11-12- Amending       12-2-1—12-2 -7, 12-2-11, 12-2-13, 12-2-14, 12-2-16, 12-2-17, 12-2-19, 12-2-26—12- 2-
063   2015   animal         28, 12-2-34, 12-2-37—12-2-39, 12-2-42
             regulations
15-   12-10- Amending
067   2015   zoning         9-4-86
             ordinance
16-   1-14-  Amending
003   2016   zoning         9-4-22, 9-4-78, 9-4-103
             ordinance
16-   2-11-  Amending
010   2016   zoning         9-4-78, 9-4-86, 9-4-200.1, 9-4 App. A
             ordinance
16-   8-18-  Amending
051   2016   subdivision    9-5-46
             ordinance
16-   9-8-   Amending
054   2016   zoning         9-4-29
             ordinance
16-   12-5-  Amending
063   2016   animal control 12-2-37
             provisions
16-   12-8-  Amending
066   2016   zoning         9-4-22, 9-4-78, 9-4-98, 9-4-103, 9-4 App. A
             ordinance
             Adding
             distributed
16-   12-8-  antenna system 6-2-906-2-96
067   2016   (DAS)
             equipment
             provisions
17-   4-10-  Amending
030   2017   subdivision    9-5-44
             ordinance
17-   5-11-  Amending
036   2017   zoning         9-4-103
             ordinance
17-   8-10-  Sunday sales   11-13-1
048   2017   of alcohol
18-   3-8-   Amending noise 12-5-6, 12-5-8
014   2018   regulations
18-   6-14-  Amending
035   2018   zoning         9-4-78, 9-4 App. A
             ordinance
18-   6-14-  Amending
036   2018   zoning         9-4-78, 9-4 App. A
             ordinance
18-   6-14-  Amending
037   2018   zoning         9-4-271, 9-4-272
             ordinance
18-   10-11- Amending
055   2018   zoning         9-4-197
             ordinance
19-   2-14-  Amending
014   2019   zoning         9-7-12
             ordinance
19-   4-8-   Amending
020   2019   uptown outdoor 6-2-60, 6-2-62, 6-2-63, 6-2-77, 6-2-78
             dining area
19-   4-11-  Amending
025   2019   zoning         9-4 App. A
             ordinance
             Renaming the   6-2-13, 6-2-67, 6-2-82, 7-2-22, 9-2-2, 9-3-3, 9-3-9 - 9-3-11, 9-3-14, 9-4-7, 9-4-22,
             Community      9-4-86, 9-4-103, 9-4-117, 9-4-119, 9-4-130, 9-4-142, 9-4-145, 9-4-146, 9-4-149, 9-4-
19-   9-12-  Development to 163, 9-4-164, 9-4-166, 9-4-170, 9-4-182, 9-4-186, 9-4-197, 9-4-199, 9-4-225, 9-4-
045   2019   Planning and   236, 9-4-244, 9-4-246, 9-4-253, 9-4-262, 9-4-265, 9-4-267, 9-4-268, 9-4-272, 9-4-
             Development    303, 9-4-320, 9-4-336, 9-4-349, 9-4-352, 9-5-5, 9-5-18, 9-5-44 - 9-5-47, 9-5-50 - 9-
             Services       5-53, 9-5-55, 9-5-56, 9-5-81, 9-7-12, 9-7-14, 9-8-20, 11-11-3, 12-1-5
             Digital
19-   10-10- broadcast      9-4-22, 9-4-103, 9-4, App. A
051   2019   studio
             regulations
             Adopting pet
19-   10-10- grooming       9-4-22, 9-4-103, 9-4, App. A
052   2019   facility
             regulations
             Amending
19-   12-12- drive-through  9-4-22, 9-4-233
057   2019   facilities
             regulations
20-   3-12-  Amending flag  9-4-200.3, 9-4-222. 9-4-277, 9-4-234
016   2020   regulations
             Creating the
20-   5-18-  Mixed Use
020   2020   Institutional  9-4-22, 9-4-77.3, 9-4200.4, 9-4 App. A
             zoning
             district
             Amending flood
20-   5-18-  damage         9-6-1—9-6-6
022   2020   prevention
             ordinance
20-   6-15-  Amending
034   2020   zoning         9-4 App. A
             ordinance
             Creating the
20-   6-15-  Recreational/  9-4-200.10, 12-1-3, 12-1-20
035   2020   Sport Hunting
             Overlay
20-   9-14-  Small private
052   2020   schools        9-4-22, 9-4-103, 9-4 App. A
             regulations
             Creating
             Multimodal
             Transportation
20-   10-19- Commission;    2-3-21 - 2-3-25 2-3-91 - 2-3-96
057   2020   dissolving
             Bicycle and
             Pedestrian
             Commission
20-   10-19- Agricultural
059   2020   master plan    9-4-22, 9-4-103, 9-4-161 - 9-4-166, 9-4-167.1, 9-4-168, 9-4-170
             communities
20-   11-16- Amending
064   2020   zoning         9-4-22, 9-4-86, 9-4 App. A
             ordinance
20-   12-14- States of      5-3-6—5-3-21
070   2020   emergency
21-   1-19-  Amending
003   2021   zoning         9-4-100, 9-4-235, 9-4 App. A
             ordinance
21-   2-15-  Amending
010   2021   zoning         9-4-22, 9-4-268, 12-3-4
             ordinance
             Dissolving
21-   3-8-   Community      2-3-41 - 2-3-44
012   2021   Appearance
             Commission
21-   4-12-  Amending
019   2021   zoning         9-4-145, 9-4-162, 9-4-163, 9-4-166, 9-4-168, 9-4-170, 9-4-179, 9-4-186, 9-4 App. A?
             ordinance
                            9-2-8, 9-3-8, 9-4-4, 9-4-5, 9-4-7, 9-4-22, 9-4-34- 9-4-38, 9-4-84, 9-4-85, 9-4-103,
21-   6-21-  Amending Title 9-4-106, 9-4-130, 9-4-151, 9-4-162, 9-4-163, 9-4-165, 9-4-166, 9-4-170, 9-4-179, 9-
032   2021   9              4-186, 9-4-244, 9-4-253, 9-4-316, 9-4-317, 9-4-319, 9-4-320, 9-4-331, 9-4-333, 9-4-
                            337, 9-5-3 - 9-5-5, 9-5-14, 9-5-16 - 9-5-18, 9-5-41, 9-5-46, 9-5-142, 9-5-162, 9-6-
                            1, 9-7-1, 9-7-2, 9-7-9, 9-7-12, 9-7-14 - 9-7-16, 9-7-18.1, 9-7-20, 9-8-2
21-   9-9-   Amending
051   2021   zoning         9-4-86, 9-4 App. A
             ordinance
21-   11-8-  Amending
058   2021   zoning         9-4-103
             ordinance
21-   10-14- Allowing low-
060   2021   speed vehicle  11-1-1, 11-1-52, 11-1-145
             taxicabs
21-   11-8-  Amending
062   2021   zoning         9-4-232
             ordinance
22-   1-24-  Amending
013   2022   zoning         9-4-22, 9-4-86, 9-4-103, 9-4 App. A
             ordinance
22-   1-24-  Amending
014   2022   zoning         9-4-122, 9-4-103, 9-4 App. A
             ordinance
22-   2-10-  Firearms and   12-1-3
018   2022   weapons
22-   5-12-  Amending
041   2022   zoning         9-4-94
             ordinance
22-   5-23-  Animals        12-2-1 - 12-2-20, 12-2-22 - 12-2-39, 12-2-41 - 12-2-43
044   2022
22-   6-9-   Amending
054   2022   zoning         9-4 App. A
             ordinance
22-   6-9-   Amending
056   2022   zoning         9-6-2, 9-6-5
             ordinance
22-   6-27-  Police tow     11-7-9
058   2022   service rates
             Alcoholic
22-   8-18-  beverages;     12-1-2
071   2022   social
             districts
23-   1-12-  Amending
012   2023   zoning         9-4-22, 9-4-85, 9-4-86
             ordinance
23-   1-12-  Amending
013   2023   zoning         9-4-22, 9-4-86
             ordinance
             Alcoholic
23-   1-9-   beverages;     12-1-2
014   2023   social
             districts
23-   5-16-  Library Board  2-3-60
034   2023
23-   5-11-  Amending
039   2023   zoning -       9-4-103
             tobacco shops
             Amending       2-3-73, 6-1-1, 6-1-4, 6-2- 12, 6-2-33, 6-2-36, 6-2-40, 6-2-40.1, 6-2-50, 6-2-62, 6-
23-   5-11-  several        2-77, 6-2-91, 6-2-93, 8-3-7, 8-3-9, 9-4-22, 9-4-95, 9-4-100, 9-4-103, 9-4-104, 9-4-
040   2023   sections of    120, 9-4-133, 9-4-150, 9-4-162, 9-4-167, 9-4-168, 9-4-183, 9-4-201, 9-4-202, 9-4-
             city code      281, 9-5-2, 9-5-5, 9-5-11, 9-5-45, 9-5-80, 9-5-81, 9-5-82, 9-5-120, 9-5-123, 9-5-
                            143, 9-8-3— 9-8-10, 9-8-16—9-8-20, 11-1-1, 11-1-6, 12-1-11, 12-3-4, 12-5-8
             Repealing,
             replacing and
23-   6-8-   revising       10-1-3, 10-2-1 - 10-2-26, 10-2-100 - 10-2-131, 10-2-149 - 10-2-156
045   2023   several
             portions of
             city code
             Making
             technical
23-   6-8-   revisions to   1-1-5, 2-3-52, 2-3-62, 5-2-34, 6-1-2, 6-1-3, 9-5-9, 9-5-13, 9-5-171, 11-1-140, 11-2-
048   2023   several        13, 11-11-14
             portions of
             the city code
             Making
23-   6-8-   revisions to   12-1-1, 12-1-4, 12-1-5, 12-1-7, 12-1-10, 12-1-12—12-1-14, 12-1-19, 12-1-20, 12-2-16,
049   2023   portions of    12-5-4, 12-5-5, 12-5-8—12-5-13
             Title 12
             Making
             revisions to
23-   8-7-   exceptions     12-1-2
050   2023   regarding
             alcoholic
             beverages
23-   8-10-  Amending       9-4-200.4
058   2023   zoning code
23-   8-10-  Amending       9-4-86, 9-4 Appendix
060   2023   zoning code
             Amending
23-   8-10-  zoning code    9-4-22, 9-4-86, 9-4-103, 9-4 Appendix
061   2023   re: beer and
             wine shops
23-   10-19- Amending
073   2023   zoning code    9-4 Appendix
             table of uses
             Repealing and
             replacing
23-   12-14- inspections    9-1-1—9-1-5, 9-1-20—9-1-27, 9-1-30—9-1-40, 9-1-60, 9-1-61, 9-1-70—9-1-78, 9-1-90—9-
082   2023   and code       1-119, 9-1-121—9-1-143, 9-1-145—9-1-148, 9-1-151, 9-1-152
             enforcement
             regulations
23-   12-14- Amending weed
083   2023   and vegetation 12-3-1—12-3-11, 12-3-22—12-3-24, 12-3-31—12-3-34
             regulations
24-   1-11-  Amending
004   2024   subdivision    9-5-19
             ordinance
24-   3-14-  Amending
018   2024   zoning         9-4-222, 9-4-233
             ordinance
             Repealing and
             replacing
24-   4-11-  stormwater     9-9-1—9-9-26
021   2024   management and
             control
             regulations
24-   5-9-   Amending
030   2024   zoning         9-4-22, 9-4-103, 9-4 App. A
             ordinance
             Amending
24-   6-13-  right-of-way   6-2-14
036   2024   encroachment
             regulations
24-   9-12-  Amending
052   2024   zoning         9-4-22, 9-4-120, 9-4-206—9-4-215, 9-4 App. A
             ordinance
24-   11-14- Amending
060   2024   zoning         9-4-22
             ordinance
24-   11-14- Amending weed
061   2024   and vegetation 12-3-1, 12-3-4, 12-3-8
             regulations
             Amending
24-   11-14- garbage and    6-3-1—6-3-11, 6-3-21—6-3-25, 6-3-31—6-3-36, 6-3-41—6-3-43
062   2024   refuse
             regulations
25-   1-9-   Amending
003   2025   uptown outdoor 6-2-60, 6-2-62—6-2-65
             dining permit
             Amending
25-   8-11-  alcoholic      12-1-2
023   2025   beverages
             regulations
                          
 
 
