TOWN OF GRIMESLAND,
NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2020 S-5 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2019-2020:004, passed 2-11-2020,
and a resolution , passed 8-14-2018; and
State legislation current through North Carolina Legislative Service, 2019
Extra Session Laws, Pamphlet #6
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
 
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF GRIMESLAND,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE TOWN OF GRIMESLAND DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Town of Grimesland
are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and
substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the Town and for the proper conduct of its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Act of the Legislature of the State of North Carolina empowers and
authorizes the Town of Grimesland to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile
any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted and to
incorporate such ordinances in to one ordinance book form; and
WHEREAS, Board of Alderman of the Town of Grimesland has authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the Town of
Grimesland of a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance
in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the Town
of Grimesland and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and welfare of the Town of Grimesland that this ordinance take effect.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF ALDERMAN OF THE TOWN OF
GRIMESLAND:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Town of Grimesland as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Town of Grimesland."
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
GRIMESLAND, NORTH CAROLINA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
      Chapter
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      10.   General Code Construction; General Penalty
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      30.   Board of Alderman
      31.   Officials and Employees
      32.   Tax and Finance
      33.   Policies and Procedures
      34.   Town Organization
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      50.   General Provisions
      51.   Water Emergency/Conversation
      52.   Public Water and Wastewater Systems
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      70.   Traffic Regulations
      71.   Parking Regulations
      72.   Traffic Schedules
      73.   Parking Schedules
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      90.   General Provisions
      91.   Streets and Sidewalks
      92.   General Nuisances
      93.   Abandoned, Nuisance and Junked Vehicles
      94.   Noise Regulations
      95.   Animal Control
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      110.   General Licensing
      111.   Cable Television
      112.   Alcoholic Beverages
      113.   Pool/Game Rooms
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      130.   Weapons
      131.   Public Peace and Safety
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      150.   Minimum Housing Standards
      151.   Flood Damage Prevention
      152.   Subdivision Regulations
      153.   Zoning Code
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      I.   Franchises
      II.   Interlocal Agreements
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
   References to North Carolina General Statutes
   References to 1991 Code
   References to Resolutions
   References to Ordinances
   INDEX
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchise, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or of money, authorizing the
purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or accepting easements,
plats or dedication of land to public use, vacating or setting the boundaries
of streets or other public places, nor shall such repeal affect any other
ordinance of a temporary or special nature pertaining to subjects not contained
in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Board of Aldermen of the Town of Grimesland and the Town
Clerk is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Town Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of the Town of Grimesland, and shall take effect at the earliest
date provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Alderman of the Town of Grimesland, on this
the 14th day of August, 2012.
ATTEST:
                        E. Earl Aldridge  /s/               
                        E. Earl Aldridge, Mayor
Barbara M. Chitmon  /s/             
Barbara M. Chitmon, Town Clerk
Danny Harrington  /s/               
Danny Harrington, Attorney
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend code; effect of new ordinances
   
10.18   Section histories; section headings; statutory references
   
10.19   Damaging ordinances prohibited
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Grimesland shall be
designated as the Code of Grimesland, North Carolina, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense.  However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD or TOWN BOARD.  The Town Board of Aldermen of the Town of
Grimesland, North Carolina.
      BUILDING.  Includes the word STRUCTURE.
      CHARTER.  The Charter of the Town of Grimesland, North Carolina.
      CLERK.  The Grimesland Town Clerk.
      CODE,THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.  This  municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME.  The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and the last day; and if the last day is
Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
      COUNTY.  The County of Pitt, North Carolina.
      G.S. or GENERAL STATUTES.  The latest edition of the GENERAL STATUTES of
North Carolina, as amended.
      GENDER.  Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
and neuter.
      GOVERNOR.  The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY.  All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of
persons or officers.
      LOT.  Includes the words “plot”, “parcel”, “site” and “premises”.
      MAY.  The act referred to is permissive.
      MAYOR.  The Mayor of the Town of Grimesland.
      MONTH.  A calendar month.
      NUMBER.  Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural
includes the singular number.
      OATH.  An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may
be substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall
be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT.  An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD.  Whenever certain hours are named in this code,
they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use
in this town.
      OWNER.  Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON.  Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY.  Every species of property except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING.  Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY.  Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY.  Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK.  Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION.  Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE.  The State of North Carolina.
      STREET.  Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto
within the town and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER.  A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a
heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the
chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the
heading. Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT.  When applied to a building or land, shall include
any person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether
alone or with others.
      TENSE.  Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
      TOWN.  The Town of Grimesland, in the County of Pitt, North Carolina.
      USED or OCCUPIED.  Includes the words “intended, designed or arranged to
be used or occupied”.
      WRITTEN.  Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR.  A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
      ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.  Planning and zoning is administered and
enforced by Pitt County Planning and Zoning.
(1991 Code, Title I, § 2)
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see G.S. § 1-593
§ 10.06  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of an act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, that spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this town for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12  REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
   (B)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
      (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the town or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town or
any evidence of the town’s indebtedness;
      (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the town;
      (4)   Any ordinance fixing the salary of any town officer or employee;
      (5)   Any right or franchise granted by the town;
      (6)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, widening, paving and the like, any street or public way in
the town;
      (7)   Any appropriation ordinance;
      (8)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or
limited term;
      (9)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor;
      (10)   Any zoning ordinance or zoning map amendment;
      (11)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
      (12)   Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the town;
      (13)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the town not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
      (14)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
      (15)   Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the
town; and/or
      (16)   Any personnel ordinance.
   (C)   Nor shall any ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part
thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by
this chapter; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Statutory reference:
   Statutes not repealed by General Statutes, see G.S. § 164-7
§ 10.15  EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section or division, or any portion thereof, the repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent ordinances numbered
or omitted are readopted as a new code by the town.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending provisions by specific reference to the section number of this code in
language substantially similar to the following: “Section                of the
Code of Ordinances, Town of Grimesland, North Carolina, is hereby amended as
follows....” The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, Town of Grimesland, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as
follows:....” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, subchapters, chapters or provisions desired to be
repealed must be specifically repealed by section, subchapter or chapter
number, as the case may be.
§ 10.18  SECTION HISTORIES; SECTION HEADINGS; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and any and all amending ordinances, are listed
following the text of the code section.  Example:  (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.  Example:  (G.S. §
160A-11)  (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the prior code of ordinances
of the town, the prior code section number shall be indicated in the history by
“(1991 Code, §       ).”  The history notes following sections and the
references scattered throughout the code are not part of the code, but are
merely for the benefit for the user of the code.
§ 10.19  DAMAGING ORDINANCES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall tear or deface any of the town ordinances.
(1991 Code, Title I, § 8)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of any
section or division of this code of ordinances for which no other penalty is
provided, or failing or neglecting or refusing to comply with same, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to
exceed $50 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, and each day that any of the
provisions of this code of ordinances are violated shall constitute a separate
offense.
(G.S. § 14-4(a))
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARD OF ALDERMEN
      
31.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   TAX AND FINANCE
      
33.   POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
      
34.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
CHAPTER 30:  BOARD OF ALDERMEN
Section
   
30.01   Governing body
   
30.02   Powers and duties
   
30.03   Selection of the Mayor
   
30.04   Duties of the Mayor
   
30.05   Compensation
   
30.06   Committees
   
30.07   Duties of the committees
   
30.08   Regular Board meetings
   
30.09   Special Board meetings
   
30.10   Adjourned Board meetings
   
30.11   Order of business
   
30.12   Rules of procedure
   
30.13   Meetings open to the public
   
30.14   Ordinances
§ 30.01  GOVERNING BODY.
   The governing body of the town shall consist of a Board of Aldermen of five
members, including the Mayor, elected according to the uniform municipal
election laws of the state. The governing body shall be charged with the
general government and administration of the affairs of the town.
(1991 Code, Title II, § 1)
§ 30.02  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the governing body shall be as set out in the
general statutes of the state, the Town Charter and the ordinances of the town.
(1991 Code, Title II, § 2)
§ 30.03  SELECTION OF THE MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall be elected by the Board from among its membership.
(1991 Code, Title II, § 3)
§ 30.04  DUTIES OF THE MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the town, and as such,
shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Keep informed as to the town’s business;
   (B)   Preside over the meetings of the Town Board;
   (C)   Sign all contracts, ordinances, resolutions, franchises and all other
documents as authorized by the Board;
   (D)   Appoint all committees and outline their duties, under the general
direction of the Board;
   (E)   Make recommendations to the Board concerning the affairs of the town;
   (F)   Represent the town at ceremonies and other official occasions; and
   (G)   Perform other duties as authorized by the general statutes, the Town
Charter and this code.
(1991 Code, Title II, § 4)
§ 30.05  COMPENSATION.
   The compensation of the Mayor and Board members shall be as provided in the
annual budget ordinance, and as the same may be amended from time to time.
(1991 Code, Title II, § 5)
§ 30.06  COMMITTEES.
   Committees shall, unless otherwise ordered, be appointed by the Mayor. All
reports of committees may be in writing, and committee members may receive
compensation for extra and special service as the Board may designate.
(1991 Code, Title II, § 6)
§ 30.07  DUTIES OF THE COMMITTEES.
   Each committee shall be held responsible for its respective department or
the special object for which it is appointed, and shall make recommendations to
the Mayor and the Board as it deems advisable.
(1991 Code, Title II, § 7)
§ 30.08  REGULAR BOARD MEETINGS.
   (A)   The regular meetings of the Board shall be held on the second Tuesday
of each month at 6:30 p.m. at the Town Hall, unless otherwise designated by the
Board.
   (B)   Every member of the Board shall attend all meetings of the Board,
unless excused.
(1991 Code, Title II, § 8)
§ 30.09  SPECIAL BOARD MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the Board may be held according to the procedures set
out in the applicable general statutes.
(1991 Code, Title II, § 9)
§ 30.10  ADJOURNED BOARD MEETINGS.
   Any meeting of the Board may be continued or adjourned from day to day, or
for more than one day, but no adjournment shall be for a longer period than
until the next regular meeting thereafter.
(1991 Code, Title II, § 10)
§ 30.11  ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   At the hour appointed for the meeting of the Board, the Mayor shall
take the Chair and direct a call of the members by the Clerk, who shall note
the absentees.
      (1)   If a quorum is not present, the Mayor shall send for the absentees
and, upon the appearance of a quorum, shall call to order and proceed with the
order of business.
      (2)   If a quorum fails to attend, the meeting shall stand adjourned to a
time agreed on by a majority of the members present.
      (3)   The Mayor may, when present, substitute any member of the Board to
perform the duties of the Chair, but substitution shall not extend beyond
adjournment, except by special consent of the Board.
   (B)   Unless the Board agrees in advance otherwise, the business of the
Board shall be taken up for consideration and disposition at regular meetings
in the following order:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Reading or disposition of. minutes of the previous meeting;
      (3)   Report of Mayor;
      (4)   Old business;
      (5)   New business;
      (6)   Reports of standing committees;
      (7)   Reports of special committees;
      (8)   Announcements; and
      (9)   Adjournment.
   (C)   If the Board directs any matter to be the special business of a future
meeting, the matter shall have precedence over all other business at that
meeting.
(1991 Code, Title II, § 11)
§ 30.12  RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Agenda.
      (1)   All reports, communications, ordinances, resolutions, contract
documents or other matters to be submitted to the Board should be delivered or
submitted to the Clerk at least four days prior to its meeting.
      (2)   The Clerk shall then arrange a list of these matters according to
the order of business and furnish each member of the Board and the Town
Attorney with a copy prior to the Board meeting and as far in advance of the
meeting as time for preparation will permit.
   (B)   Rules of debate and decorum.
      (1)   Manner of speaking. Every member of the Town Board desiring to
speak shall address the Chair and upon recognition by the Mayor shall confine
himself or herself to the question under debate, avoiding all personalities and
indecorous language.
      (2)   Interrupting the speaker. A member, once recognized, shall not be
interrupted when speaking, unless it is to call him or her to order or as
otherwise provided under applicable rules of parliamentary procedure. If a
member, while speaking, is called to order, he or she shall cease speaking
until the question of order is determined and, if in order, he or she shall be
permitted to proceed.
      (3)   Addressing the Board. Any person desiring to address the Board
shall first secure the permission of the Mayor. Any interested parties or their
authorized representatives may address the Board on matters listed on the
agenda of the Board. After a motion is before the Board, no person shall
address the Board without first securing the permission of the Board to do so.
      (4)   Manner of addressing Board; time limit. Every person addressing the
Board shall give his or her name and address for the records, and unless
special time is granted by the Board, shall limit his or her remarks to three
minutes.
         (a)   All remarks shall be addressed to the Board as a body and not to
any member thereof.
         (b)   No person, other than Board members and the person having the
floor, shall be permitted to enter into any discussion either directly or
through a member of the Board.
         (c)   No question shall be asked a member except through the Mayor.
      (5)   Request to have statement abstracted. A member may request from the
Mayor the privilege of having an abstract of his or her statement on any
subject under consideration by the Board entered in the minutes.
      (6)   Request to record synopsis of discussion in the minutes. The Clerk
may be directed by the Mayor, with the consent of the Board, to enter in the
minutes a synopsis of the discussion on any question coming before the Board.
      (7)   Voting, individual ballots. All elections by the Board shall be
made by individual ballot if required by any member present.
      (8)   Questions of order. All questions of order shall be decided by the
Mayor without debate, subject to an appeal to the Board.
      (9)   Robert’s Rules of Order. When any point of procedure shall arise,
the latest revised edition of Robert’s Rules of Order shall determine the
question of procedure.
(1991 Code, Title II, § 12)
§ 30.13  MEETINGS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
   Except as provided in the Open Meetings Statute of the state, all meetings
of the Board shall be open to the public.
(1991 Code, Title II, § 13)
§ 30.14  ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Procedure, form, publication. Every ordinance amending or repealing
any ordinance and every new ordinance shall be proposed in writing and shall be
approved as to form by the town attorney. Ordinances shall have ordinance
numbers and section captions.
   (B)   Ordinances confined to one subject. All ordinances shall be confined
to one subject, except appropriation ordinances, which shall be confined to the
subject of appropriations only.
   (C)   Effective date. All ordinances shall be effective after the
ratification thereof, except ordinances specifying some other effective date or
ordinances required by state law to be effective only after having met specific
date requirements.
   (D)   Official copy. A true copy of an ordinance, which has been duly
enacted by the Board, signed by the Mayor, and attested to by the Clerk, shall
be known as an official copy of any ordinance for the town. All ordinances or a
true copy thereof, shall be appropriately codified into this code.
   (E)   Ordinance book. The Clerk shall file a true copy of each ordinance,
until it is codified in this code, in an ordinance book separate and apart from
the Board’s minute book. The ordinance book shall be appropriately indexed and
maintained for public inspection in the office of the Clerk.
   (F)   Ordinances adding to code. Any ordinance which is proposed to add to
the code a new chapter, subchapter, section or division shall indicate, with
reference to the arrangement of this code, the proper number of the chapter,
subchapter, section or division.
   (G)   Improper amending void. It shall be unlawful for members of the Board
to annul, abridge, modify or in any way change any ordinance of the Board
except at a regular or special meeting of the Board.
(1991 Code, Title II, § 14)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 31:  OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Town employees
   
31.02   Town Clerk
   
31.03   Tax Collector
   
31.04   Town Attorney
   
31.05   Consolidation of offices
   
31.06   Other officers and employees
   
31.07   Employees bonding
   
31.08   Town departments
   
31.09   Town office hours
Ethics Policy for Officials
   
31.20   Policy purpose
   
31.21   Policy statement
   
31.22   Definitions
   
31.23   Standards of conduct
   
31.24   Disclosure of interest in official action
   
31.25   General disclosure statement
   
31.26   Investigations; filing of complaints
   
31.27   Hearings on violations; sanctions; rights of accused at hearings
   
31.28   Advisory opinions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01  TOWN EMPLOYEES.
   The Board shall have the authority to generally organize and supervise the
employees of the town, including the power to:
   (A)   Prescribe rules and regulations as it shall deem necessary or
expedient for the conduct of the administrative employees subject to its
authority and shall have the power to revoke, suspend or amend any rule or
regulation;
   (B)   Either by itself or by any officer or person designated for the
purpose by it, investigate and examine or inquire into the affairs or operation
of any department, division or employee; and shall have the power to employ
investigations, examinations or inquires;
   (C)   Set aside any action taken by a town administrative official who may
supersede him or her in the functions of his or her office;
   (D)   Direct any official, department, division or employee to perform the
work for any other official, department, division or employee;
   (E)   Designate committees as it shall find necessary for the proper
consideration of administrative problems. The committees shall meet at the
request of the Board and shall make recommendations on matters referred to them
as it shall find necessary for the best interest of the town; and
   (F)   Require any employee of the town to appear before and report to the
Board at any meeting.
(1991 Code, Title III, § 1)
§ 31.02  TOWN CLERK.
   The Town Clerk shall be appointed by the Board and shall have the following
duties.
   (A)   The Clerk shall attend all meetings of the Board, and shall record all
of its proceedings in the minute book.
   (B)   It shall be the Clerk’s duty to keep true, accurate and just books of
accounts of the dealings and transactions of the town, which books shall show
at all times the true condition of the town, its resources, liabilities and the
disposition and use of the monies coming under the control of the town.
   (C)   The Clerk shall disburse funds for the various purposes of the town
only when the disbursement is authorized by the Board.
   (D)   The Clerk shall keep or cause to be kept in a safe place all monies,
records and accounts.
   (E)   The Clerk shall perform other duties as the Board may from time to
time require.
(1991 Code, Title III, § 2)
§ 31.03  TAX COLLECTOR.
   (A)   The Board shall contract with the County Tax Collector for the
collection of municipal taxes according to G.S. § 105-349.
   (B)   The County Tax Collector shall supply the Mayor and Board with any
information as they may require of him or her relative to the performance of
his or her duties.
   (C)   The County Tax Collector shall make periodic reports to the Board
listing therein all funds collected by him or her.
   (D)   The County Tax Collector shall perform other duties required by law,
or as the Board may direct.
(1991 Code, Title III, § 3)
§ 31.04  TOWN ATTORNEY.
   The Board shall appoint a town attorney, whose duties shall be to:
   (A)   Prosecute or defend any and all suits or actions at law or equity to
which the town may be a party, or in which it may be interested, or which may
be brought against, or by, any officer of the town, or in the capacity of the
person as an officer of the town;
   (B)   See to the full enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered or
entered in favor of the town;
   (C)   See to the completion of all special assessment proceedings and
condemnation proceedings;
   (D)   Draft or review any contract, lease or other document or instrument to
which the town may be a party, and approve all ordinances and resolutions of
the Board as to form;
   (E)   At the request of the Board, draft ordinances covering any subjects
within the power of the town;
   (F)   Attend meetings of the Board upon request; and
   (G)   Perform any other duties required of him or her by G.S. § 160A-173 and
other laws and ordinances.
(1991 Code, Title III, § 4)
§ 31.05  CONSOLIDATION OF OFFICES.
   Except as otherwise provided by law, the Board may in its discretion
consolidate any two or more offices and assign the duties of both offices to
one or more persons.
(1991 Code, Title III, § 5)
§ 31.06  OTHER OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Other officers and employees that are deemed necessary shall be
appointed by the Board.
   (B)   All officers and employees shall serve at the pleasure of the Board
and receive compensation as from time to time may be prescribed by the Board.
(1991 Code, Title III, § 6)
§ 31.07  EMPLOYEES BONDING.
   The Town Clerk and other officers or employees required by the Board shall
post bonds in amounts specified by the Board. All bond premiums shall be paid
from town funds.
(1991 Code, Title III, § 7)
§ 31.08  TOWN DEPARTMENTS.
   The administrative organization of the town shall be divided into the
following departments:
   (A)   Streets;
   (B)   Ditches;
   (C)   Garbage; and
   (D)   Water and sewer.
(1991 Code, Title III, § 8)
§ 31.09  TOWN OFFICE HOURS.
   Town office hours will be set by the Board and posted at Town Hall. The
office will be closed on Saturday, Sunday and on all legal holidays.
(1991 Code, Title III, § 9)
ETHICS POLICY FOR OFFICIALS
§ 31.20  POLICY PURPOSE.
   (A)   The proper operation of democratic government requires that:
      (1)   Public officials be independent, impartial and responsible to the
people;
      (2)   Governmental decisions and policy be made in proper channels of the
governmental structure;
      (3)   Public office not be used for personal gain; and
      (4)   The public has confidence in the integrity of its government.
   (B)   In recognition of these goals, an ethics policy for town officials is
hereby adopted. The purpose of this policy is to establish guidelines for
ethical standards of conduct for all the officials by setting forth those acts
or actions that are incompatible with the best interests of the town.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2010)
§ 31.21  POLICY STATEMENT.
   Town officials shall:
   (A)   Obey all local, state and federal laws;
   (B)   Uphold the integrity and independence of his or her office or
position; yet be responsive to the needs of those he or she represents in an
advocacy capacity;
   (C)   Avoid impropriety in the exercise of the Board members’ official
duties; demonstrate the highest standards of personal integrity, truthfulness
and honesty in all their public activities;
   (D)   Faithfully perform the duties of the office;
   (E)   Conduct the affairs of the town in an open and public manner,
including complying with all applicable laws governing open meetings and public
records;
   (F)   Participate in establishing, maintaining and enforcing the standards
of conduct and disclosure as set forth in this policy; and
   (G)   Per G.S. § 160A-87, all town officials shall provide record of “ethics
education” to be filed with the Town Clerk.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2010)
§ 31.22  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS ENTITY.  Any business, proprietorship, firm, partnership and person
in a representative or fiduciary capacity, association, venture, trust or
corporation, which is organized for financial gain or for profit.
   IMMEDIATE HOUSEHOLD.  The town official, spouses and all dependents of the
town official.
   INTEREST.  Direct or indirect financial, fiscal, economic or material
benefit accruing to a town official as a result of a contract or transaction
which is or may be the subject of an official act or action by or with the
town. For the purpose of this policy, a town official shall be deemed to have
an INTEREST in the affairs of:
      (1)   Any person in his or her immediate household, as the term is
defined in this section;
      (2)   Any business entity in which the town official is an officer,
manager or director;
      (3)   Any business entity in which in excess of 5% of the stock of, or
legal or beneficial ownership of, is controlled or owned directly or indirectly
by the town official; or
      (4)   Any nonprofit organization on which the town official currently
serves as an officer, manager, director or board member.
   OFFICIAL ACT OR ACTION.  Any legislative, administrative, appointive or
discretionary act of any town official.
   TOWN OFFICIAL.  The Mayor, members of the Town Board of Aldermen, town
appointees to advisory boards.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2010)
§ 31.23  STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   Scope. All town officials shall be subject to and shall abide by the
standards of conduct in this section.
   (B)   Interest in contract or agreement. No town official shall have or
thereafter acquire an interest in any contract or agreement with the town.
   (C)   Use of official position.
      (1)   No town official shall use his or her official position or the
town’s facilities or resources for private gain, nor shall he or she appear
before or represent any private person, group or interest before any
department, agency, commission or board of the town except in matters of purely
civic or public concern.
      (2)   Members of the Town Board shall refrain from using their position
to unduly influence the deliberations or outcomes of advisory board
proceedings.
      (3)   Town officials shall represent the official policies or positions
of the appropriate board to the best of their ability when designated as
delegates for this purpose.
      (4)   When presenting their individual opinions and positions, officials
shall explicitly state they do not represent their body or the town, and shall
avoid any inference thereof.
      (5)   This division (C) is not intended to prohibit a town official from
speaking before neighborhood groups and other nonprofit organizations.
   (D)   Disclosure of confidential information. No town official shall use or
disclose confidential information gained in the course of or by reason of his
or her official position for purposes of advancing:
      (1)   His or her financial or personal interest;
      (2)   A business entity or nonprofit organization of which he or she is
an owner in part or in whole, an officer, manager or a director; or
      (3)   The financial or personal interest of a member of his or her
immediate household or that of any other person.
   (E)   Incompatible service. No town official shall engage in or accept
private employment or render service for private interest, when the employment
or service is incompatible with the proper discharge of his or her official
duties or would tend to impair his or her independence of judgment or action in
the performance of his or her official duties, unless otherwise permitted by
law and unless disclosure is made as provided in this policy.
   (F)   Gifts.
      (1)   No town official shall directly or indirectly solicit any gift or
accept or receive any gift having a value of $50 or more, whether in the form
of money, services, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing or promise,
or any other form, under circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred
that the gift was intended to influence him or her, or could reasonably be
expected to influence him or her, in the performance of his or her official
duties, or was intended as a reward for any official action on his or her part.
      (2)   Legitimate political contributions shall not be considered as gifts
under this division (F).
   (G)   Special treatment. No town official shall grant any special
consideration, treatment or advantage to any citizen beyond that which is
available to every other citizen.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2010)
§ 31.24  DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST IN OFFICIAL ACTION.
   All town officials who have interest in any official act or action before
the Board of Aldermen shall publicly disclose on the record of the Board of
Aldermen the nature and extent of the interest and shall withdraw from any
consideration of the matter if excused by the Board of Aldermen.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2010)
§ 31.25  GENERAL DISCLOSURE STATEMENT.
   (A)   Every town official shall file with the Town Clerk, on January 15 of
each year, a statement containing the following information:
      (1)   The identity, by name and address, of any business entity or
nonprofit organization of which he or she or any member of his or her immediate
household is an officer, manager, director or Board member, or in which in
excess of 5% of the stock of, or legal or beneficial ownership of, is
controlled or owned directly or indirectly by the person. Additionally, the
town official and spouse shall give the names of their employers or, if self-
employed, shall state the nature of their work; and
      (2)   The identity, by location and address, of all real property located
in the town or area of consideration for annexation by the town, owned or
leased by the town official or any member of his or her immediate household,
including an option to purchase or option to lease for ten years or more, other
than his or her personal residence.
   (B)   The statements required by this section shall be filed on a form
prescribed by the Town Clerk and are public records available for inspection
and copying by any person during normal business hours. The Town Clerk is
authorized to establish and charge reasonable fees for the copying of
statements.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2010)
§ 31.26  INVESTIGATIONS; FILING OF COMPLAINTS.
   The Town Board of Aldermen, by majority vote, may direct the town attorney
to investigate any apparent violation of this policy, as it applies to any town
official and to report the findings of the investigation to the Town Board of
Aldermen. Any person who believes that a violation of this policy has occurred
may file a complaint in writing with the Town Board of Aldermen when a town
official is the subject of the complaint.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2010)
§ 31.27  HEARINGS ON VIOLATIONS; SANCTIONS; RIGHTS OF ACCUSED AT HEARINGS.
   (A)   If the Town Board of Aldermen, after the receipt of investigation
findings, has cause to believe a violation of this policy has occurred, it
shall schedule a hearing on the matter. The town official who is charged with
the violation shall have the right to present evidence, cross-examine
witnesses, including the complainant and to be represented by counsel at the
hearing.
   (B)   If, after the hearing and a review of all the evidence, the Town Board
of Aldermen finds that a violation of this policy has occurred, it shall take,
by majority vote, whatever lawful disciplinary action deemed appropriate,
including, but not limited to, reprimand, suspension, demotion, termination of
service or adoption of a resolution of censure which shall be placed as a
matter of record in the minutes of an official Board of Aldermen meeting.
   (C)   The town official accused of a violation of this policy shall not vote
in these proceedings. If, after hearing proceedings, the Board of Aldermen, by
majority vote, determines that no violation has occurred, the Board of Aldermen
agrees to reimburse the accused town official for legal expenses incurred for
the purpose of the hearing.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2010)
§ 31.28  ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A)   The town does not attempt to deny town officials the opportunity to
acquire, retain or pursue private interests, economic or otherwise. However,
these interests may potentially conflict with their responsibility in public
office.
   (B)   When any town official has a doubt as to the applicability of any
section of this policy to a particular situation, or as to the definition of
terms used in this policy, he or she may apply to the town attorney for an
advisory opinion.
   (C)   The town official shall have the opportunity to present his or her
interpretation of the facts at issue and of the applicability of sections of
this policy before the advisory opinion is made.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2010)
CHAPTER 32:  TAX AND FINANCE
Section
   
32.01   Disbursement of funds
   
32.02   Purchasing agent
   
32.03   Purchasing
   
32.04   Draft signatures
   
32.05   Setting annual tax rate
§ 32.01  DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   In accordance with the Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act,
no bill or claim against the town may be paid unless it has been approved by
the officer or employee responsible for the function or agency to which the
expense is charged. No check or draft of the town shall be valid unless it
bears on its face the certificate of the Clerk as follows: “This disbursement
has been approved as required by the Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control
Act.”
   (B)   No contract, agreement or purchase order shall be valid unless it
bears the finance officer’s certificate as follows: “This instrument has been
pre-audited in the manner required by the Local Government Budget and Fiscal
Control Act.”
(1991 Code, Title IV, § 1)
§ 32.02  PURCHASING AGENT.
   The Town Clerk shall serve as purchasing agent, and as such, shall:
   (A)   Make or approve all purchases of material, equipment and supplies
authorized by the Board;
   (B)   Establish sets of standards and specifications to control purchases by
the town;
   (C)   Prepare and publish specifications and notices to bidders;
   (D)   Advise the Board as to anticipated needs for purchases and make
purchases in advance of needs as authorized by the Board;
   (E)   Store material, equipment and supplies in advance of actual need;
   (F)   Keep records of all purchases made by her and of the destination or
ultimate use of the material, equipment and supplies; and
   (G)   Cause to be kept an inventory of all municipal property in his or her
custody and of all municipal property in the custody of the other officers and
employees of the town.
(1991 Code, Title IV, § 2)
§ 32.03  PURCHASING.
   (A)   Before any order is given for items to be paid by the town or any
purchase made by any town employee, an authorization must first be obtained
from the Town Clerk.
   (B)   Any town employee purchasing goods without an authorization from the
Clerk will be held responsible for the cost of the goods.
(1991 Code, Title IV, § 3)
§ 32.04  DRAFT SIGNATURES.
   All checks and drafts issued by the town, regardless of amount, must be
signed by the Clerk and countersigned by the Mayor or a Mayor Pro Tempore.
(1991 Code, Title IV, § 4)
§ 32.05  SETTING ANNUAL TAX RATE.
   At the regular June meeting of the Board, the annual tax rate shall be
fixed.
(1991 Code, Title VIII, § 1)
CHAPTER 33:  POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Records retention and disposition schedule
Smoking in Town Buildings
   
33.15   Definitions
   
33.16   Smoking prohibited in municipal buildings and transportation vehicles
   
33.17   Signage
   
33.18   Public education and cessation
   
33.19   Smoking permitted outside buildings
   
33.20   Effective date
 
   
33.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01  RECORDS RETENTION AND DISPOSITION SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The records retention and disposition schedule and retention governing
the records series listed herein are hereby approved. In accordance with the
provisions of G.S. Chapters 121 and 132, it is agreed that the records do not
and will not have further use or value for official business, research or
reference purposes after the respective retention periods specified herein and
are authorized to be destroyed or otherwise disposed of by the agency or
official having custody of them without further reference to or approval of
either party to this agreement.
   (B)   It is further agreed that these records may not be destroyed prior to
the time periods stated; however, for sufficient reason they may be retained
for longer periods. This schedule is to remain in effect from the date of
approval until it is reviewed and updated.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2010)
SMOKING IN TOWN BUILDINGS
§ 33.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROUNDS.  The area located within 50 linear feet of a building wherein a
local health department or a local department of social services is housed.
   SMOKER.  A person who is smoking.
   SMOKING.  The use or possession of a lighted cigarette, lighted cigar,
lighted pipe or any other lighted tobacco product.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2009)
§ 33.16  SMOKING PROHIBITED IN MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS AND TRANSPORTATION VEHICLES.
   Smoking is prohibited in all of the following:
   (A)   Buildings that are owned by the town;
   (B)   Buildings that are leased by the town as lessor;
   (C)   Buildings or areas of buildings that are leased by the town as lessee
and occupied by the county/city/town; and
   (D)   Public transportation vehicles owned or leased by county/city/town and
used by the public.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2009)  Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.17  SIGNAGE.
   (A)   Persons in charge of buildings identified in §
33.16 shall post signs at all entrances and exits explaining the prohibition of
smoking. Signs may be posted in other areas of the buildings as well. For
example, signs may be posted in other areas in the building where smoking is
likely, such as bathrooms and dining areas.
   (B)   Persons in charge of vehicles identified in §
33.16 shall post signs in the vehicles explaining the prohibition. The signs
must be displayed in areas where passengers will be able to see the signs but
the placement of the signs must not interfere with the safe operation of the
vehicle.
   (C)   The signs required by divisions (A) and (B) above must use clear and
unambiguous language to convey the prohibition.
      (1)   The signs may include language such as “Smoke Free Buildings”,
“Smoking Prohibited in this Building”, “Smoking Not Permitted in this Building”
or “Smoking Not Permitted in this Vehicle”.
      (2)   If a sign includes the international “No Smoking” symbol (which
consists of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a red
circle with a red bar across it), it must also include written text explaining
the prohibition.
   (D)   Persons in charge of buildings and vehicles identified in §
33.16 must determine whether signs should be posted in languages other than
English.
   (E)   Persons in charge of buildings or grounds where tobacco use is
prohibited by this subchapter shall remove all publicly available ashtrays from
the buildings and grounds.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2009)
§ 33.18  PUBLIC EDUCATION AND CESSATION.
   (A)   The town shall engage in a continuing program to explain and clarify
the purposes and requirements of this subchapter to citizens affected by it,
and to guide owners, operators and managers in their compliance with it. The
program may include publication of a brochure for affected businesses and
individuals explaining the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The town provides support to employees who want to quit the use of
tobacco products. These employees are also encouraged to talk to their health
care provider about quitting; ask about appropriate pharmacotherapy available
through the town health insurance plan or employee’s insurer and use the free
quitting support services of the State Tobacco Use Quitline at 1-800-QUIT-NOW,
available from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 midnight, seven days per week.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2009)
§ 33.19  SMOKING PERMITTED OUTSIDE BUILDINGS.
   Smoking is permitted outside the buildings identified in §
33.16, provided that the person smoking does not stand adjacent to a public
entrance or air intake vent.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2009)
§ 33.20  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be effective March 1, 2009.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2009)
§ 33.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Employees who violate §§
33.15 through
33.20 may be subject to sanctions consistent with county/city human resources
policies.
      (2)   The person in charge of a building or vehicle identified in §
33.16, or his or her designee who sees a smoker (other than an employee) who is
smoking in violation of §§
33.15 through
33.20 must ask the smoker to stop smoking.
         (a)   If, after having been asked to stop smoking, the smoker
continues to smoke, he or she will be first giving a formal warning.
         (b)   Future violations are subject to graduated civil penalties in
amounts of $25 for first violation, $50 for second violation and $100 for third
and subsequent violations, to be recovered by the county/city/town.
         (c)   Violators shall be issued a written citation which must be paid
to the county/city/town within ten days.
         (d)   Violation of §§
33.15 through
33.20 shall not constitute a misdemeanor or an infraction punishable under G.S.
§ 14-4.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2009)
CHAPTER 34:  TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Board
   
34.01   Establishment
   
34.02   Composition; meetings; procedure and records
PLANNING BOARD
§ 34.01  ESTABLISHMENT.
   The town does hereby establish the Town Planning Board to:
   (A)   Make studies of the area within its jurisdiction and surrounding
areas;
   (B)   Determine objectives to be sought in the development of the study
area;
   (C)   Prepare and adopt plans for achieving these objectives;
   (D)   Develop and recommend policies, ordinances, administrative procedures
and other means for carrying out plans in a coordinated and efficient manner;
   (E)   Advise the Board concerning the use and amendment of means for
carrying out plans;
   (F)   Exercise any functions in the administration and enforcement of
various means for carrying out plans that the Board may direct;
   (G)   Perform any other related duties that the Board may direct; and
   (H)   Perform other duties as may be prescribed by G.S. § 160A-363.
(Ord. passed 6-8-1999)
§ 34.02  COMPOSITION; MEETINGS; PROCEDURE AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The Town Planning Board shall be composed of five members.
   (B)   Three of the members shall reside in the town and be appointed by the
Board of Aldermen, and two of the members shall reside in the extraterritorial
jurisdiction area and be appointed by the County Board of Commissioners;
   (C)   Initially, one member shall serve a one-year term, two members shall
serve two-year terms and two members shall serve three-year terms. Thereafter,
all terms shall be for three years.
   (D)   The Town Planning Board shall elect its own officers, adopt rules of
procedure, establish meeting dates and maintain written records of all meetings
and proceedings.
(Ord. passed 6-8-1999)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   WATER SHORTAGE RESPONSE PLAN
      
52.   PUBLIC WATER AND WASTEWATER SYSTEMS
CHAPTER 50:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Swimming pools; sewer bill
   
50.02   Sewer taps; labor/materials
   
50.03   Water and sewer meter deposits
   
50.04   Water fees; disconnection
   
50.05   System development fees
   
50.06   Fee schedule for water charges
   
50.07   Disconnection for late payment
§ 50.01  SWIMMING POOLS; SEWER BILL.
   (A)   In order to avoid paying for sewer when filling up a swimming pool,
the town will allow a once-a-year swimming pool fill-up. Adjustment process: an
average of three prior month's bills to determine the gallons used, gallons
used will be multiplied by price per gallons for each water and sewer. The
water will be billed as used; however, the allowance will be only for the
sewer.
   (B)   Should there be a substantial water leak at service location, the town
will consider a request to make a one-time adjustment for the water and sewer
charges. Adjustment process: an average of three prior month's bills to
determine the gallons used, gallons used will be multiplied by price per gallon
for each water and sewer.
   (C)   All adjustments must be approved by the Public Works Director on a
case-by-case basis.
(Res. passed 8-10-2004; Am. Res. 2017-18:002, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 50.02  SEWER TAPS; LABOR/MATERIALS.
   Going forward, any new sewer tap requested by a town resident or a resident
in the extraterritorial jurisdiction and where sewer lines are accessible must
incur the full cost of labor and materials in an amount set by the Board of
Aldermen from time to time.
(Res. passed 10-12-2004)
§ 50.03  WATER AND SEWER METER DEPOSITS.
   Going forward, the water and sewer meter deposits will be in an amount set
by the Board of Aldermen from time to time for in-town and for out-of-town
residents whether they have both water and sewer or just water or just sewer.
(Res. passed 10-12-2004)
§ 50.04  WATER FEES; DISCONNECTION.
   (A)   All water fees are due upon receipt.
   (B)   If the fee is not received by the fifteenth day, it will be subject to
a penalty in an amount as set by the Board from time to time, and if not
received by the twentieth day, the service will be disconnected in accordance
with the policies set forth in §
50.07.
   (C)   Thereafter, service will not be reconnected until all past due amounts
are paid, plus a reconnection fee in an amount set by the Board from time to
time.
   (D)   These fees may be changed hereafter by the Town Board.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2006)
§ 50.05  SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT FEES.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. §§ 160A-311 et seq., the following utility impact
fees are hereby established for the purpose of providing funds for capital
improvements necessary to maintain water and sewer services.
   (B)   Fees shall be payable to the town by landowner and/or developer at/or
before the time of submission of the preliminary plat for the subject
development or at the time of application for service.
      (1)   Water: The fees shall be in an amount as set by the Board from time
to time.
      (2)   Sewer: The fees shall be in an amount as set by the Board from time
to time.
(Res. passed 12-12-2006; Am. Res. 2017-18:004, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 50.06  FEE SCHEDULE FOR WATER CHARGES.
   Water charges shall be in an amount set by the Board of Aldermen from time
to time.
§ 50.07  DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills.  The town's form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due, payable and disconnected on or before the
dates set forth on the bill; and
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid by the
twentieth, service will be discontinued for nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town
official in charge of utility billing.  This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer's service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer's complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered.  In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
(Am. Res. 2018-18:005, passed 3-13-2018)
CHAPTER 51:  WATER SHORTAGE RESPONSE PLAN
Section
   
51.01   Purpose
   
51.02   Authorization
   
51.03   Notification
   
51.04   Levels of response
   
51.05   Triggers
   
51.06   Enforcement
   
51.07   Public comment
   
51.08   Variance protocols
   
51.09   Effectiveness
   
51.10   Revision
§ 51.01  PURPOSE.
   The procedures herein are written to reduce potable water demand and
supplement existing drinking water supplies whenever existing water supply
sources are inadequate to meet current demands for potable water.
(Res. passed 8-14-2018)
§ 51.02  AUTHORIZATION.
   The Grimesland Town Mayor shall enact the following water shortage response
provisions whenever the trigger conditions outlined in §
51.05 are met. In his or her absence, the Public Works Director will assume
this role.
   (A)   Grimesland Town Mayor
      Phone: (252) 752-6337
      E-mail: grimeslandtown@embarqmail.com
   (B)   Town of Grimesland Public Works Director
      Phone: (252) 752-6337
      E-mail: grimeslandtown@embarqmail.com
(Res. passed 8-14-2018)
§ 51.03  NOTIFICATION.
   The following notification methods will be used to inform water system
employees and customers of a water shortage declaration: employee e-mail
announcements, notices at municipal buildings, notices in water bills. Required
water shortage response measures will be communicated through The Washington
Daily News, PSA announcements on local radio and cable stations. Declaration of
emergency water restrictions or water rationing will be communicated to all
customers by telephone through use of reverse 911.
(Res. passed 8-14-2018)
§ 51.04  LEVELS OF RESPONSE.
   Five levels of water shortage response are outlined in the table below. The
five levels of water shortage response are: voluntary reductions, mandatory
reductions I and II, emergency reductions and water rationing. A detailed
description of each response level and corresponding water reduction measures
follow below.
 
Stage Response                Description
                              Water users are encouraged to reduce their water
1     Voluntary Reductions    use and improve water use efficiency; however, no
                              penalties apply for noncompliance. Water supply
                              conditions indicate a potential for shortage.
                              Water users must abide required water use
                              reduction and efficiency measures; penalties
2     Mandatory Reductions I  apply for noncompliance. Water supply conditions
                              are significantly lower than the seasonal norm
                              and water shortage conditions are expected to
                              persist.
3     Mandatory Reductions II Same as in Stage 2.
                              Water supply conditions are substantially
4     Emergency Reductions    diminished and pose an imminent threat to human
                              health or environmental integrity.
                              Water supply conditions are substantially
5     Water Rationing         diminished and remaining supplies must be
                              allocated to preserve human health and
                              environmental integrity.
 
   (A)   In Stage 1, Voluntary Reductions, all water users will be asked to
reduce their normal water use by 5%. Customer education and outreach programs
will encourage water conservation and efficiency measures including: irrigating
landscapes a maximum of one inch per week; preventing water waste, runoff and
watering impervious surfaces; watering plants deeply to encourage root growth;
washing only full loads in clothes and dishwashers; using spring-loaded nozzles
on garden hoses; and identifying and repairing all water leaks.
   (B)   In Stage 2, Mandatory Reductions I, all customers are expected to
reduce their water use by 10% in comparison to their previous month's water
bill. In addition to continuing to encourage all voluntary reduction actions,
the following restrictions apply: irrigation is limited to a half inch per week
between 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.; outdoor use of drinking water for washing
impervious surfaces is prohibited; and all testing and training purposes
requiring drinking water (e.g. fire protection) will be limited.
   (C)   In Stage 3, Mandatory Reductions II, customers must continue actions
from all previous stages and further reduce water use by 20% compared to their
previous month's water bill. All non-essential uses of drinking water are
banned and garden and landscape irrigation must be reduced to the minimum
amount necessary for survival. Additionally, in Stage 3, a drought surcharge of
1.5 times the normal water rate applies.
   (D)   In Stage 4, Emergency Reductions, customers must continue all actions
from previous stages and further reduce their water use by 25% compared to
their previous month's water bill. A ban on all use of drinking water except to
protect public health and safety is implemented and drought surcharges increase
to two times the normal water rate.
   (E)   The goal of Stage 5, Water Rationing, is to provide drinking water to
protect public health (e.g. residences, residential health care facilities and
correctional facilities). In Stage 5, all customers are only permitted to use
water at the minimum required for public health protection. Firefighting is the
only allowable outdoor water use and pickup locations for distributing potable
water will be announced according to Grimesland's Emergency Response Plan.
Drought surcharges increase to 5 times the normal water rate.
(Res. passed 8-14-2018)
§ 51.05  TRIGGERS.
   (A)   Grimesland's water source is groundwater. The following measurements
of well pumping times and well levels in relationship to pump intake levels
trigger entry into corresponding water restriction stages.
 
Stage Well Operating Conditions
      Pumping Time >10 hrs
1     20% reduction in seasonal normal distance from static water level and
      pump intake
      20% increase pumping time for same output
      Pumping Time >12 hrs
2     40% reduction in distance from static water level and pump intake
      40% increase pumping time for same output
      Pumping Time >14 hrs
3     60% reduction in distance from static water level and pump intake
      60% increase pumping time for same output
4     Pumping Time >20 hrs
      80% reduction in distance from static water level and pump intake
5     Water level at pump intake elevation
 
   (B)   Return to normal. When water shortage conditions have abated and the
situation is returning to normal, water conservation measures employed during
each phase should be decreased in reverse order of implementation. Permanent
measures directed toward long-term monitoring and conservation should be
implemented or continued so that the community will be in a better position to
prevent shortages and respond to recurring water shortage conditions.
(Res. passed 8-14-2018)
§ 51.06  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The provisions of the water shortage response plan will be enforced by
Town of Grimesland Public Works department and police personnel. Violators may
be reported to the Town's dedicated water conservation hotline. Citations are
assessed according to the following schedule depending on the number of prior
violations and current level of water shortage.
 
Water Shortage Level  First Violation Second Violation   Third Violation
Voluntary Reductions  N/A             N/A                N/A
Mandatory Reductions  Warning         $250               Discontinuation of
(Stages 2 and 3)                                         Service
Emergency Reductions  $250            Discontinuation of Discontinuation of
                                      Service            Service
Water Rationing       $500            Discontinuation of Discontinuation of
                                      Service            Service
 
   (B)   Drought surcharge rates are effective in Stages 3, 4 and 5.
(Res. passed 8-14-2018)
§ 51.07  PUBLIC COMMENT.
   Customers will have multiple opportunities to comment on the provisions of
the water shortage response plan. First, a draft plan will be will be available
at Town Hall for customers to view. A notice will be included in customer water
bill notifying them of such. Also a draft plan will be published in The
Washington Daily News. All subsequent revisions to the draft plan will be
published at least 30 days prior to an adoption vote by Grimesland's Town
Council.
(Res. passed 8-14-2018)
§ 51.08  VARIANCE PROTOCOLS.
   Applications for water use variance requests are available from the Town
Public Works Office. All applications must be submitted to the Public Works
Office for review by the Public Works Director or his or her designee. A
decision to approve or deny individual variance requests will be determined
within two weeks of submittal after careful consideration of the following
criteria: impact on water demand, expected duration, alternative source
options, social and economic importance, purpose (i.e. necessary use of
drinking water) and the prevention of structural damage.
(Res. passed 8-14-2018)
§ 51.09  EFFECTIVENESS.
   The effectiveness of the Grimesland water shortage response plan will be
determined by comparing the stated water conservation goals with observed water
use reduction data. Other factors to be considered include frequency of plan
activation, any problem periods without activation, total number of violation
citations, desired reductions attained and evaluation of demand reductions
compared to the previous year's seasonal data.
(Res. passed 8-14-2018)
§ 51.10  REVISION.
   The water shortage response plan will be reviewed and revised as needed to
adapt to new circumstances affecting water supply and demand, following
implementation of emergency restrictions, and at a minimum of every five years
in conjunction with the updating of our local water supply plan. Further, a
water shortage response planning work group will review procedures following
each emergency or rationing stage to recommend any necessary improvements to
the plan to Grimesland's Town Council. The Town of Grimesland Public Works
Director is responsible for initiating all subsequent revisions.
(Res. passed 8-14-2018)
CHAPTER 52:  PUBLIC WATER AND WASTEWATER SYSTEMS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Purpose and policy
   
52.002   Definitions
   
52.003   Abbreviations
   
52.004   Authority of Town Board
   
52.005   Visiting utility stations
   
52.006   Tampering with equipment
   
52.007   Connections and meters to remain property of town
   
52.008   Maintenance of meters
   
52.009   Right to shut off water or sewer for repairs and the like
   
52.010   No claim for damages on account of accident
   
52.011   Requirements for water and sewer taps
   
52.012   Payment for construction cost
   
52.013   Water and sewer rates and billing
Operation of System, Generally
   
52.025   Connections
   
52.026   Application for connections
   
52.027   Separate connections required; exceptions
   
52.028   When required
   
52.029   Where connections made
   
52.030   Connections beyond town limits
Operation of Water System
   
52.045   Public water system defined; approval of plans and specifications
   
52.046   Reserved
   
52.047   Reserved
   
52.048   Provisions for water service
   
52.049   Taking water from public hydrants
   
52.050   Inspection of fire hydrants
Operation of Wastewater System
   
52.065   Standards for sewer system
   
52.066   Provision of sewer service
   
52.067   Outdoor privies and the like
   
52.068   Emptying wastewater into stream and the like prohibited
   
52.069   Prohibited discharges into sewers, generally
   
52.070   Specified waters and wastes
   
52.071   Special pollutant limitations
   
52.072   Pretreatment generally; sand and grease traps
Operation of System; Storm Water
   
52.085   Discharge into storm drainage system
   
52.086   Extension of storm drainage system
Industrial Wastewater Pretreatment
   
52.100   Generally
   
52.101   Discharge permits and reporting
   
52.102   Sampling and monitoring
   
52.103   Enforcement by town
Enforcement Generally
   
52.115   Legal actions by town
   
52.116   Water supply severance
   
52.117   Public nuisance
Cross-Connections
   
52.130   Definitions
   
52.131   Cross-connection control
   
52.132   Right of entry
   
52.133   Elimination of cross-connections
   
52.134   Installation
   
52.135   Testing and repair
   
52.136   Severe hazard facilities and methods of correction
   
52.137   Moderate hazard
   
52.138   Imminent hazard
   
52.139   Lawn irrigation systems
   
52.140   Fire sprinkler systems
   
52.141   Notices
   
52.142   Violations
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001  PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the town,
hereafter referred to as the town, and enable the town to comply with all
applicable state and federal laws required by the Clean Water Act of 1977, the
General Pretreatment Regulations (40 C.F.R. part 403) and the Wastewater
Ordinance and Pretreatment Program of the Greenville Utilities Commission for
the Town of Greenville, North Carolina (hereafter referred to as “the town”).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To protect the town’s potable water supply;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipality
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system to
contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (3)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated,
into receiving water or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the
system;
      (4)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludges from the system; and
      (5)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the municipal
wastewater system.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributions to the municipal wastewater system, through the issuance of
permits to certain nondomestic users and through enforcement of general
requirements for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement
activities, requires user reporting and provides for the setting of fees for
the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program established
herein.
   (D)   This chapter shall apply to the town and to persons outside the town,
who are, by permit or agreement with the town, users of the town’s POTW. Except
as otherwise provided herein, the town’s POTW Director shall administer,
implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)
§ 52.002  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT.  The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   AMMONIA NITROGEN.  The total amount of nitrogen in the form of ammonia or
ammonium expressed in terms of concentration and/or weight (milligrams per
liter/parts per million or kilograms/pounds).
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF AN INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   A responsible corporate officer as defined in 40 C.F.R. § 403.12,
if the industrial user is a corporation;
      (2)   A general partner or proprietor if the industrial user is a
partnership or proprietorship, respectively; and/or
      (3)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated above
if the representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the indirect discharge originates.
   BILLABLE BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND.  The discharge in pounds of BOD
calculated using the billable flow and concentration of BOD in the wastewater
in excess of 250 mg/l.
   BILLABLE CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND.  The discharge in pounds of COD calculated
using the billable flow and concentration of BOD in the wastewater in excess of
600 mg/l.
   BILLABLE FLOW.  Recorded water usage as determined by the appropriate water
utility, plus measured water from wells and other sources, times the approved
percentage factor for wastewater entering the wastewater system. Alternatively,
industrial users may have their BILLABLE FLOW determined by continuously
measuring their discharge in a manner approved by the Director.
   BILLABLE TOTAL NITROGEN.  The discharge in pounds of total nitrogen
calculated using the billable flow and concentration of total nitrogen in the
wastewater in excess of 40 mg/l.
   BILLABLE TOTAL PHOSPHORUS.  The discharge in pounds of total phosphorus
calculated using the billable flow and concentration of total phosphorus in the
wastewater in excess of seven mg/l.
   BILLABLE TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS).  The discharge in pounds of TSS
calculated using the billable flow and concentration of TSS in the wastewater
in excess of 250 mg/l.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND.  The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in parts per million by weight.
   BUILDING DRAIN.  The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives wastewater and is located inside the walls of a building
and conveys the wastewater to the building sewer, which begins five feet
outside the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER.  An extension from the building drain to the sanitary sewer
or other discharge location.
   CATEGORICAL STANDARDS (NATIONAL CATEGORICAL STANDARD OR PRETREATMENT
STANDARDS).  Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated
by the EPA in accordance with § 30(b) and (c) of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C.
§ 134) which applies to a specific category of the industrial users.
   COD (CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND).  The total quantity of oxygen required for the
chemical oxidation of organic matter in waste as described in Standard Methods.
   COLOR.  The true color due to the substances in solution.
   COMBINED WASTEWATER FORMULA.  The combined wastewater formula is a mechanism
for calculating appropriate limitations specific in applicable regulations to a
wastewater in which process waste streams are mixed with regulated, unregulated
or dilution streams, thereby resulting in a mixed effluent. For calculation of
the combined wastewater formula, see C.F.R. § 403.6(e).
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE.  For monitoring requirements, a minimum of four grab
samples collected at equally spaced two-hour intervals and proportioned
according to flow.
   CONCENTRATION, BASED LIMIT.  A limit based on the relative strength of a
pollutant in a wastestream, usually expressed in mg/l.
   CONSTRUCTION.  Any one or more of the following: Preliminary planning to
determine the feasibility of treatment works or sanitary sewers, engineering,
architectural, legal, fiscal or economic investigations or studies, surveys,
designs, plans, working drawings, specifications, procedures, or other
necessary actions, erection, building, acquisition, alteration, remodeling,
improvement or extension of treatment works or sanitary sewers, or the
inspection or supervision of any of the foregoing items.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY.  This term shall refer to the APPROVAL AUTHORITY, defined
hereinabove; or the POTW Director of the town upon approval of the town’s
pretreatment program.
   COOLING WATER.  The water discharged from any use, such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, during which the only pollutant or constituent added
to the water is heat.
   DEM.  The North Carolina Division of Environmental Management.
   DILUTION WASTESTREAM.  Boiler blow down, sanitary wastewater, non-contract
cooling water or blow down, and waste streams containing none of the regulated
pollutant or only trace amounts or it.
   DIRECT DISCHARGE.  The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly
to the waters of the state.
   DIRECTOR.  The Director of Public Works, or an authorized representative.
   DOMESTIC WASTEWATER.  The wastewater generated from normal human living
processes, which has consistent strength within the range defined for standard
strength wastewater and which contains no parameters of a quantity or
concentration exceeding the limits in §
52.071. Normal human living processes include wastewater from bathrooms and
toilets, noncommercial kitchens and nonindustrial and noncommercial laundries.
   EFFLUENT.  Wastewater, water or other liquid, partially or completely
treated or in its natural state, as the case may be, flowing out of a
reservoir, septic tank, basin or treatment plant, or part thereof.
   EFFLUENT, FINAL.  The effluent from the final unit of a waste treatment
plant.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA).  The United States Environmental
Protection Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a
designation for the administrator or other duly authorized official of the
agency.
   FLOATABLE OIL.  Oil, fat or grease in a physical state so that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater.
   GARBAGE.  The animal or vegetable wastes from the domestic and commercial
preparation, cooking and dispensing of food, and from the commercial handling,
storage and sale or produce.
   GRAB SAMPLE.  For monitoring requirements, a single “dip and take” sample
collected at a representative point in the discharge stream.
   HEADWORKS ANALYSIS.  An evaluation of the capability of the POTW to receive
pollutants performed in accordance with DEM and EPA regulations.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE.  Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks and vacuum pump tank trucks.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE.  The discharge or the introduction of nondomestic
pollutants from any source regulated under § 307(b) or (c) or the Act (33
U.S.C. § 1317) to the POTW.
   INDUSTRIAL USER or I.U.  A source of indirect discharge which does not
constitute a “discharge of pollutants” under regulations issued pursuant to §
402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342).
   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER.  The wastewater generated from activities operations
or processes which require water and which add to the water pollutant
parameters at a strength exceeding standard wastewater strength or at a
quantity or concentration exceeding allowable limits defined in §
52.071.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER SURCHARGE.  The additional charge for service provided
to any user in the town’s wastewater system service area which has effluent
characteristics exceeding those of standard strength wastewater.
   INFILTRATION.  Water other than wastewater that enters a sewage system
(including sewer service connections) from the ground through such means as
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manholes.
   INFLOW.  Water other than wastewater that enters a sewage system (including
sewer service connections) from sources such as roof leaders, cellar drains,
yard drains, area drains, foundation drains, drains from springs and swampy
areas, manhole covers, cross connections between storm sewers and sanitary
sewers, catch basins, cooling towers, storm water, surface runoff, street wash
waters or drainage.
   INFLUENT.  The wastewaters arriving at the public wastewater treatment
facility for treatment.
   INSTANTANEOUS MEASUREMENT.  For monitoring requirements, a single reading,
observation or measurement.
   INTERFERENCE.  The inhibition or disruption of the POTW treatment process or
operations which contributes to a violation of any requirement of the town’s
NPDES permit. The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by
the POTW in accordance with § 405 of the Act, or any criteria, guidelines or
regulation developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air
Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, or more stringent state criteria
(including those contained in any state sludge management plan prepared
pursuant to Title IV of SWDA) applicable to the method of disposal or use
employed by the POTW.
   LOCAL LIMITS.  Numerical pollutant concentration or mass-based values that
are developed by a POTW for controlling the discharge of pollutants.
   MASS-BASED LIMIT.  A limitation based on the actual quantity of a pollutant
in a discharge, usually expressed in some unit of production.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or PRETREATMENT STANDARD.  Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act which applies to a specific
category of industrial users.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT.  A permit
issued for discharge to the navigable waters of the United States.
   NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD.
Any regulation developed under the authority of § 307(b) of the Act and 40
C.F.R. § 403.5.
   NATURAL OUTLET.  Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
surface water or groundwater.
   NEW SOURCE.  Any building, structure, facility or installation from which
there is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which is
commenced after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307
(c) of the Act which will be applicable to the source, if the standard is
thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, with the provisions
stipulated in 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(k).
   NPDES or NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM. A permit issued
pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342), or pursuant to G.S. § 143-
215.1 by the state under delegation from EPA.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS.  All costs, direct and indirect, not
including debt service and capital related expenditures, but inclusive of
expenditures attributable to administration, monitoring, inspections, reviewing
applications, maintenance of equipment and treatment and collection of
wastewater, necessary to assure adequate wastewater collection and treatment on
a continuing basis which conforms to applicable regulations and assures optimal
long-term facility management.
   PERSON.  Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representative, agents or
assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine, the singular shall
include the plural where indicated by the context.
   pH.  A term to indicate the degree of acidity or alkalinity as determined by
Standard Methods.
   POLLUTANT.  Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive
materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and
industrial, commercial and agricultural waste discharged into water.
   POLLUTION.  The human-made or man-induced alteration of chemical, physical,
biological and radiological integrity of water.
   PPM (PARTS PER MILLION).  A ratio of weight to volume; for the purposes of
this chapter, it is interchangeable with mg/l (milligrams per liter).
   PRETREATMENT.  The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging the
pollutants to the POTW. The reduction or alteration can be obtained by
physical, chemical or biological processes, or process changes of other means,
except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(d).
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENT.  Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a categorical pretreatment standard imposed on an
industrial user.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE.  The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER.  A sanitary or storm sewer which is controlled by the town and
in which all owners of abutting properties have equal rights.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW).  A treatment works as defined by §
212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292) which is owned in this instance partially by
the town and partially by the Greenville Utilities Commission. This definition
includes any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW treatment plant, but
does not include pipes, sewers or other conveyances not connected to a facility
providing treatment. For the purposes of this chapter, POTW shall also include
any sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside the town
who are, by contract or agreement with the town, users of the POTW.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW) TREATMENT PLANT.  The portion of the
town’s POTW designed to provide treatment of wastewater.
   QUALIFIED LABORATORY.  A laboratory currently certified by the state to
perform water and wastewater analyses.
   RECEIVING STREAM.  The body of water, stream or watercourse receiving the
discharge water from the wastewater treatment plant or formed by the waters
discharged from the wastewater treatment plant.
   REGULATED PROCESS WASTESTREAM.  An industrial process wastestream regulated
by National Categorical Pretreatment Standards.
   REPLACEMENT.  Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capability and performance for which the works
were designed and constructed. The term “operation and maintenance” includes
REPLACEMENT.
   SANITARY CLOSET.  A privy, closet, urinal or other device for the receiving
of human excrement, connected with proper fittings so that its contents may
empty into the town’s sewer.
   SANITARY SEWER.  A sewer which carries wastewater.
   SEWAGE.  A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments.
   SEWER.  The pipes and systems for transporting wastewater, including septic
tanks, effluent pumps, pressure service laterals, pressure mains and pump
stations.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE.  A charge to a customer for transporting and treating
wastewater.
   SHALL.  Mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER.  Any industrial user of the wastewater disposal
system which:
      (1)   Has a process wastewater flow of 25,000 gallons or more per average
work day;
      (2)   Contributes more than 5% of any design or treatment capacity of the
wastewater treatment plant receiving the discharge; and
      (3)   Is required to meet a National Categorical Pretreatment Standard;
or
      (4)   Is found by the town, the Division of Environmental Management or
the EPA to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with other
contributing industries, on the wastewater treatment system, the quality of
sludge, the system’s effluent quality or air emissions generated by the system.
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.  A violation as defined in this chapter.
Significant noncompliance shall occur when the analytical results of more than
two of three samples taken from a discharge during a reporting period indicate
violation of a limitation. SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE shall also occur when the
analytical results of more than one of three samples taken from a discharge
during a reporting period exceed a limitation by a factor of 1.4 for BOD, TSS
and TKN and by a factor of 1.2 for all other parameters, except pH.
   SLUG.  Any discharge of wastewater which in concentration of any given
constituent or is quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration longer
than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration or flow
during normal operation or which causes interference.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC).  A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual, issued by the Executive Office of
the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1987 or later edition.
   STANDARD METHODS.  The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition
of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, prepared and
published jointly by the American Public Health Association, American Water
Works Association and Water Environment Control Federation or any other
procedures recognized by the DEM and EPA (40 C.F.R. § 136).
   STANDARD STRENGTH WASTES.  Wastes as defined in §
52.071.
   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM (STORM SEWER).  A system of pipes, culverts, ditches,
catch basins and manholes which collects water from rainfall and discharges it
into a natural drain way.
   STORM WATER.  Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SUPERINTENDENT.  The person designated by the town to supervise the
operation of the town’s publicly owned treatment works and who is charged with
certain duties and responsibilities by this chapter, or his or her duly
authorized representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS).  Solids that either
float on the surface of or are in suspension in water, wastewater or other
liquids and which are removable by laboratory filtering.
   TOTAL KIELDAHL NITROGEN (TKN).  The total amount of nitrogen in the tri-
negative state, including ammonia, ammonium and organically bound nitrogen as
measured by standard laboratory procedures and expressed in terms of
concentration by weight (milligrams per liter/part per million or kilogram/
pounds.
   TOTAL NITROGEN.  The total kjeldahl nitrogen plus nitrite nitrogen plus
nitrate nitrogen.
   TOTAL ORGANIC CARBON (TOC).  A measure of the amount of organic carbon in
water.
   TOTAL PHOSPHORUS.  All orthophosphates and condensed phosphates, both
dissolved and particulate, organic and inorganic.
   TOWN.  The Town of Grimesland, North Carolina or the Town Board of Aldermen
of Grimesland, North Carolina.
   TOXIC PARAMETERS OR SUBSTANCES.  Any wastes, whether gaseous, liquid or
solid, which, when discharged into the sanitary sewer in sufficient quantities,
may tend to interfere with any wastewater treatment process, may constitute a
hazard to human beings or animals or may inhibit aquatic life or create a
hazard to recreation in the receiving waters of the effluent from the
wastewater treatment plant.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT.  Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic
in regulations promulgated by the administrator of the EPA under the provisions
of CWA § 307(a) or other Acts.
   UNREGULATED PROCESS WASTESTREAM.  An industrial process wastestream that is
not regulated by a categorical standard. Note: a wastestream from a process may
be “regulated” for one pollutant and “unregulated” for another.
   USEFUL LIFE.  Estimated period during which a treatment works will be
operated.
   USER.  Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the town’s POTW.
   USER CHARGE.  A charge levied on users of a publicly owned treatment works
for the user’s proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance of
such.
   WASTE DISCHARGE PERMIT.  A permit to be issued by the Town Directors as a
necessary condition to being granted, or retaining, a publicly provided access
point for connection to a public sewer for any industrial user.
   WASTEWATER.  Any combination of liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, including
cooling water, holding tank waste and infiltration/inflow.
      (1)   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER.  A combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes discharged from any industrial establishment and resulting from any
trade or process carried on in that establishment and shall include the wastes
from pretreatment facilities and cooling water.
      (2)   SANITARY WASTEWATER.  The combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT (WWTP).  The plant of the town which receives
wastewater and provides necessary treatment. It may also be referred to as
POTW.
   WATERS OF THE STATE.  All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourse,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation system, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through, or bordered upon the state, or any portion thereof.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)
§ 52.003  ABBREVIATIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following abbreviations shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD.  Biochemical oxygen demand.
   C.F.R.  Code of Federal Regulations.
   COD.  Chemical oxygen demand.
   DEM.  North Carolina Division of Environmental Management.
   EPA.  Environmental Protection Agency.
   G.S.  North Carolina General Statutes.
   l.  Liter.
   mg.  Milligrams.
   mg/l.  Milligrams per liter, interchangeable with PPM (parts per million).
   NPDES.  National pollutant discharge elimination system.
   SIC.  Standard industrial classification.
   SWDA.  Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.
   TKN.  Total kjeldahl nitrogen.
   TSS.  Total suspended solids.
   U.S.C.  United States Code.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)
§ 52.004  AUTHORITY OF TOWN BOARD.
   (A)   All utilities owned, leased or used by the town, whether inside or
outside the corporate limits, shall be under the full control of the Town Board
of Aldermen pursuant to authorization in Session Laws of 1953, Chapter 300.
   (B)   The duty of enacting and enforcing rules and regulations governing the
management and control of town properties shall be vested in the Town Board of
Aldermen and the duty of enforcing the rules and regulation may be delegated.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)
§ 52.005  VISITING UTILITY STATIONS.
   No visitor shall be permitted to enter the water treatment plant or any
water or wastewater pumping station unless accompanied by the person in charge,
and under no circumstances shall any visitor handle or in any way come in
contact with any part of the machinery.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)
§ 52.006  TAMPERING WITH EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with, remove or
otherwise interfere with any equipment, apparatus or materials belonging to the
water and sewer systems of the town or to dig in the vicinity of any water or
sewer lines without first obtaining permission. It shall likewise be unlawful
for any person to remove or damage property of any kind belonging to the town.
   (B)   A reward of up to $200 shall be offered to any person furnishing
information leading to the arrest and conviction of any person violating this
section.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.007  CONNECTIONS AND METERS TO REMAIN PROPERTY OF TOWN.
   All water meters, meter boxes, pipes and other equipment furnished and used
by the town in installing any water or sewer connection shall be and remain the
property of the town.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)
§ 52.008  MAINTENANCE OF METERS.
   All meters, except such as are required to be furnished by particular users
of water, shall be kept in good repair and working order by and at the expense
of the town. Meters furnished by particular users of water shall be kept in
good repair and working order by the town, but the expense thereof shall be
borne by the users. Meters for measuring the flow of wastewater, where
required, shall be maintained by the town at the expense of the customer.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)
§ 52.009  RIGHT TO SHUT OFF WATER OR SEWER FOR REPAIRS AND THE LIKE.
   The town reserves the right at any time to shut off the water or sewer
service in case of accident or for the purpose of making connections or
repairs, or as provided for herein.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)
§ 52.010  NO CLAIM FOR DAMAGES ON ACCOUNT OF ACCIDENT.
   It is expressly agreed between the town, users and consumers of water or
sewer that no claim for damages shall be made against the town on account of
accidental failure to supply water, whether by quantity or quality.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)
§ 52.011  REQUIREMENTS FOR WATER AND SEWER TAPS.
   All structures shall comply with the State Plumbing Code, and all plumbing
facilities shall be properly connected to the town’s water and sewer system.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)
§ 52.012  PAYMENT FOR CONSTRUCTION COST.
   (A)   General requirements within town.
      (1)   Water and sewer extensions shall be made upon order of the Town
Board of Aldermen as it deems necessary, and in accordance with provisions of
state law, and cost of the extensions shall be shared jointly by the town and
owners of property abutting the water or sewer extensions improvement,
according to this policy.
      (2)   Corner lots are exempt from water or sewer improvement assessments
for a maximum of 150 feet on one side of a corner lot. In the event a water or
sewer line is constructed across only one side of a corner lot, that side will
be assessed at the then existing rate for its full distance. At a time in the
future that a water or sewer line is extended across the other side of that
corner lot, that side will be assessed at the then existing rate; except, that
a corner lot exemption up to 150, but not exceeding the distance along that
side, shall be allowed, provided an assessment has been paid for the first
side. Lots having a double frontage will be assessed for water and sewer
improvements on both sides, if both sides can be developed according to the
zoning ordinance. If a double frontage lot is also a corner lot, only one
corner lot exemption will be allowed, unless both frontages can be developed
according to the zoning ordinance and both frontages have been assessed. In
that case the property will be entitled to two corner lot exemptions.
      (3)   The town will not assess any existing user any of the cost of
enlarging or paralleling water or sewer mains in use.
      (4)   An assessment for water and sewer extensions made under this policy
may be spread over a period of ten years if requested by the property owner.
The assessments will bear interest at the highest rate provided by state law
per annum on the unpaid balance, with the first assessment becoming due in
October next succeeding the date of completion of improvements within the
town’s limits only.
   (B)   Water and sewer tap fees and capital investment fees. See current user
charge system.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)
§ 52.013  WATER AND SEWER RATES AND BILLING.
   (A)   Connection; new customers. New customers to the water and/or sewer
system(s) will be charged a connection fee and any deposit which is required of
all customers in accordance with those then in effect.
   (B)   Connection; customers changing location. Customers moving from one
location to another within the water system shall be charged a connection fee
in accordance with the amount then in effect.
   (C)   Penalties and payments. All water meters shall be read monthly, and
bills shall be mailed on a cycle basis. The volume of water consumed, as
registered by the water meters, shall be the basis of charging for water and
sewer. Where separate meters are installed for swimming pools, sprinklers and
the like, and there is no return to the sewer system, the user will be charged
only for the volume of water used.
      (1)   Every bill shall be due when mailed to a customer at the last
address provided by the customer; a bill shall be delinquent if not paid before
the fifteenth of the month following the billing date shown on the bill.
      (2)   A late payment penalty in an amount set by the Board of Aldermen
from time to time may be imposed upon the unpaid balance of any delinquent
bill.
      (3)   A second notice is sent out on the sixteenth.
      (4)   If payment is not made by the twentieth of the month from the
billing date shown on the bill, service may be discontinued. Once service has
been discontinued, a reconnection fee of the amount then in effect will be
charged, for restoration of service.
      (5)   A customer whose service is disconnected for nonpayment may have
service restored during regular working hours upon payment of the bill in full
plus the reconnection fee. If a customer requests that services be reconnected
after regular working hours, the reconnection fee will be one and one-half
times the reconnection fee then in effect.
      (6)   The customer shall pay all billed utility charges before
transferring service from one location to another. The final bill shall be
mailed to the customer’s new billing address. If a customer fails to pay his or
her utility bills for any account where he or she is listed as the customer and
the account becomes delinquent, the town may transfer the amount owed it to any
other account where the customer is a primary recipient of utilities and cut
off utilities to the account for nonpayment. The town may also refuse to
transfer an account to a new customer’s name or connect services to a new
account where the delinquent customer will be a primary recipient of utilities.
A customer is a primary recipient of utilities wherever he or she is listed as
a customer, resides as a head of household or conducts a trade or business. The
town’s determination that a customer is a primary recipient of utilities shall
be effective until the customer proves otherwise.
      (7)   Any customer who has a check or draft returned from any financial
institution because of insufficient funds or a closed account shall be charged
a service charge fee in the amount then in effect.
   (D)   Water and sewer deposits.
      (1)   Residential:
         (a)   Any person or entity applying for water and/or sewer to be
furnished to residential premises shall make deposits according to the
following schedule: See current user charge system.
         (b)   The deposit requirement may be satisfied as follows:
            1.   A cash deposit, which shall be refunded by credit to the
customer’s account on the last bill rendered for service; or
            2.   Proof that the deposit requirement of division (D)(1) above,
have been met at another location for which the customer is responsible.
      (2)   Commercial:
         (a)   Any person or entity applying for water and/or sewer to be
furnished to commercial premises shall make a deposit according to the
following schedule: commercial customers: two-twelfths of annual charges. The
initial deposit(s) shall be based upon the town’s estimate of customer’s usage.
After six billing periods following the initial deposit, the customer’s actual
usage will be reviewed, and the deposit adjusted to reflect the actual usage.
If the amount of the required deposit is decreased, the difference shall be
credited to the customer’s account; if the amount of the required deposit is
increased, the difference shall be billed to the customer.
         (b)   The deposit(s) requirement may be satisfied as follows:
            1.   A cash deposit, which shall be refunded by credit to the
customer’s account on the last bill rendered for service; or
            2.   Proof that the deposit requirements of division (D)(1) above,
have been met at another location within the town’s system for which the
customer is responsible.
         (c)   The deposit may be increased, in the town’s discretion, upon the
customer’s third failure to pay a bill in a timely manner, having service
terminated for nonpayment or having a check or draft returned because of
insufficient funds or a closed account. This increase shall be an amount equal
to initial deposit for residential premises or two-twelfths of the estimated
annual charges for commercial premises.
         (d)   When service is disconnected at the customer’s request, the
deposit shall be credited to customer’s final bill. If any deposit remains, the
town will hold the final bill and mail it along with a town check, to the
customer at the address given by the customer. If the departing customer does
not leave a valid forwarding address with the town, and remaining refund will
be held for 30 days at Town Hall before being placed into an inactive status
file. Deposit returns apply only to customers who are moving off of the town’s
system and not to those customers who are transferring service from one
location to another within the system. When a customer is transferring service
within the town’s system, the deposit shall be transferred with the service.
         (e)   Each customer must appear personally to apply for or terminate
water and sewer service with the Town Clerk.
   (E)   Protested bills; meter testing. If a user has an excessive bill and
thinks that it is caused by a faulty meter, he or she may, by making a deposit,
in an amount as set by the Board from time to time, with the town, request that
the meter be removed and checked. If the meter is found to be in error, the
deposit, in an amount as set by the Board from time to time, will be refunded
and the bill adjusted for the three preceding months. The adjustment will be
based in the percentage of error in the meter. If the meter is found to be
accurate, the deposit, in an amount as set by the Board from time to time, will
be retained by the town.
   (F)   Adjustment of water and sewer bills.
      (1)   If the town determines that it has overcharged or undercharged a
customer on account of its error, the town shall refund or recover the
difference subject to the following:
         (a)   The adjustment period shall be limited to the lesser of the
actual period during which the error occurred or 12 months;
         (b)   The amount of adjustment shall be determined by the Town Board
of Aldermen based upon evidence as it deems appropriate; and
         (c)   Any overcharge may be either refunded or credited to the
customer and any undercharge shall be billed to the customer.
      (2)   If the town determines that it has undercharged a customer on
account of any unlawful or materially misleading act of the customer, the
undercharge shall be determined and collected as set out above except the
adjustment period shall be greater of the actual period during which the error
occurred (up to 36 months) or 12 months, if the adjustment period cannot be
determined. The town shall, in addition to collecting the undercharge, have the
right to take other action against the customer as is permitted by law.
   (G)   Water rates and bills. See current user charge system.
   (H)   Sewer rates and bills. See current user charge system.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)
OPERATION OF SYSTEM, GENERALLY
§ 52.025  CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Work to be done by town. The construction of laterals for the
connection of the sewer or water pipes on any lot with sewer or water pipes in
any street and the necessary excavation thereof shall be done only by the town
unless otherwise authorized by the town.
   (B)   Work to be done by property owner. The construction of on-site piping
or specialty pump stations required by the town of domestic users, all piping
from the building(s) thereto, and all piping to the service valve assembly,
shall be the responsibility of the property owner. Pump stations and piping
shall be in accordance with the town’s standard specifications for materials
and equipment. Any electrical power costs shall be billed directly to and paid
by the customer.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)
§ 52.026  APPLICATION FOR CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No connection shall be made to any sewer or water lateral except after
approval of the written application therefore.
   (B)   Every application for a sewer or water connection shall state the name
of the owner of the lot, the name of the street on which the lot is situated,
the number of the house, if there is a house on the lot or, if not, a
description of the location of the lot, the number and kind of connections
required and the character of surface of the abutting street. Every application
shall be signed by the person making the application and shall be accompanied
by the proper fee for making the connection applied for.
   (C)   No person shall make any connection of roof down spouts, exterior
foundation drains, area drains, or other sources of inflow, groundwater or
other unpolluted waters to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is
connected, directly or indirectly, to a public sanitary sewer.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.027  SEPARATE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Every house, duplex apartment or building abutting any water or sewer
main shall have a separate connection. The town may construct a single water
line of sufficient size to the curb line; provided, that each house, duplex
apartment or business is connected through a separate water meter. Approved
mobile home parks and other select projects may be served with a single master
water meter if approved by the town.
   (B)   This section is not intended to prevent the owner of a building
containing three or more apartments or shops from furnishing water to all
tenants within the building through one meter; provided, that this exception
will not apply to a building owned by more than one person, nor will it apply
to several buildings connected by breezeways, carports or anything similar.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)
§ 52.028  WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   Within 30 days from the time when any water main in any street is
completed and ready to use, the owner of every abutting lot shall cause the lot
to be connected with the water main.
   (B)   Within 30 days after the time when any sewer main in any street is
completed and ready for use, if a water main has also been installed in the
street, the owner of any abutting lot having thereon improvements for occupancy
shall cause a water closet and sink to be installed and to be connected with
the sewer main and shall cause all other sewer facilities on the lot to be
connected with the sewer main.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)
§ 52.029  WHERE CONNECTIONS MADE.
   (A)   Water and sewer connection shall be made into existing taps
constructed by the town to serve a lot. In the event a tap is not existing, one
will be provided as close as possible to the location requested by the
customer. When lines are constructed by the town, water service line shall be
constructed to the point where the meter box will be set, and sewer service
lines shall be constructed to the service valve assembly at approximately the
start of the right-of-way line.
   (B)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, upon examination and testing by the town’s Director, to
meet all requirements of the town and this chapter. All new building sewers
including any necessary replacement of existing building sewers shall comply
with the State Building Code, Volume II, Plumbing.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify
the town from any loss or damage that may, directly or indirectly, be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer provided, however, that
the indemnification shall not extend to loss or damage due solely to willful
misconduct or negligence on the part of the town.
   (D)   It shall be responsibility of the owner to keep and maintain the
building sewer connected to the public sewer in good repair. The owner shall be
responsible for making necessary repairs, at his or her own expense, to the
building sewer when notified in writing by the town’s Director that repairs are
necessary. Should the owner fail to repair the building sewer within 15 days
after receiving written notification that the repairs are necessary, the town
may make the necessary repairs and shall assess the owner for the cost of the
repairs.
   (E)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
wastewater carried by the building drain may be lifted by a means approved by
the town and discharged to the building sewer. The connection of the building
sewer into the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of applicable
building and plumbing codes and other applicable rules and regulations of the
town. All the connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation
from the prescribed procedures shall be approved by the town before
installation.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)
§ 52.030  CONNECTIONS BEYOND TOWN LIMITS.
   Any person owning or controlling premises located beyond the corporate
limits and desiring to install a plumbing system for the purpose of discharging
domestic wastewater or industrial waste into the sanitary sewers of the town
may do so by complying with the requirements of this chapter and paying all
applicable fees and charges.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)
OPERATION OF WATER SYSTEM
§ 52.045  PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM DEFINED; APPROVAL OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   A PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM is a publicly or privately owned water system
regularly serving drinking water to the public and having at least 15 service
connections that are used at least 60 days of the year or serve an average of
25 individuals at least 60 days of a year.
   (B)   Plans and specifications must be approved by the State Division of
Environmental Health.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)
§ 52.046  RESERVED.
§ 52.047  RESERVED.
§ 52.048  PROVISIONS FOR WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   Area outside town.
      (1)   With adequate water lines existing. Upon receipt of a request for
water service and payment of all fees and charges, the Public Works Department
may construct a water tap to serve the property. The property owner shall pay
the then existing water tap fee and any capital investment fee required prior
to receiving a tap.
      (2)   Water lines not existing.
         (a)   Upon receipt of a request for water service, the Town Board of
Aldermen may approve the request and authorized construction of a line to serve
the property. When a water line is constructed, it shall extend across the
entire frontage of the property to be serviced.
         (b)   The property owner or developer shall bear the cost of all
materials and right-of-way to construct a water line from the nearest
adequately sized line to serve the property, and to construct all distribution
lines required and approved by the town to serve the property to be developed.
The town may bear the cost of labor and equipment to construct the line. The
Town Board of Aldermen may order that the construction be accomplished by a
contractor, in which case the party requesting the service shall pay the full
cost.
         (c)   If the Town Board of Aldermen determine that sufficient
advantages exist, it may choose to bear the cost of materials, labor and
equipment to construct a line from the nearest adequately sized water line to
the property to be served.
         (d)   Each property requesting service and abutting a water line
constructed according to divisions (A)(2)(b) or (c) above shall comply with
division (A)(1) above.
      (3)   Charges after annexation into town. After annexation into the town,
property which abuts an existing water line shall pay the then existing inside
capital investment fee and water tap fee prior to receiving a tap.
      (4)   Fire hydrants. The town will not install fire hydrants outside the
corporate limits, except where arrangements are made to pay for construction of
the hydrant, pay an annual use fee, measure water flow and pay for water used,
unless the Town Board of Aldermen determines that sufficient advantages exist
that it may choose to bear the cost of construction of same.
      (5)   Water rates. Water customers outside the town shall be charged the
regular outside rate.
   (B)   Area inside town.
      (1)   With adequate water lines existing. The town will construct a water
tap after receipt of the then existing water tap fee.
      (2)   Water lines not existing. When a property owner within the town
requests water service, the Town Board of Aldermen may order the extension of a
water main to serve the property and assess all abutting property owners an
amount equal to the cost of construction, but the assessments shall not exceed
the increase in property values resulting from extension of service to the
property.
   (C)   Other conditions. When a subdivision or developer requests water
service and conditions in divisions (A) or (B) above do not apply, or if an
unusually large amount of construction is required, the conditions of payment
shall be determined through negotiations and established in a contract between
the property owner and Town Board of Aldermen.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)
§ 52.049  TAKING WATER FROM PUBLIC HYDRANTS.
   No person, except the Town Director of Public Works or Chief of the Fire
Department or person in charge of street cleaning, shall take or in any way use
water for private use from public fire hydrants, unless the person shall pay
for the privilege and/or receive the usual permit to do so.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.050  INSPECTION OF FIRE HYDRANTS.
   It shall be the duty of the Town Director of Public Works or his or her
designated representative to examine all fire hydrants in the town on a routine
basis.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)
OPERATION OF WASTEWATER SYSTEM
§ 52.065  STANDARDS FOR SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Plans for additions or alterations to the existing sewer system must
be approved by the Town Board of Aldermen and DEM.
   (B)   When availability of public sanitary sewer system service is not
immediate, new septic tanks with nitrification fields may be allowed to be
installed within the town’s limits for new structures according to County
Health Department requirements. Upon availability of the public sanitary sewer
system, the nitrification field shall be properly abandoned and connection made
to the public system. Where the public sanitary sewer system is available,
septic tanks with nitrification fields shall not be constructed within the
town’s limits. Instead, connection shall be made to the town’s sewer system.
Any pre-existing septic tank not to continue in operation should be properly
abandoned and removed, or filled with dirt.
   (C)   As a condition of receiving a sewer service, the potential user shall
also be a town water system customer or reside in the town limits with an
approved metering device.
   (D)   Septic tanks with nitrification fields for new structures shall not be
constructed within the town’s extraterritorial jurisdiction where existing
water and sewer mains abut the property. Instead, connection to the town’s
water and sewer systems shall be required.
   (E)   All applicants for sewer service shall execute, prior to connection to
the sewer system, a blanket easement to the town for purposes of installation,
operation and maintenance of a service valve assembly. The details of easements
for applicants other than residential shall be handled on an individual basis.
   (F)   Service valve assemblies and other apparatus for sewer service as
designated by the town’s Director shall be maintained by the town. Maintenance
of any individual pumps and pump controls shall be accomplished by the property
owner.
   (G)   Structures such as grease/sand traps, holding tanks, control manholes,
other pretreatment or specialty units or equipment shall be operated and
maintained by the user at his or her expense.
   (H)   Any costs for electrical power service and the monthly charges for
electrical power usage to operate any required effluent pumps shall be the
responsibility of the user. Charges shall be billed directly to the user by the
power company.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000; Ord. passed 1-9-2007)
§ 52.066  PROVISION OF SEWER SERVICE.
   (A)   Area outside town.
      (1)   With adequate sewer lines existing. Upon receipt of a request for
sewer service and payment of all fees and charges, the Public Works Department
may construct a sewer tap to serve the property. The property owner shall pay
the then existing sewer tap fee and any capital investment fee required prior
to receiving a tap.
      (2)   Sewer lines not existing.
         (a)   Upon receipt of a request for sewer service, the Town Board of
Aldermen may approve the request and authorize construction of a line to serve
the property. When a sewer line is constructed, it shall extend across the
entire frontage of the property to be served.
         (b)   The party requesting sewer service shall pay the entire cost of
construction, including materials, labor, equipment for necessary septic tanks,
pumps, mains and lift stations.
         (c)   If the Town Board of Aldermen determine that sufficient
advantages exist, it may choose to bear the cost of constructing a sewer line
from the nearest adequately sized sewer line to the property served.
         (d)   Each property requesting service and abutting a sewer line
constructed according to divisions (A)(2)(b) or (c) above shall comply with
division (A)(1) above.
      (3)   Charges after annexation into town. After annexation into the town,
property which abuts an existing sewer line shall pay the then existing inside
capital investment fee and sewer tap fee prior to receiving a tap.
      (4)   Sewer rates. Sewer customers outside the town shall be charged the
regular outside rate.
   (B)   Area inside town.
      (1)   With adequate sewer lines existing. The town will construct a sewer
tap after receipt of the then existing sewer tap fee.
      (2)   Sewer lines not existing. When a property owner within the town’s
requests sewer service, the Town Board of Aldermen may order the extension of
sewer main to serve the property and assess all abutting property owners an
amount equal to the total cost of constructing the line, but the assessments
shall not exceed the increase in property values resulting from extension of
service to the property. The town shall pay the cost of all intermediate pump
stations and force mains required on public property.
   (C)   Other conditions. When a subdivision or developer requests sewer
service and conditions in divisions (A) or (B) above do not apply, or if an
unusually large amount of construction is required, the conditions of payment
shall be determined through negotiations and established in a contract between
the property owner and Town Board of Aldermen.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)
§ 52.067  OUTDOOR PRIVIES AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful to construct, to maintain or to use any outdoor privy
or any device for collecting wastewater within the town’s limits or
extraterritorial jurisdiction which is not connected to the sewer system when
the sewer system abuts the property.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.068  EMPTYING WASTEWATER INTO STREAM AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   Wastewater shall not be emptied into a stream, ditch or other drainage
device in the extraterritorial jurisdiction limits of the town. All wastewater
from the town water system shall be discharged into the sanitary sewer system.
All storm water shall be discharged into the storm drainage system. Unpolluted
water (e.g., uncontaminated cooling water) may be discharged into the storm
sewer system with the approval of DEM.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)
§ 52.069  PROHIBITED DISCHARGES INTO SEWERS, GENERALLY.
   No person shall pour, throw or discharge any substance, either solid or
liquid, into any sanitary or storm sewer at any manhole or at any opening
therein other than a sewer connection, nor shall any person discharge into any
sanitary or storm sewer any substance likely to obstruct or to cause undue
injury to the same or any substance of a high causticity or of a sufficiently
acid nature to interfere materially with the equipment used in connection
therewith.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.070  SPECIFIED WATERS AND WASTES.
   (A)   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or
indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater which will interfere with the operation
or performance of the town POTW. These general prohibitions apply to all users
of a POTW whether or not the user is a significant industrial user or subject
to any national, state or local pretreatment standards or requirements or which
the town’s or the town’s Directors determines that a user is discharging the
wastewater, the town’s Director shall advise the user of the potential impact
of the discharge and develop effluent limitations for the discharge to protect
the POTW. A user shall not contribute the following substances to any POTW;
      (1)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the POTW which exceeds
40°C (104°F) unless the POTW treatment plant is designed to accommodate the
temperature;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes which may contain more than 100 parts per
million (ppm) by weight of fat, oil or grease, exclusive of soap;
      (3)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of the nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
POTW or to the operation of the POTW. At no time shall two successive readings
on an explosion hazard meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or at
any point in the system) be more than 5% nor any single reading over 10% of the
lower explosive limit (LEL) of the meter. Wastewater shall not have a closed
cup flashpoint of less than 140°F, using test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. §
261.21. Prohibited materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline,
kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones,
aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and
sulfides and any other substances which the town, state or EPA has notified the
user is a fire hazard or a hazard to the system;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances which may cause obstruction to the flow
in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities such as, but not limited to: floatable oil, garbage with particles
greater than one-half-inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch
manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshing, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes,
cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings,
grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood, plastics,
gas, tar, asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel or
lubricating oil, mud or glass grinding or polishing wastes;
      (5)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES and/or
state disposal system permit or the receiving water quality standards;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes having a stabilized pH lower than six or
having other corrosive property capable or causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
      (7)   Any wastewater containing pollutants in sufficient quantity, either
singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or interfere with any
wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create
a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the POTW or to exceed the limitation
set forth in a Categorical Pretreatment Standard;
      (8)   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case,
shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance
with sludge use or disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under
§ 405 of the Act; any criteria, guidelines or regulations affecting sludge use
or disposal developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air
Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act or state criteria applicable to the
sludge management method being used;
      (9)   Any waters or wastes which, when given normal plant treatment,
produce an effluent to the receiving stream which yields a color foreign to the
natural color of the stream at a point 250 feet or more below the effluent
outlet;
      (10)   Any pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like) released at a flow/rate and/or pollutant concentration which a user knows
or has reason to know will cause Interference to the POTW;
      (11)   Wastewater which constitutes as slug as defined herein will have a
surcharge;
      (12)   Wastewater with color which causes interference or prevents the
POTW from complying with NPDES permit or other state and federal regulations;
      (13)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of a character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle the
materials at the wastewater treatment plant;
      (14)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are sufficient to create a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for maintenance and repair;
      (15)   Holding tank waste; and
      (16)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a
half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the
Superintendent in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
   (B)   The town reserves the right to establish limitations and requirements
which are more stringent than those required by state or federal regulations.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.071  SPECIAL POLLUTANT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Certain discharges may be prohibited in the event the town’s Directors
determine it necessary to protect the POTW, receiving stream, or that the
discharge will not otherwise endanger lives, limbs, public property or
constitute a nuisance.
   (B)   Unless authorized by a permit issued under §
52.100(A) and (B), no person shall discharge wastewater containing pollutants
at levels which exceed the levels associated with domestic sewage.
   (C)   The Director may revise the limitations established in this section
if, in his or her opinion, different limitations are necessary to meet the
above objectives.
   (D)   Wastewater as described below shall not be discharged to the POTW
without the prior written approval of the Town Directors:
      (1)   Grease and oils:
         (a)   Wastewater containing more than 100 mg/l of oil or grease of
animal or vegetable origin; or
         (b)   Wastewater containing substances which may solidify or become
viscous at a temperature between 32°F and 150°F.
      (2)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the Director in compliance with applicable
state or federal regulations.
      (3)   Wastewater containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed.
      (4)   Wastewater having a pH higher than ten units.
      (5)   Wastewater with pollutants exceeding the following concentrations:
Parameters Limit (mg/l by Weight)
Parameters      Limit (mg/l by Weight)
BOD             250 mg/l
TSS             250 mg/l
COD             750 mg/l
Oil and grease  100 mg/l
TKN             40 mg/l
Arsenic         0.002 mg/l
Cadmium         0.002 mg/l
Chlorides       60 mg/l
Copper          0.04 mg/l
Cyanide         0.005 mg/l
Lead            0.01 mg/l
Mercury         0.0003 mg/l
Nickel          0.01 mg/l
Phenol          0.05 mg/l
Silver          0.002 mg/l
Total chromium  0.01 mg/l
Zinc            0.2 mg/l
Barium          1 mg/l
Iron            5 mg/l
Manganese       1 mg/l
Sulfate (total) 20 mg/l
Sulfides        10 mg/l
 
   (E)   Domestic sewage levels for pollutants not listed above shall be
determined by the Superintendent and shall be based on either actually measured
local domestic sewage levels or literature values.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)
§ 52.072  PRETREATMENT GENERALLY; SAND AND GREASE TRAPS.
   (A)   Any person discharging wastewater into the sewer system which exceeds
the limits established in this subchapter may be required to pretreatment
wastewater.
   (B)   See §§
52.100 through
52.103.
   (C)   Dischargers like car washes, restaurants and service stations which
normally discharge high concentrations of oil, grease or sand will be required
to construct sand and grease traps and to keep them cleaned out, so their
discharge into the sewer system will meet the limits established in this
division.
   (D)   The town’s Director may require construction of sand and grease traps
as necessary and must approve all plans prior to construction.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)
OPERATION OF SYSTEM; STORM WATER
§ 52.085  DISCHARGE INTO STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM.
   All water collected from rainfall shall be discharged into the public storm
drainage system. Wastewater from the town’s water system shall be discharged
into the sanitary sewer system only.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)
§ 52.086  EXTENSION OF STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM.
   At any location where no storm drains are available, the town will assist in
extending an existing line to serve the property. The person requesting the
line to be extended (property owner) shall purchase all materials necessary, as
determined by the town’s Director, and the town shall provide all required
labor and equipment to extend the storm drain line to a point in the right-of-
way, adjacent to the property. The property owner shall pay all costs in
constructing necessary lines from the public storm drain system to and within
his or her property.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)
INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER PRETREATMENT
§ 52.100  GENERALLY
   (A)   National categorical pretreatment standards.
      (1)   Upon the promulgation of pretreatment standards for an industrial
subcategory, each pretreatment standard, if more stringent than the
corresponding limitation imposed under this chapter for sources in that
subcategory, shall immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this
chapter.
      (2)   The town’s Director shall notify all affected users of the
applicable reporting requirements under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12.
      (3)   Upon approval by the DEM or EPA, and in accordance with 40 C.F.R. §
403.7, the town’s Director may revise any limitations in a pretreatment
standard to reflect the removal of pollutants by a POTW.
      (4)   Compliance with categorical pretreatment standards for existing
sources subject to the standards or for existing sources which hereafter become
subject to the standards shall be within three years following promulgation of
the standards unless a shorter compliance time is specified in the standard.
      (5)   Specific compliance schedules shall be developed by the Director
and made a part of the user’s discharge permit.
      (6)   Compliance with pretreatment standards for new sources shall be
required within 90 days of initiation of a discharge.
   (B)   Limitation on wastewater strength and flow rate. No person shall
discharge wastewater in excess of the concentration set forth in pretreatment
standards or his or her wastewater discharge permit. The town’s Directors shall
establish permit limitations on a case-by-case basis in accordance with DEM and
EPA regulations and an approved headworks analysis.
   (C)   Revision of limitations. The town’s Director may impose limitations
more stringent than the pretreatment standards, limitations contained in this
chapter, or limitations in wastewater discharge permits where it is necessary
to comply with the objectives of this chapter.
   (D)   Dilution prohibition. No user shall deliberately increase the use of
process water or, in any way, attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or
complete substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance with the
limitations contained in the pretreatment standards or other limitations
developed by the town or state.
   (E)   Pretreatment. Users shall provide pretreatment as required to comply
with this chapter or discharge permit, and shall achieve compliance with all
pretreatment standards within the specified time limitations. Any facilities
required to pretreat wastewater shall be constructed, operated and maintained
at the expense of the owner. Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities
and operating procedures shall be submitted to the town’s Directors. Submittal
of the plans and operating procedures will in no way relieve the user from the
responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent
acceptable under the provisions of this chapter. Any subsequent changes in the
pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported to the
Director prior to the initiation of the changes.
   (F)   Notification and requirements for abnormal conditions.
      (1)   Accidental discharge.
         (a)   Users shall provide protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this chapter.
         (b)   Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited
materials shall be provided and maintained at the expense of the owner.
         (c)   Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to
provide this protection shall be submitted to the town’s Directors for review,
and shall be approved before construction of the facility.
         (d)   No person who commences discharge to the POTW after the
effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter derives shall be
permitted to discharge until accidental discharge procedures have been approved
by both Directors.
         (e)   Review and approval of the plans and operating procedures shall
not relieve the responsibility to modify the facility as necessary to meet the
requirements of this chapter.
         (f)   In the case of an accidental discharge, it is the responsibility
of the user to immediately notify the town’s Directors of the incident.
         (g)   The notification shall include location of discharge, type of
waste, concentration and volume, and corrective actions.
         (h)   Within five days following an accidental discharge, the user
shall submit to the town’s Directors a detailed written report describing the
cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken to prevent similar future
occurrences.
         (i)   The notification shall not relieve the user of any expense,
loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred as a result of damage to
the wastewater system, fish kills or any other damage to person or property;
nor shall the notification relieve the user of any fines, civil penalties or
other liability which may be imposed by this section or other applicable law.
         (j)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin
board or other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of a
dangerous discharge.
         (k)   Employees shall ensure that all employees who may cause or
suffer such a dangerous discharge to occur are advised of the emergency
notification procedure.
      (2)   Upset provision.
         (a)   Any user which experiences an upset in operations which places
the user in a temporary state of noncompliance shall inform the town’s
Directors thereof immediately following first awareness of the commencement of
the upset.
         (b)   Where the information is given orally, a written follow-up
report thereof shall be filed by the user within five days.
         (c)   The report shall specify:
            1.   Description of the upset, the cause thereof and the expected
impact on the user’s compliance status;
            2.   Duration of noncompliance, including exact dates and times of
noncompliance, and if the noncompliance is continuing, the time by which
compliance is reasonably expected to occur; and
            3.   All steps taken or to be taken to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the upset or other conditions of noncompliance.
         (d)   A documented and verified operating upset, demonstrated as
required by 40 C.F.R. § 403.16 shall constitute an affirmative defense to any
enforcement action brought by the town’s Directors against the user for any
noncompliance with this chapter, or an order or permit issued hereunder, which
arises out of violations alleged to have occurred during the period of the
upset.
      (3)   Notice of process change/interruption of operation. Notice by the
user shall be given to the town’s Directors in advance or at the earliest
possible time when normal operations of the industry will be interrupted for 48
hours or longer, when wastewater will not be discharged, or prior to
implementation of a process change which will alter demands on the POTW.
      (4)   Bypass. Any user which bypasses treatment facilities as defined in
40 C.F.R. § 403.17 shall comply with the requirements of this section and
applicable state and federal regulations. An industrial user may allow any
bypass to occur which does not cause pretreatment standards or requirements to
be violated, but only if it also is for essential maintenance to assure
efficient operation.
         (a)   If an industrial user knows in advance of the need for a bypass,
it shall submit prior notice to the town’s Directors, if possible at least ten
days before the date of the bypass. An industrial user shall submit oral notice
of an unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards to
the Director within 24 hours from the time the industrial user becomes aware of
the bypass.
         (b)   A written submission shall also be provided within five days of
the time the industrial user becomes aware of the bypass. The written
submission shall contain a description of the bypass and its cause; the
duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and if the bypass has
not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue; and steps
taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent reoccurrence of the bypass.
The town’s Directors may waive the written report on a case-by-case basis if
the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
         (c)   Bypass is prohibited, and the town’s Director may take
enforcement action against an industrial user for a bypass, unless:
            1.   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury or severe properly damage;
            2.   There were not feasible alternative to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastewater or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgement to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventative maintenance; and
            3.   The industrial user submitted notices as required in this
section.
         (d)   The town’s Director may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects if the Director determines that it will meet
the three conditions listed in this section.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)
§ 52.101  DISCHARGE PERMITS AND REPORTING.
   (A)   Application requirements.
      (1)   Every user seeking a waste discharge or discharge modification
permit shall complete and file with first the town’s and then the town’s
Director an application, on a form prescribed by each Director, accompanied by
the necessary application fee. Each Director may further require that the
application include any additional information deemed necessary by the Director
in order to determine if pretreatment will be required to meet the conditions
and limitation of §
52.071 or to meet EPA/DEM pretreatment standards.
      (2)   The application for a waste discharge or discharge modification
permit shall first be reviewed by the town’s Director with regard to
availability of sewer service, capacity to serve, regulation of flow, and any
other parameter deemed necessary by the Town Board of Aldermen. Assuming that
all information provided by the applicant is acceptable, or conditionally
acceptable to the town’s Director, the Town Board of Aldermen may approve the
issuance of a letter of approval, or letter of conditional approval. The letter
shall be received by the applicant prior to his or her application to the town
and shall be a part of his or her application to the town.
      (3)   Upon approval, or conditional approval of the town’s Board of
Aldermen, any person desiring to discharge industrial wastewater shall complete
an official application and file it with the town. Approval shall be evidenced
by written notice from the town’s Director. The person shall provide all data
required by the current official application, copies of which shall be obtained
from the town’s Director. The town’s Director shall evaluate the data and may
require additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data
provided, the town’s Director may grant permission to discharge subject to the
terms and conditions provided herein. The town’s Director may issue a permit
with specific limitations different from those listed in tins chapter if he or
she determines that the discharge will otherwise comply with the remaining
provisions in this chapter. All significant industrial users shall obtain a
permit to discharge to the POTW. Authorized representatives of significant
industrial users shall sign the permit application. Significant industrial
users which through changes in the use of the premises or water usage cause a
significant change in wastewater volume, strength or characteristic shall
submit a new application to the town prior to making the change or alteration.
Applicable persons and users shall complete and submit an application,
accompanied by an application fee in the amount prescribed, including the
following information:
         (a)   Name, address and location (if different from the address);
         (b)   Applicable SIC number;
         (c)   Analytical data on wastewater constituents and characteristics,
including, but not limited to, those mentioned in this chapter;
         (d)   Time and duration of discharge;
         (e)   Average daily and 30-minute peak wastewater discharge rates,
including daily, monthly and seasonal variations if any;
         (f)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and
details to show all drains, sewers, sewer connections and appurtenances by the
size, location and (if available) elevation;
         (g)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be discharged;
         (h)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in
the wastewater which are limited by any town or state limitations, or
pretreatment standards, a statement regarding whether or not the person is
complying or will comply with pretreatment standards on a consistent basis and,
if not, whether additional pretreatment or operational modifications are
required to comply with applicable limitations or pretreatment standards;
         (i)   If additional pretreatment or operational modifications will be
required to comply with limitations or pretreatment standards, the shortest
schedule by which the person will comply;
         (j)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production;
         (k)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
         (l)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation of plant, and
proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment facilities; and
         (m)   Any other information as may be deemed by the town’s Directors
to be necessary to evaluate the permit application.
      (4)   The town’s Director shall review the application, conduct an on-
site inspection of the plant and any pretreatment facilities, and shall prepare
a written evaluation and tentative determination within 30 days to issue or
deny the permit. If the tentative determination is to issue the permit, the
town’s Director shall draft the permit in accordance with this chapter and
state regulations. A fact sheet providing a brief synopsis of the application
shall be prepared by the town’s Director for submission to the applicant, the
town, the DEM and to the public upon request. The contents of the fact sheets
shall include a sketch or detailed description of the process and pretreatment
facilities including the location of all points of discharge to the POTW and
all compliance monitoring points. The fact sheet shall also include the rate or
frequency of the proposed discharge, average daily flow, average daily
discharge in pounds of any limited pollutant and any pollutant identified in
the application as known or suspected to be present, and the basis for the
pretreatment limitations including the documentation of any calculations in
applying pretreatment standards, and all other information required by the
state.
   (B)   Hearings.
      (1)   Any person whose permit is denied, or is granted subject to
conditions he or she deems unacceptable, shall have the right to an
adjudicatory hearing before an appropriate hearing examiner designated by the
town’s Director upon making written demand, identifying the specific issues to
be contended, to the town’s Director within 30 days following receipt of the
permit. Unless the demand is made, the decision on the application shall be
final and binding.
      (2)   Any decision of a hearing examiner made as a result of an
adjudicatory hearing may be appealed to the town upon filing a written demand
within ten days of receipt of notice of the decision. Appeal hearings shall be
conducted in accordance with applicable provisions of the town’s regulations.
Any person against whom a final order or decision of the town is entered
pursuant to the appeal hearing may appeal the order or decision by registered
or certified mail to the appropriate general court of justice. Upon the appeal
the town shall send a certified transcript of all testimony and exhibits
introduced, the order or decision, and the notice of appeal to the general
court of justice.
   (C)   Permit modifications.
      (1)   Within nine months of the promulgation of a pretreatment standard,
the permit of users subject to the standards shall be revised to require
compliance with the standard within the time frame prescribed by the standard.
      (2)   Where a user, subject to a pretreatment standard, has not
previously submitted an application for a permit, the user shall apply for a
permit within 180 days after the promulgation of the pretreatment standard.
      (3)   In addition, the user with an existing permit shall submit to the
direct within 180 days after the promulgation of an applicable pretreatment
standard information regarding the nature and concentration of the regulated
pollutant and a schedule for providing additional pretreatment, if necessary.
      (4)   Modifications of permits shall be subject to the same procedural
requirements as the issuance of permits except as follows:
         (a)   Modifications of the monitoring program contained in the permit;
         (b)   Changes in the ownership of the discharge when no other change
in the permit is indicated;
         (c)   A single modification of any compliance schedule not in excess
of four months; or
         (d)   Modification of compliance schedules in permits for new sources
where the new source will not discharge until process or pretreatment
facilities are operational.
   (D)   Permit conditions.
      (1)   The town’s Director shall have the authority to grant a permit with
the conditions attached as he or she believes necessary to achieve the purpose
of town, state and federal regulations, but not in conflict with town code.
      (2)   The conditions shall include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   A statement of duration (in no case more than five years);
         (b)   A statement of non-transferability;
         (c)   Applicable effluent limits based on pretreatment standards or
limitations established by the Director;
         (d)   Applicable monitoring and reporting requirements;
         (e)   Notification requirements for slug discharges as defined by 40
C.F.R. § 403.5(b); and
         (f)   A statement of applicable penalties for violation of permit
conditions.
   (E)   Permit duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified tune period,
not to exceed five years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year
or may be stated to expire on a specific date. The user shall apply for permit
re-issuance of a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the permit.
   (F)   Permit transfer. Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific
user for a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be
reassigned or transferred or sold to a new owner, different premises, or a new
or changed operation.
   (G)   Reporting requirements for permittee.
      (1)   Within 180 days after the effective date of a pretreatment
standard, or 180 days after the final administrative decision made upon a
category determination submission under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6, whichever is later,
existing industrial users subject to the pretreatment standards shall be
required to submit to the town’s Director a report which contains the
information required in 40 C.F.R. § 403.12 and applicable state and federal
regulations. At least 90 days prior to commencement of discharge, new sources
and sources that become industrial users subsequent to the promulgation of an
applicable pretreatment standard, shall be required to submit to the town’s
Director a report which contains the information required in 40 C.F.R. §
403.12. The town’s Director shall require appropriate reporting from those
industrial users not subject to pretreatment standards. Reports required by
this chapter shall be signed by an authorized representative of the industrial
user.
      (2)   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with
applicable pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new source, following
commencement of the discharge of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject to
pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the town’s Director a
report containing the information required in 40 C.F.R. § 403.12.
      (3)   Any user subject to a pretreatment standard, after the compliance
date of the pretreatment standard, or, in the case of a new source, after
commencement of the discharge into the POTW, shall submit to the town’s
Director during the months of June and December, unless required more
frequently in the pretreatment standard or by the town’s Director, a report
indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in the effluent which are
limited by the pretreatment standards. In addition, this report shall include a
record of all measured average and maximum daily flows during the reporting
period. At the discretion of the town’s Director and in consideration of the
factors as local high or low flow rates, holidays, budget cycles and the like,
the town’s Director may agree to alter the months during which the above
reports are to be submitted. The town’s Director may impose mass limitations on
users which are using dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or
requirements, or in other cases where the imposition of mass limitations are
appropriate. In those cases, the required periodic reports shall indicate the
mass of pollutants regulated by pretreatment standards in the discharge of the
user. These reports shall contain the results of sampling and analysis of the
discharge, including the flow and the nature and concentration, or production
and mass where requested by the town’s Director, of pollutants contained
therein which are limited by the permit or applicable pretreatment standard.
      (4)   All users shall notify the town’s Director immediately of
discharges that could cause problems, including any slug discharges.
      (5)   Sampling and analysis may be performed by the town in lieu of the
user. Where the town performs the required sampling and analysis in lieu of the
user, the user shall not be required to submit the compliance certification
required under 40 C.F.R. §§ 403.12(b)(6) and 403.12(d). In addition, where the
town itself collects all the information required for the report, including
flow data, the user shall not be required to submit the report.
      (6)   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user
shall notify the town within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation. The
user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the
repeat analysis to the town’s Director within 30 days after becoming aware of
the violation, except the user may not be required to resample if the town
performs sampling of the discharge at a frequency of at least once per month,
or the town performs sampling between the time when the user performs its
initial sampling and the time when the user receives the results of this
sampling.
      (7)   If a user subject to these reporting requirements monitors any
pollutant more frequently than required by the town’s Director, the results of
this monitoring shall be included in the report.
      (8)   The town’s Director shall require appropriate reporting from those
users with discharges that are not subject to pretreatment standards.
Significant industrial users shall submit to the town’s Directors at least once
every six months (on dates specified by the town’s Director) a description of
the nature, concentration, and flow of the pollutants required to be reported
by the town’s Director. This sampling and analysis may be performed by the town
in lieu of the significant non-categorical industrial user. Where the town
itself collects all the information required for the report, the significant
industrial user shall not be required to submit the report.
      (9)   Industrial users shall promptly notify the town’s Directors in
advance of any substantial change in the volume or character of pollutants in
their discharge, including the listed or characteristic hazard wastes for which
the industrial user has submitted initial notification under 40 C.F.R. §
403.12.
         (a)   Industrial users shall notify the town’s Directors, the EPA
Regional Waste Management Division Director, and state hazardous waste
authorities in writing of any discharge of a substance, which, if otherwise
disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40 C.F.R. part 261. The
notification must include the name of the hazardous waste as set forth in 40
C.F.R. part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the type of discharge
(continuous, batch or other).
         (b)   If the industrial user discharges more than 100 kilograms of the
waste per calendar month to the POTW, the notification shall also contain the
following information to the extent the information is known and readily
available to the industrial user:
            1.   An identification of the hazardous constituents contained in
the wastes;
            2.   An estimation of the mass and concentration of the
constituents in the wastewater discharged during that calendar month; and
            3.   An estimation of the mass of constituents in the wastewater
expected to be discharged during the following 12 months.
         (c)   Industrial users shall provide the notification no later than
180 days after the discharge of the listed or characteristic hazardous waste.
Notification need be submitted only once for each hazardous waste discharge.
However, notifications of changed discharges must be submitted to the town as
required under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(j). The notification requirement does not
apply to pollutants already reported under the self-monitoring requirements of
40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b), (d) and (e). Users are exempt from the requirements
during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15 kilograms of
hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specified in
40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15 kilograms of
non-acute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity of acute
hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires
a one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the industrial user
discharges more than the quantities of any hazardous waste do not require
additional notification.
      (10)   In the case of any new regulations under § 3001 of RCRA
identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any
additional substance as a hazardous waste, the industrial user must notify the
town’s Directors, the EPA regional waste management division Director, and
state hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of the substance within 90
days of the effective date of the regulations.
      (11)   In the case of any notification, the industrial user shall certify
that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity of hazardous
wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be economically practical.
      (12)   The reports and other documents required to be submitted or
maintained under this section shall be subject to the provisions of 18 U.S.C. §
1001 relating to fraud and false statements; the provisions of § 309(c)(4) of
the Act, as amended, governing false statements, representation or
certification; and the provisions of § 309(c) regarding responsible corporate
officers.
   (H)   User records. Users shall maintain and retain for three years all
plant records as specified by the Director and afford the town access thereto.
These records include but are not limited to wastewater self-monitoring
records, records related to compliance with pretreatment standards, and other
state and EPA required records.
   (I)   Confidentiality. Information and data on a user obtained from reports,
questionnaires, discharge applications and monitoring programs and from
inspections shall be available to the public or other governmental agency
without restriction unless the user specifically requests and is able to
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the town’s Director that the release of the
information would divulge information, processes or methods of production
entitled to protection as trade secrets of the user. When requested by the
person furnishing the report, the portions of a report which might disclose
trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made available for inspection by
the public. It shall, however, be made available upon written request to
governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the NPDES permit, or
other uses determined appropriate by the town’s Director. The information shall
be available for use by the state in judicial review or enforcement proceedings
involving the person furnishing the Information. Wastewater constituents and
characteristics shall not be recognized as confidential information.
Information accepted as confidential shall not be given to any governmental
agency until and unless a ten-day notification is given to the user.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)
§ 52.102  SAMPLING AND MONITORING.
   (A)   Right of entry. Whenever it shall be necessary for the purposes of
this chapter and upon presentation of proper credentials and identification,
town, state and EPA personnel shall be permitted to enter upon any property of
users for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling or
testing in the area of the control structure. Any user completing and filing an
application to discharge wastewater shall thereby grant the town permission to
enter his or her premises for those purposes. Where a user has security
measures in force which would require proper identification and clearance
before entry into his, her or their premises, the user shall make necessary
arrangements with his, her or their security guards so that upon presentation
of suitable identification, town personnel shall be permitted to enter, without
delay, for the purposes of performing their specific responsibilities.
   (B)   Compliance determination. Compliance determinations with respect to
prohibitions and limitations shall be made on the basis of composite or
discrete (grab or instantaneous) samples of wastewater. Composite samples may
be taken over a 24-hour period, or over a different time span, as determined
necessary by the Director to meet the needs of specific circumstances.
   (C)   Analysis of industrial wastewaters. All measurements, tests and
analyses of the characteristics or properties of wastewater to which reference
is made in this chapter shall be made in accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 136 and
shall be performed by a qualified laboratory. If there is no approved method in
to 40 C.F.R. part 136 for a particular parameter, testing shall be performed in
accordance with standard methods, herein defined, or a method approved by the
town’s Director.
   (D)   Sampling frequency. Sampling of industrial wastewater for the purpose
of compliance determination with respect to prohibitions and limitations shall
be done at intervals as the town’s Director may designate. However, it is the
intention of the town to conduct compliance sampling or to cause the sampling
to be conducted for all significant industrial users at least twice in every
one-year period.
   (E)   Control structure. When required by the town’s Director, the owner of
any property served by a building sewer carrying industrial wastewater shall
build a control structure in the building sewer from his or her premises just
prior to the entrance of the building sewer into the public sewer suitable for
sampling and measuring his or her wastewater. Plans for this structure shall be
approved by the town’s Directors. There shall be ample room in or near the
sampling facility to allow accurate flow measurement, sampling and preparation
of samples for analysis. The facility, sampling and measuring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition at the
expense of the owner.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)
§ 52.103  ENFORCEMENT BY TOWN.
   (A)   Enforcement management strategy. The town’s Director shall enforce the
provisions of this chapter in accordance with the current enforcement
management strategy, which shall be reviewed and updated at least annually by
the town’s Director. Remedies described in this section shall be available to
the Director at any time during enforcement proceedings, including before and
after adjudicatory hearings. Procedures for an adjudicatory hearing are
contained in the enforcement management strategy. The town’s Director may
appoint one or more hearing examiners for an adjudicatory hearing. The hearing
examiner may be an employee of the town or acting on behalf of the town
pursuant to a special appointment for the purposes of acting as a hearing
examiner. The hearing examiner shall not have any connection with the
preparation or presentation of evidence for the hearing for which he or she is
hearing examiner.
   (B)   Notification of violation.
      (1)   Whenever the town’s Director finds that any person has violated or
is violating this chapter, a permit or any prohibition, limitation or
requirements contained in the chapter or permit, the town’s Director may serve
upon the person written or verbal notice stating the nature of the violation. A
written notice shall be served when the town’s Director requires a response to
the notice of violation. When required in the notice and within 30 days from
the date of the notice, a plan for the satisfactory correction thereof shall be
submitted to the town’s Directors. Submission of this plan does not relieve the
person of liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the
notice of violation.
      (2)   The town’s Director shall annually publish in the largest local
daily newspaper a list of the users which were in significant noncompliance.
Significant noncompliance is a violation which represents a chronic or
technical review criteria in 40 C.F.R. § 403.8; which involves a failure to
comply with compliance schedule milestones contained in permits, consent
agreements or administrative orders; which involves a failure to accurately
report noncompliance; which the town’s Director believes has caused
interference; which has caused imminent endangerment to human health or welfare
or to the environment; which involves a failure to comply with the reporting
requirements in discharge permits, this chapter, or applicable regulations;
which resulted in the town exercising its emergency authority; or which the
town’s Director determines adversely affects the operation of the pretreatment
program. The notification shall also summarize any enforcement actions taken
against the user during the same 12 months. All records relating to compliance
with pretreatment standards shall be made available to officials of the DEM and
EPA.
   (C)   Consent agreements. The town’s Director are hereby empowered to enter
into consent agreements, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar
documents establishing an agreement with the person responsible for the
violation. The agreements shall include specific action to be taken by the
person to correct the violation within a time period also specified by the
agreements. Consent agreements shall have the same force and effect as an
administrative order issued pursuant to §
52.103(E).
   (D)   Show cause hearing. The town’s Director may order any user who causes
or is responsible for an unauthorized discharge or other violations to show
cause why a proposed enforcement action should not be taken. A notice shall be
served on the user specifying the time and place for the hearing, the proposed
enforcement action, and the reasons for the action, and a request that the user
show cause why this proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice
of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail
(return receipt requested) at least ten days before the hearing. Service may be
made on any agent or officer of the user. At any hearing held pursuant to this
chapter, testimony taken shall be under oath and recorded stenographically. The
transcript, so recorded, shall be made available to any member of the public or
any party of the hearing upon payment of the usual charges thereof. After the
town’s Director has reviewed the evidence, he or she may issue an order to the
user directing that, following a specified time period, permission to discharge
be revoked unless adequate facilities, devices or other related appurtenances
shall have been installed and are properly operated. Further orders and
directives as are necessary and appropriate may be issued. The Director may
appoint a hearing examiner to conduct the hearing and make the determination,
and the determination shall be delivered to the Director and user.
   (E)   Administrative orders. When the town’s Director finds that a user has
violated or is violating the prohibitions or limitations of this chapter, or
those contained in any permit issued hereunder, the town’s Director may issue
an order to cease and desist, and direct those persons in violation to:
      (1)   Comply forthwith;
      (2)   Comply in accordance with a compliance time schedule set forth in
the order; or
      (3)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action in the event of a
continuing or threatened violation.
   (F)   Emergency suspensions. The town may suspend or revoke a user’s
permission to discharge when the action is necessary in order to stop an actual
or threatened discharge which presents or may present an imminent or
substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or the
environment, or causes interference. Any user notified of revocation of
permission to discharge shall immediately stop or eliminate its discharge. A
hearing shall be held within 15 days of the notice of revocation to determine
whether the suspension may be lifted or the user’s permit terminated. The user
shall submit a detailed written statement describing the causes of the
violations and the measures taken to prevent any future violations to the
town’s Director prior to the date of the hearing. In the event of a failure of
the person to comply voluntarily with the order, the town’s Director shall take
the steps as deemed necessary including immediate severance of the sewer
connection. The Director may reinstate the permission to discharge upon proof
of the elimination of the violations.
   (G)   Termination of permit.
      (1)   Any user who violates the conditions of this chapter, or applicable
state and federal regulations, is subject to having his or her permission to
discharge revoked. The town’s Director may revoke a permit for the following
reasons:
         (a)   Failure to factually report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his or her discharge;
         (b)   Failure to report significant changes in operations, or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
         (c)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the
purpose of inspection and monitoring;
         (d)   Violation of conditions of a permit or this chapter;
         (e)   Tampering with or deliberately altering monitoring equipment;
         (f)   Changes in POTW NPDES permit, receiving stream water quality
standards, POTW treatment plant process, sludge disposal practices or
requirements or other modifications of a similar nature that impact the town’s
ability to accept industrial wastewater;
         (g)   For causes necessitating an emergency suspension;
         (h)   Failure to show cause; or
         (i)   Nonpayment of water or sewer user charges.
      (2)   A user whose permission to discharge has been revoked may apply for
new permission to discharge and shall pay all delinquent fees, charges,
penalties and other sums as may be due to the town.
   (H)   Judicial remedies. If any person discharges wastewater contrary to the
provisions of this chapter or any order or permit issued hereunder, or
otherwise violates provisions of this chapter or any order or permit issued
hereunder, the Director, through the town’s attorney, may commence an action
for appropriate legal or equitable relief in the appropriate general court of
justice.
   (I)   Injunctive relief. Whenever a person is in violation of the provisions
of this chapter or any order or permit issued hereunder, the town’s Director
through the town’s attorney, may petition the court for the issuance of a
preliminary or permanent injunction, or both as may be appropriate, which
restrains or compels the activities in question. If the town chooses to correct
the violation itself, the cost of the correction may be added to the next
scheduled service charge payable by the person causing the violation. The town
shall have remedies for the collection of the costs as it has for the
collection of other user charges.
   (J)   Criminal violations.
      (1)   Any person who willfully or negligently violates any provision of
this chapter, or any orders, rules, regulations or permits issued hereunder
shall be, upon conviction, guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine or
imprisonment as allowed by applicable state statutes. No person shall
maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface
or tamper with any structure, appurtenances or equipment winch is a part of the
wastewater disposal system. Any person violating this provision shall be
subject to immediate arrest, and upon conviction, guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by an appropriate fine or imprisonment, or both. In addition, the
person shall be liable to reimburse the town for any damages resulting from the
violations.
      (2)   Any person who knowingly makes any false statements,
representations or certifications in any application, record, report, plan or
other document submitted or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter,
or permit, or who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any
monitoring device or method required under this chapter, shall, upon
conviction, be punished by a fine as allowed by applicable state statute.
   (K)   Performance bonds. The town may refuse to reissue a permit to any user
which has failed to comply with the provisions of this chapter or any order or
previous permit issued hereunder unless the user first files with it a
satisfactory bond, payable to the town, in a sum not to exceed a value
determined by the town’s Director to be necessary to achieve consistent
compliance.
   (L)   Discontinuance of water or sewer service. At the town’s Directors’
request, the town shall have the right to discontinue water or sewer service to
the property of a user of the service in the event of nonpayment of sewer
charges; provided that no discontinuation shall be made until the user shall
have been given notice of his or her right to be heard in person or by counsel
on the question of discontinuation before the town or any person designated by
the town after not less than five-days’ written notice specifying the basis of
the discontinuation. Any user whose permit has been terminated or who has
failed to pay the user charge or any other charge imposed by the town shall be
subject to termination of service by disconnection of the property from the
sewer service. The town shall have the right of entry in and upon the premises
and the right of ingress and egress to determine the location of the service
line or to dig it up or to uncover it for the purpose of disconnecting the
service line from the property, or sealing, or plugging the line, or any
collection line, upon the notice as provided under the town’s regulations.
   (M)   Damages. If a public sewer becomes obstructed or damaged because of
any substances improperly discharged into it, the person responsible for the
discharge shall be billed and shall pay for the expenses incurred by the town
in cleaning out, repairing, or rebuilding the sewer as well as damages incurred
by the town arising from claims of private property owners which are caused by
the obstruction or damage.
   (N)   Compliance responsibility. The town’s Superintendent shall be
responsible for implementing the pretreatment program and for sampling and
analyses required in wastewater discharge permits to be performed by the town.
Analyses shall be performed by a qualified laboratory. The Superintendent shall
inform the town’s Directors of any violations of discharge limitations. The
Superintendent shall be responsible for assuring that industrial users comply
with reporting requirements, and for enforcement actions. The Superintendent
shall be responsible for all administrative actions such as the submission of
reports, industrial inspections, periodic survey update and issuing permits.
   (O)   Enforcement management strategy generally.
      (1)   The enforcement mechanisms for limitations and requirements is
outlined in this chapter. The town’s Directors are empowered to enforce permit
and regulation provisions. It shall be reviewed annually by the Director to
determine the effectiveness and reasonableness for various situations requiring
enforcement.
      (2)   Once a violation is identified, the town’s Directors shall be
advised of the nature of the violation. The Superintendent may authorize demand
monitoring in the event the violation is of a discharge limitation or which
resulted in an upset or violation of water quality standards. The
Superintendent shall notify the industry of all violations and the additional
enforcement actions, if any, the Superintendent intends to take regarding the
violation. All notifications shall be to the designated industrial contract.
      (3)   If the violation is caused by a discharge that is of immediate
danger to public health, or has resulted in observed damage to the wastewater
system or receiving stream, then the notice shall be sent immediately and shall
include a requirement to immediately cease the discharge. A hearing shall be
held within 15 days of the notice of suspension or revocation of permission to
discharge. The town’s Director may consider termination of service depending on
the response and the circumstances or if the user does not provide evidence
that similar events will not occur in the future. Ordinarily, this evidence
should include actual or proposed modifications to manufacturing processes,
spill prevention plan, pretreatment facilities or other practices that
contributed to the violation.
      (4)   For other violations, the notice of violation (NOV) shall be a
letter sent or phone call to the authorized representative of the user within
15 days after the violation is noted. A response from the industrial user (IU)
may be required, within 30 days, that explains the cause of the violation and a
schedule for when the violation will be corrected. If the Superintendent does
not receive a response or receives an inadequate response to a notice of
violation for which a response was required, a notice of significant
noncompliance shall then be issued.
      (5)   A notice of significant noncompliance shall be sent by mail within
ten days of determination of its need. A notice of significant noncompliance
shall also be sent to the industrial user in the event of reporting and other
violations as indicated in this chapter. The town’s Director may also impose a
penalty. A response shall be required within 15 days explaining the cause of
and how the industrial user intends to correct the situation. If compliance can
be achieved in less than 90 days, the Superintendent may require the industrial
user to propose and submit a 90-day schedule of compliance. If the industrial
user indicates that corrective action will take longer than 90 days, the
Superintendent shall (unless an administrative order is issued) require the
industrial user to request a consent agreement. (The Superintendent may issue
an administrative order (AO) with or following the first notice of significant
noncompliance.) If the Superintendent does not receive a response to this
notice, the industrial user shall be issued a second notice of significant
noncompliance.
      (6)   A second notice of significant noncompliance shall be sent by
certified mail within ten days of the required response date to the first
notice. This notice shall include a penalty, in an amount as set by the Board
from time to time. Response to the second notice shall be required within 15
days. If no response is received, then the Superintendent shall impose
penalties in an amount as set by the Board from time to time for each day the
violation continues and no response is received to the second notice of
significant noncompliance. If a response is not received, then penalties shall
commence ten days following the date of the second notice of significant
noncompliance. The only acceptable response from the industrial user shall be
payment of the penalty and a request for a consent agreement.
      (7)   The industrial user shall request a consent agreement if required
by the Superintendent, if it cannot achieve compliance in 90 days, or in
response to a second notice of significant noncompliance. Once the request for
a consent agreement is made, the Superintendent shall set up a meeting with the
industrial user and negotiate an enforceable compliance schedule. The
Superintendent shall sign the agreements.
      (8)   If an industrial user fails to return to compliance after being
issued a consent agreement, or fails to respond to a second notice of
significant noncompliance, the Superintendent shall issue a notice to comply
and impose a penalty in an amount as set by the Board from time to time on the
noncompliant or non-responsive industry. This notice to comply shall be sent by
certified mail within 15 days of determining that conditions of the consent
agreement have not been met, or within 15 days after the second notice of
significant noncompliance has been issued and no response has been received.
      (9)   An administrative order shall be issued to industrial users that
respond to a notice to comply. The administrative order may contain an
enforceable schedule of compliance, which may be negotiated with the industrial
user. An administrative order may be issued after the first or second notices
of significant noncompliance. An administrative order may also be issued
following show cause hearings, when the industry can demonstrate cause, to
implement a new compliance schedule. The response time for issuing an
administrative order may vary because of the development of a compliance
schedule, but the administrative order process shall begin immediately
following the industrial user’s response to a notice to comply or the
demonstration of cause in a show cause hearing.
      (10)   If an industrial user fails to respond to a notice to comply, or
fails to achieve compliance with a consent agreement or an administrative
order, the Superintendent may issue a notice to show cause. Procedures for show
cause hearings are delineated in the chapter and shall be applied in the cases.
The town’s Director may conduct the show cause hearing.
      (11)   The town’s Director has the options of assessing penalties or
terminating water or sewer service in instances where an industrial user fails
to respond to a notice to comply, fails to comply with a consent agreement or
an administrative order, or fails to demonstrate cause at a show cause hearing.
A decision to terminate service is a serious one, but the town’s Director
should make it known to the industrial user the willingness to take this step
if less radical attempts to achieve the aims of the pretreatment program are
not successful.
      (12)   Judicial remedies are outlined in this chapter. These procedures
are generally reserved for a non-responsive industrial user, or in situations
where the industrial user has willfully submitted false information or
committed other acts of a criminal nature. As with termination of service, it
should be clear that judicial action is always available and may be implemented
as indicated in this chapter.
   (P)   Adjudicatory hearings.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         ADJUDICATORY HEARING.  A hearing that is held pursuant to this section
for a contested case. ADJUDICATORY HEARINGS are trial-type proceedings where
there is to be a determination made in a contested case pursuant to the powers
of the town. The procedures contained herein shall be used for any adjudicatory
hearing pursuant to any statutory or regulatory power of the town. The
procedures contained herein are not applicable to other hearings which do not
conform to the definition of ADJUDICATORY HEARINGS.
         CONTESTED CASE.  An adjudicatory hearing as part of a final decision
of the town pursuant to the town’s licensing power in which rights, duties or
privileges of a party are required by a law or regulation to be determined
after an opportunity for hearing.
         LICENSE.  The whole or part of any permit, certificate, approval,
registration, charter or similar form of permission required by law including
franchises, but it does not include a license required solely for revenue
purposes. LICENSING shall mean the process respecting the grant, denial,
renewal, revocation, suspension, annulment, withdrawal or amendment of a
license.
         PARTY.  Each person named or admitted as a party or properly seeking
and entitled as a right to be admitted as a party.
         VIOLATION.  Any violation of the regulations of the town or their
permits or law, regulation or any court or administrative order which the town
is required to enforce.
      (2)   Requests for an adjudicatory hearing shall be served on the town
within 15 days following any final administrative decision by the town on an
application, permit, certificate or other licensing matter or on a violation
which is a contested case as defined above. Requests for adjudicatory hearings
shall include the name of the requestor, his or her interest and the names of
parties which he or she represents, the reasons for the request, the major
issues which are proposed to be contested at the hearing, and a statement of
agreement by the requestor to be subject to examination and cross-examination
and to make any employee or consultant of the requestor or other person
represented by the requestor available for examination and cross-examination at
the expense of the requestor. The town’s Director may grant or deny a request
for an adjudicatory hearing on the basis of a consideration of whether the
person making the request has standing to seek a determination under the
definition of contested case and other pertinent definitions under this
chapter.
      (3)   An initial pleading as used herein shall refer to any paper or
document by which an adjudicatory hearing may be commenced. The papers or
documents shall include, but not be limited to, applications, petitions,
charges, complaints and appeals, rule to show cause notices, and public hearing
notices which comply with the following provisions. Every initial pleading
shall, at a minimum, contain the following:
         (a)   A title which indicates the nature of the proceeding and the
parties involved therein;
         (b)   The complete name and address of the party filing the pleadings
and if applicable, the organization or interest whom he or she represents;
         (c)   The legal authority and the jurisdictional basis for the
hearing;
         (d)   A clear and concise statement of the issues upon which the
pleading is maintained and identification of the particular regulation,
standard, guideline or provision of law which is the subject of the hearing; if
the party is unable to state the matters in detail at the time of the initial
pleading or other notice is served, the initial pleading or other notice may be
limited to a simple statement of the issues involved. Thereafter, upon
application, a more definite and detailed statement shall be furnished to all
parties;
         (e)   A prayer setting forth the relief sought;
         (f)   If the party filing the pleading is represented by counsel, the
name and address of the attorney;
         (g)   An agreement by the requestor to be subject to examination and
cross-examination and to make any employee or consultant of the requestor
available for examination and cross-examination at the expense of the requestor
or the person upon the request of the hearing examiner, on his or her own
motion, or on the motion of any party.
      (4)   Any party, including the town, may serve on the hearing examiner,
if one has been appointed, or on the town, if a hearing examiner has not yet
been appointed, an answer to the initial pleading within ten days after service
of the document to which the answer is directed unless additional time is
required pursuant to provisions of this section. Allegations contained in the
initial pleading which are not specifically admitted by the party filing an
answer are deemed denied. The answer shall contain, but not be limited to, the
following:
         (a)   A clear and concise statement identifying the party filing the
answer and the matter to which the answer relates; and
         (b)   A clear and concise statement of all matters upon which the
party filing the answer relies.
      (5)   There shall be no replies other than an answer.
      (6)   Leave to file amendments to any pleading may be allowed or denied;
provided, however, leave to amend shall be freely given when justice requires
it.
      (7)   A party desiring to withdraw a pleading filed with the town or the
hearing examiner shall file a motion for withdrawal. If any party has an
objection thereto, he or she shall, within ten days after the receipt of the
motion, serve a statement on the hearing examiner setting forth the reasons for
his or her objection and serve a copy of the same on each party. In the absence
of objections or a request for a hearing, a motion of withdrawal shall, within
ten days after filing thereof, be deemed allowed. The hearing examiner shall
then file an order of dismissal, with or without prejudice, to the party
requesting the withdrawal within the sole discretion of the hearing examiner.
WITH PREJUDICE shall mean that the party receiving the dismissal shall not
enter the proceedings as a party, but can be called as a witness.
      (8)   Where a party makes a reasonable showing that he or she cannot
frame an answer to the initial pleading based upon the allegations as they
appear in the initial pleading, he or she may, at any time prior to the time
within which the answer must be filed, move for a more definite statement of
the allegations. The motion shall identify the defects complained of or the
details desired. The hearing examiner may grant or deny the motions as justice
requires and a more definite statement shall be served within ten calendar days
of being notified that a more definite statement is required.
      (9)   Service by the town of complaints, orders, decisions, pleadings,
motions, processes and other documents shall be by personal delivery or by
first-class mail. Service on the town, or hearing examiner shall be by filing
two copies of the paper with the Town of Grimesland, P.O. Box 147, 113 Pitt
Street, Grimesland, N.C. 27837, and Greenville Utilities Commission, P.O. Box
1847, Martin Luther King, Jr. Blvd., Greenville, N.C. 27835. All papers,
including but not limited to applications, notices, pleadings, petitions,
motions, briefs, memoranda and other documents, filed by any party with the
town and/or the hearing examiner shall be served by personal delivery or by
first-class mail upon all parties to the proceedings. A certificate of service
shall accompany all papers when filed by any party, including the town, and
shall be filed within ten days after service is made.
      (10)   The hearing examiner may, on motion, at any time during the course
of any proceeding, permit the substitutions of parties as justice or
convenience may require.
      (11)   In the discretion of the hearing examiner, any person not a party
may be permitted to intervene in any action or proceeding. A person or party
desiring to intervene shall file a motion which shall state therein the grounds
for intervention. Any request for intervention may be granted if that request
or motion meets the requirements previously outlined. A motion for leave to
intervene or a request for intervention in a hearing shall be filed prior to
the commencement of the hearing or any pre-hearing conferences which may be
conducted prior to the hearing. Any motion filed after that time shall contain,
in addition to the information required above, a statement of good cause for
the failure to file the motion prior to the commencement of the proceedings,
and shall be granted only upon a finding that extraordinary circumstances
justify the granting of the motion; and that the intervener shall be bound by
all agreements, arrangements and other matters previously made in the
proceedings.
      (12)   The hearing examiner shall observe the rules of evidence observed
by the court with the exception that hearsay evidence may be admissible
provided that it is deemed necessary to ascertain facts not reasonably
susceptible of proof without the evidence and the hearsay evidence is properly
identified as such and is given appropriate consideration in reaching a
determination, and shall observe rules of privilege recognized by law. The
hearing examiner shall make rulings of admissibility, which shall be noted on
the record. Irrelevant, immaterial or unduly repetitious evidence shall be
excluded. All testimony shall be taken under oath and all parties shall have
the right to cross-examination of the witnesses. The hearing examiner shall
exclude hearsay evidence when the testimony would violate fundamental fairness.
      (13)   Official notice may be taken of such matters as might be
judicially noticed by the courts, and in addition, notice may be taken of
general, technical or scientific facts within the party’s specialized
knowledge; provided, that any party shall on timely request be afforded an
opportunity to contest by oral argument the matters of which official notice is
to be taken.
      (14)   Formal exceptions to rulings on evidence and procedures are
unnecessary. It is sufficient that a party, at a time that a ruling of the
hearing examiner is made or sought, makes known to the hearing examiner the
action which he or she desires taken or his or her objections to actions, and
his or her grounds for objection.
      (15)   The hearing examiner and all other parties, through the hearing
examiner, shall have the right to issue subpoenas requiring the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of any documents in question in the
proceeding; provided, however, that where the issuance of such a subpoena is
resisted or contested, the hearing examiner shall rule on the availability of
the subpoena in that particular case.
      (16)   A party may file a motion for the production or view of any object
which relates to the subject matter of any proceeding then pending before the
hearing examiner. The motion shall be granted where justice requires.
      (17)   Any time during the course of the proceeding, the hearing examiner
may order that testimony of a witness be taken by deposition. Application to
take testimony by deposition shall be made by motion directed to the hearing
examiner. The motion shall set forth the reasons for desiring the deposition,
the time when, the place where, and the name and address of each witness, and
the subject matter concerning which each witness is expected to testify. The
hearing examiner shall allow the motion only upon a showing that circumstances
are such that witness to be deposed cannot appear before the hearing examiner
without substantial hardship being caused. If the hardship is financial in
nature, any party may agree to reimburse the witness for expenses, including
loss of wages incurred by appearing; and in such cases, the motion to allow
taking of a deposition shall therefore be denied. Motions for the taking of
depositions shall not be allowed if the depositions result in any undue burden
to another party or in any undue delay of the proceeding. If the motion is
allowed, the hearing examiner shall give at least five days’ notice of the
taking of the depositions to all parties. Depositions shall be taken orally
before a person having power to administer oaths. Each witness testifying upon
deposition shall be duly sworn, and the adverse party shall have the right to
cross-examine. Objections to questions shall be in short form, stating the
grounds of objections relied upon. The questions asked, the answers thereto,
and all objections shall be reduced to writing, and certified by the officer
before whom the deposition is taken. The officer shall forward the deposition
to the hearing examiner. Subject to appropriate rulings on evidence, the
testimony taken as deposition shall be included in the record of the hearing as
if the testimony contained therein had been given by the witness in the
presence of the hearing examiner. After notice is served for taking a
deposition, upon motion, made prior to the date set for the taking by any party
or by the person to be examined, the hearing examiner may, for good cause
shown, order that the deposition shall not be taken; that certain matters shall
not be inquired into; or that the scope of the examination shall be limited to
certain matters. The hearing examiner may make any other order necessary to
protect the party or witness from harassment or oppression.
      (18)   The parties may by stipulation in writing file with the hearing
examiner at any stage of the proceeding, or orally made at that hearing, agree
upon any pertinent facts in the proceedings. Contested cases may be resolved by
informal disposition through means of stipulation, agreed settlement, consent
agreement (with or without a financial penalty) or default.
      (19)   The hearing examiner, after all preliminary matters have been
disposed of, shall notify all parties and interveners of the precise time, date
and place of the scheduled hearing. This notification shall be served at least
no less than ten days prior to the hearing on all parties and interveners, and
there shall be public notice in all cases where there has not been a previous
public notice during the permission granting process.
      (20)   The hearing shall be conducted by the hearing examiner. All
testimony given at the hearing shall be under oath. The moving or complaining
party shall present his or her evidence or testimony first. After the evidence
and testimony of the complaining or moving parties have been received, all
other parties shall be allowed to present their evidence or testimony. The
staff shall make its presentation last. All parties, other than the party
introducing the testimony, shall be allowed to cross-examine any witness
immediately after his or her testimony has been received and there shall be
opportunity for all parties to reply. All parties, counsel, witnesses and other
persons present at a hearing shall conduct themselves in a manner consistent
with the standards of decorum commonly observed in the courts of this state.
Where the decorum is not observed, the hearing examiner may take action as he
or she finds appropriate. The hearing examiner may cross-examine any witness
and may make requests of any party with regard to the submission of additional
information, records, exhibits, or photographs.
      (21)   All proceedings in a pending case shall be recorded by sound or be
officially reported by a stenographer appointed for that purpose. The oral
proceedings or party thereof shall be transcribed upon request of any party. If
there is no such request, the oral proceedings may be presented to the town in
summary form to accompany the determination of the hearing examiner.
      (22)   A party shall have the right before the close of the hearing to
argue orally, but the hearing examiner may impose reasonable limitations upon
the length of the argument. The hearing examiner may in his or her discretion
permit additional oral argument at any time after the close of the hearing and
before the determination is made, provided all parties are given reasonable
opportunity to be heard.
      (23)   Briefs may be filed by a party or any interested persons before,
during or after the course of a hearing, if served within ten days of the last
day of hearing, either on their own volition or upon request of the hearing
examiner. Except where requested by the hearing examiner, failure to file a
brief shall in no way prejudice the rights of any party. There shall be no
right to file reply briefs; however, reply briefs may be authorized by the
hearing examiner in extraordinary circumstances. Parties shall be allowed the
opportunity to present to the hearing examiner proposed findings of facts and
conclusions of law and proposed exceptions to allegations or testimony of
another party or rulings of the hearing examiner.
      (24)   Any party may, at any time prior to the rendering of a
determination by the hearing examiner, move that the hearing be reopened for
the purpose of receiving new evidence. In addition, the hearing examiner may,
at any time prior to rendering his or her determination, reopen the hearing on
his or her own motion. In the case of the reopening of the hearing, the parties
shall be notified and the hearing shall not be convened less than ten days
after service of the notice.
      (25)   On the basis of the evidence presented, the hearing examiner may
issue the determination as an initial decision or may refer the record to the
town without a written recommendation. If an initial decision is prepared it
shall consist of a written statement to the town recommending affirmation,
modification or denial of the administrative decision involved. The hearing
examiner shall deliver by certified mail to the parties a copy of the
transcript or summary of the record and the initial decision, including
findings of fact and conclusions of law as well as the reasons for the
recommendation in the matter.
      (26)   After a determination is made by the hearing examiner, any party
may apply to the town for a review of the determination of the hearing examiner
prior to a final decision in the matter by the town. However, application must
be submitted in writing within 15 days of receipt of the determination stating
specifically the grounds of objection to the determination.
         (a)   The town may on its own motion take up the review of the
determination of the hearing examiner at a regularly scheduled meeting.
         (b)   On the basis of the completed record of proceedings and
testimony and evidence presented before the hearing examiner, the determination
shall be affirmed, modified or set aside by the town in a final decision on the
matter.
         (c)   Briefs may be submitted to the town by all parties but are not
required unless specifically requested by the town.
         (d)   All briefs shall be submitted to the town at least 15 days prior
to the scheduled meeting with ten separate copies.
         (e)   Briefs shall state specifically the grounds for affirmation,
modification, or denial of the determination of the hearing examiner.
         (f)   Reply briefs shall be filed five days before the town meeting.
         (g)   Oral arguments shall be limited in duration to not more than one
hour from each party in the hearing, including intervening parties.
         (h)   A full and complete record shall be kept of all proceedings and
reported and transcribed by the town. A copy of the transcript may be requested
by any interested party, who shall pay the costs of preparing the transcript.
         (i)   The town may require a reopening of the adjudicatory hearing
before the hearing examiner for the taking of additional testimony upon all
issues or a particular issue prior to its final decision on the determination
of the hearing examiner.
         (j)   The town may make a decision upon the record presented by the
hearing examiner alone, or the town may consider additional evidence during its
consideration of the determination of the hearing examiner provided that there
is proper opportunity for rebuttal by a party which is affected adversely by
the additional evidence.
         (k)   When the time prescribed in these rules expires on Sunday or
legal holiday, the time shall extend to, and include the next succeeding day
that is not a Sunday or legal holiday.
         (l)   The town or the hearing examiner may grant reasonable extensions
of time to meet the filing deadlines specified therein.
         (m)   Any party aggrieved by a final decision of the town may appeal
the decision to the general court of justice in the county in which the town is
located.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)  Penalty, see §
52.999
ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.115  LEGAL ACTIONS BY TOWN.
   If any person performs an act contrary to the provisions of this chapter or
any order of the town, the town’s attorney may commence an action for
appropriate legal and/or equitable relief in the circuit court of the county.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)
§ 52.116  WATER SUPPLY SEVERANCE.
   Whenever an industrial user is in violation of the provision of this chapter
or an order or permit issued hereunder, water service to the industrial user
may be severed by the town at the request of the town’s discretion, and service
will only recommence, at the user’s expense, after it has satisfactorily
demonstrated that it can achieve consistent compliance.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)
§ 52.117  PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any violation of the prohibitions or limitations of this chapter or
contained in a permit or order issued hereunder, is hereby declared a public
nuisance. Any person(s) creating a public nuisance shall be subject to the
provisions of the town governing the nuisances, including reimbursing the town
for any costs incurred in removing, abating or remedying the nuisance.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)
CROSS-CONNECTIONS
§ 52.130  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION.  An unobstructed vertical distance through the
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water
from any source to a tank, plumbing fixture, or other device and the flood
level rim of the receptacle.  An approved air gap separation shall be at least
double the diameter of the supply pipe.  In no case shall the air gap
separation be less than one inch.  An approved, air gap separation is an
effective method to prevent backflow and shall be considered as a backflow
prevention assembly.
   ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER.  A device used to prevent back siphonage which
is designed so as not to be subject to static line pressure.
   BACK PRESSURE.  Any elevation of pressure in the downstream piping system
caused by pumps, elevation of piping, or steam and/or air pressure above the
supply pressure at the point of consideration, which would cause a reversal of
the normal direction of flow.
   BACK SIPHONAGE.  A reversal of the normal direction of flow in the pipeline
due to a negative pressure (vacuum) being created in the supply line with the
backflow source subject to atmospheric pressure.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY- APPROVED.  An assembly that has been
investigated
and approved by the Town of Grimesland Public Works Department and has been
approved to meet the design and performance standards of the American Society
of Sanitary Engineers (ASSE), the American Water Works Association (AWWA), or
the Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic Research of the
University of Southern California.
   BACKFLOW.  Any reverse flow of water, gas or any other liquid substance or
combination into the public water system from any source due to an unprotected
cross-connection.
   CERTIFIED TESTER.  Any individual person who has proven his or her
competency to test, repair and overhaul backflow prevention assemblies.  This
person must hold a certificate of completion from a certified training program
in the testing and repair of back flow prevention assemblies and cross-
connection control.  This certificate shall be on file with the Public Works
Department.
   CONSUMER/CUSTOMER.  Any person, firm, or corporation using or receiving
water from the Town of Grimesland public water system.
   CONTAINMENT.  The prevention of back flow from a private water system by an
approved, properly functioning backflow prevention assembly which is installed
operated and maintained in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   CONTAMINATION.  An impairment of the quality of the water to a degree, which
creates an actual hazard to the public health through poisoning or through the
spread of disease.
   CROSS-CONNECTION.  Any actual or potential connection or piping arrangement
between a public or a consumer's potable water system and any other source or
system through which it is possible to introduce into any part of the potable
system any used water, industrial fluids, gas or substance which could be
harmful or hazardous to the potable water system.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY (DCVA).  An assembly composed of two single,
independently acting, approved check valves, including tightly closing shut-off
valves located at each end of the device and suitable connections for testing
the water tightness of each check valve.
   DOUBLE CHECK-DETECTOR VALVE ASSEMBLY (DCDA).  An assembly composed of an
approved double check valve assembly with a bypass water meter and a meter-
sized approved double check valve device.  The meter shall register accurately
for very low flow rates and shall register all flow rates.
   HAZARD DEGREE.  The evaluation of a hazard within a private water system as
moderate or severe.
   HAZARD - SEVERE.  An actual or potential threat of contamination to the
public water system or to a customer's potable water system that could cause
serious illness or death.
   HAZARD - IMMINENT.  An actual threat of contamination to the public water
system that could cause serious illness or death.
   HAZARD - MODERATE.  One that presents foreseeable and significant potential
for pollution, nuisance, aesthetically objectionable or other undesirable
alterations of the drinking water supply.
   HEALTH HAZARD.
      (1)   The term shall mean an actual or potential threat of contamination
of a physical, chemical, biological, pathogenic or toxic nature to the public
or consumer's potable water system to such.
      (2)   DANGERS TO HEALTH.  Examples of waterborne health hazards include
but are not limited to:
         (a)   BIOLOGICAL - microorganisms and pathogens like Cryptosporidium,
typhoid, cholera and E. Coli;
         (b)   CHEMICAL - lead, mercury and other heavy metals, organic
compounds, other toxins and hazardous substances; and
         (c)   PHYSICAL - radioisotopes/radionuclides.
   POLLUTION.  An impairment of the quality of the water to a degree which does
not create an actual hazard to the public health, but which does adversely and
unreasonably affect the water for domestic use.
   POTABLE WATER.  Water from any source which has been approved for human
consumption by the appropriate agency of the State of North Carolina, Town of
Grimesland and/or local health agencies.
   PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER.  An assembly suitable for continuous pressure, to
be used to provide protection against back siphonage.
   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM.  Any water system located on the customer's premise,
whether supplied by public potable water or an auxiliary water supply.  The
system or systems may be either a potable water system or an industrial piping
system.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM.  The potable water system owned and operated by the
Town of Grimesland.  This system includes all distribution mains, lines, pipes,
connections, storage tanks and other facilities conveying potable water to the
service connections of each customer.
   PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT.  A branch of the town with employees that are
designated by The Town Council to administer and enforce the provisions of this
subchapter.
   REDUCED PRESSURE ZONE ASSEMBLY (RPZ).  An approved, properly functioning
assembly containing two, independently acting check valves with a hydraulically
operating, mechanically independent pressure differential relief valve located
between the check valves and at the same time below the first check valve.  The
assembly must include properly located test cocks and tightly closing shut-off
valves at each end of the assembly.  This assembly is designed to protect
against a severe hazard.
   RESIDENTIAL DUAL CHECK (RDC).  An assembly, without test cocks or ports,
containing two independently operating spring loaded, poppet type check valves,
in series, which can be easily removed and replaced.  This assembly is suitable
for installation in a water meter vault or pit, below ground.
   SERVICE CONNECTION.  The terminal end of a service connection from the
public potable water system, i.e., where the water purveyor loses jurisdiction
and sanitary control over the water at its point of delivery to the consumer's
water system.
   USED WATER.  Any water supplied by a water purveyor from a public water
system to a consumer's water system after is has passed through the point of
delivery and is no longer under the control of the water purveyor.
   WATER PURVEYOR.  Owner or operator of a public potable water system
providing an approved water supply to the public.
   WATER SUPPLY-AUXILIARY.  Any water supply on or available to the customer's
premises other than the purveyor's approved public potable water supply.  The
auxiliary water may include water from another purveyor's public potable water
supply or any natural source such as a well, spring, river, stream, and the
like, and used or objectionable.
   WATER SUPPLY-UNAPPROVED.  Any water supply, which has not been approved for
human consumption by the North Carolina Department of Human Resources.
(Res. passed 9-11-2012)
§ 52.131  CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL.
   (A)   This subchapter is supplemental to Section 15A NCAC 18C.0406(b) of the
Rules Governing Public Water Systems.  Cross-connection control pertains to
those residents and business that have their own separate pressurized water
system and where the two systems adjoin with any physical connection.
   (B)   Purpose.
      (1)   To protect the public potable water supply of the town from the
possibility of contamination or pollution, due to backsiphonage or
backpressure, by isolation within the consumer's private water system such
contaminants or pollutants, which could backflow into the public water system.
      (2)   To define the authority of the town as the water purveyor entitled
to eliminating all cross-connections, new or existing, within its public water
system.
      (3)   To provide a continuing inspection program of cross-connections,
which may be installed in the future.
      (4)   This subchapter will comply with the Federal Safe Drinking Water
Act (P.L. 93-523), the North Carolina State Administrative Code (Title 15A,
Subchapter 8C), and the North Carolina State Building Code (Volume II) as they
pertain to cross-connections with the public water supply.
   (C)   Responsibility of the town.
      (1)   The town will be primarily responsible for preventing any
contamination or pollution of the public water system.  This responsibility
begins at the point of origin of the public water supply, includes all of the
public water distribution system, including the service connection, and ends at
the point of delivery to the consumer's water system.  The Public Works
Department shall exercise vigilance to ensure that the consumer/customer has
taken the proper steps to protect the public potable water system.
      (2)   When it has been determined that a backflow protection assembly is
required for the prevention of contamination of the public water system, the
Public Works Department shall notify the owner, in writing, of any such
building or premises, to correct within a time set by this subchapter, any
plumbing installed or existing that is in violation of this subchapter.
      (3)   After surveying the private water system the Public Works
Department will select an approved backflow prevention assembly required for
containment control to be installed at service entrance. See Appendix A
attached to Resolution passed September 11, 2012.
      (4)   Prior to the installation of any backflow prevention assembly, the
owner of the private water system must be notified that the installation of a
backflow prevention assembly may create a closed system, and as a result
thermal expansion may occur.  Under such circumstance, the customer must
understand and assume all liability and responsibilities for that phenomenon.
(Res. passed 9-11-2012)
§ 52.132  RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Responsibility of the customer.
      (1)   The customer has the responsibility of preventing contaminants and
pollutants from entering the customer's private water system or the public
water system operated by the town.  The customer, at his or her own expense,
shall install, operate, and maintain all backflow prevention assemblies
specified within this subchapter.  It will be determined by the Public Works
Department where each backflow assembly will be installed with no exceptions
(no grandfather clause exists).
      (2)   If a tenant customer does not maintain the private water system and
has no authority to bring the system into compliance with the provisions of
this subchapter the town may assert any available action against the tenant to
assure the private water system is brought into compliance with this
subchapter.
   (B)   Authorization.
      (1)   Upon presentation of proper credentials and identification any
authorized representative from the town shall have the right to enter any
building, structure or premises during normal business hours, or at any time
during the event of an emergency, to perform any duty imposed upon him or her
by this subchapter.  Those duties may include sampling and testing of water, or
inspection and observation of all piping systems connected to the public water
supply.  Refusal to allow these representatives to enter for these purposes
will result in a fine or the disconnection of water service.
      (2)   On request, the consumer shall furnish to the water purveyor any
pertinent information regarding the water supply system on such property where
cross-connection and backflow are deemed possible (N.C. State Plumbing Code
Appendix 0104.2.3).
(Res. passed 9-11-2012)
§ 52.133  ELIMINATION OF CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   Unprotected cross-connection prohibited:
   (A)   Unless otherwise determined no water service connection to any private
water system shall be installed or maintained by the town unless the water
supply is protected as required by this subchapter and other applicable laws. 
Service of water to an identified premises shall be discontinued by the town if
a backflow assembly, required by this subchapter, is not installed, tested, and
maintained or if a backflow assembly has been removed, bypassed, or if an
unprotected cross connection exists on the premises. Service will be restored
after all such conditions or defects are corrected.
   (B)   No customer shall allow an unprotected cross-connection to be made or
to remain involving the customer's private water system.
   (C)   No connection shall be made to an unapproved auxiliary water supply
unless the public water supply is protected against backflow by an approved
backflow assembly, appropriate to the degree of hazard.
   (D)   No customer shall fail to maintain in good operating condition any
backflow prevention assembly, which is part of the customer's private water
system and is required by this subchapter.
   (E)   No customer shall fail to submit to the town any record, which is
required by this subchapter.
(Res. passed 9-11-2012)
§ 52.134  INSTALLATION.
   Installation and testing of backflow prevention assembly:
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to require that all water flowing from
the public water system, must flow through an approved backflow prevention
assembly and that each backflow prevention assembly be properly located,
installed, maintained and tested so that the backflow prevention assembly is
effective in protecting the public water system from any possible contamination
or pollution.
   (B)   The installation or replacement of a backflow prevention assembly for
domestic water use shall only be performed by a licensed plumber or utility
contractor.  The installation or repair of a backflow prevention assembly on a
dedicated fire sprinkler service shall be performed by a licensed fire
sprinkler contractor or utility contractor.  All backflow prevention assemblies
shall be tested by a certified backflow technician authorized by the Public
Works Department. Repairs to a backflow prevention assembly on a dedicated fire
sprinkler system may only be performed by a fire sprinkler contractor.
   (C)   All new construction plans and specifications which will directly
affect the town water system, and/or required by the North Carolina Building
Code, the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources
(NCDENR), and Town or County Planning and Zoning Offices, shall be made
available to the Public Works Department for review, approval and to determine
the degree of hazard.
   (D)   All existing facilities zoned commercial or industrial and have
existing water services with the public water system and requesting certificate
of occupancy from the Town or County Planning and Zoning offices, shall be
inspected for compliance of back flow and cross-connection control prevention.
Any facility not having backflow protection or changing the degree of hazard
shall be brought into compliance before the town may release certificate of
occupancy.  No grandfather clause exists.
   (E)   All customer's that are required to have a backflow prevention
assembly must install and maintain this device on their own premises as part of
the customer's private water system.  The installation will be located between
the water service connection and the structure and before any other service
line connection except as authorized by the Public Works Department.
   (F)   If it has been determined that a backflow prevention assembly cannot
be installed at the meter service or other outside location, the Public Works
Department, may allow the assembly to be installed just inside the building.
   (G)   Any branch of plumbing installed on a private water system that may be
of a greater hazard than the supply line, (example: chemical induced irrigation
or fire systems, pump systems, and the like) shall be protected with a reduced
pressure zone assembly.
   (H)   All backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed in accordance
with the backflow and cross-connection specifications furnished by the town
and/or the manufacturer's instructions, whichever is most restrictive.
   (I)   All double check valve assemblies, two inch or larger shall be
installed in a watertight drainable pit wherever below ground installation is
necessary in accordance with the backflow and cross-connection specifications
furnished by the town.  If a drain cannot be provided, the assembly must be
installed above ground.
   (J)   Double check valve assemblies may be installed in a vertical position
with prior approval from the Public Works Department provided the flow of water
is in an upward direction.
   (K)   Reduce pressure principle assemblies are preferred to be installed in
a horizontal position above
ground, and in a location where the RPZ will not be submerged.  If the assembly
has to be below ground it will be installed horizontal in a vault with positive
drainage with adequate gravity drainage to the atmosphere.  The access door
will be made of aluminum and be water tight.
   (L)   Any customer installing a reduced pressure zone (RPZ), pressure vacuum
breaker (PVB), double check-detector assembly (DCDA) or double check valve
assembly (DCVA) shall provide the following information on forms provided by
the town to the Public Works Department within ten days of installation:
service address, owner, date of installation, type of assembly, manufacturer,
model, and serial number.
   (M)   No service shall be completed until the Public Works Department has
been provided information or has surveyed the private water system to determine
the degree of hazard and make a determination of a backflow prevention assembly
to be installed to protect the public water supply.
   (N)   The Public Works Department must approve each backflow assembly
required by this subchapter.  The town and approved assemblies manuals state
the specifications for backflow assemblies used in the town.  Any unapproved
backflow assemblies must be replaced within a time frame set by the Public
Works Department with an approved backflow assembly.
   (O)   If it has been determined that a customer must install a backflow
prevention assembly; the Public Works Department will provide the customer with
a letter of notification.  The following time periods shall be set forth for
the installation of the specified assemblies after the receipt of the
notification:
      (1)   Severe hazard: 90 days.
      (2)   Moderate hazard: 180 days.
   (P)   If an imminent hazard or unreasonable threat of contamination or
pollution to the public water system is detected, the Public Works Department
may require the installation of the required backflow assembly immediately or
within a shorter time period than specified in §
52.138.
(Res. passed 9-11-2012)
§ 52.135  TESTING AND REPAIR.
   Testing and repair of backflow prevention assemblies:
   (A)   Testing and repair of backflow prevention assemblies shall be made by
a certified backflow prevention technician approved by the Public Works
Department.  Such tests are to be conducted annually or at a frequency
established by the Public Works Department.  A certified backflow prevention
technician shall perform any testing and the test results shall be submitted to
the town on an approved form within 30 business days after the completion of
any testing.  If a repair is found necessary on an assembly it must be re-
tested.  A complete duplicate copy of any repair shall be sent to the Public
Works Department within 30 days of completion of the repair.  Each customer
must maintain a complete copy of any tests or repairs.
   (B)   Each backflow prevention assembly must function properly before
installment.  The customer will be required to test each assembly within ten
days following installation at his or her expense. Certified backflow
prevention technician shall conduct the test and the results shall be submitted
to the Public Works Department on an approved form.
   (C)   Any time that repairs to backflow prevention assemblies are deemed
necessary, whether through annual or required testing, or routine inspection by
the consumer or by the Public Works Department these repairs must be completed
within a specified time in accordance with the degree of hazard. In no case
shall this time period exceed:
      (1)   Severe hazard facilities: seven days.
      (2)   Moderate hazard facilities: 21 days.
   (D)   All backflow prevention assemblies with test cocks are required to be
tested annually or at a frequency established by the Public Works Department.
   (E)   All certified backflow prevention technicians must obtain and employ
backflow prevention assembly test equipment which has been evaluated and/or
approved by the Public Works Department. All test equipment shall be registered
with the Public Works Department and shall be checked for accuracy annually (at
a minimum), calibrated if necessary, and certified as to such accuracy/
calibration, employing a calibration method acceptable to the town.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any consumer or certified backflow prevention
assembly tester to submit any record to the town which is false or incomplete
in any material respect.  It shall be unlawful for any consumer or certified
tester to fail to submit to the town any record which is required by this
subchapter. Such violations may result in any of the enforcement actions
outlined in §
52.142.
   (G)   If a customer does not wish for water service to be interrupted when a
backflow assembly is tested, repaired, or replaced, a parallel installation
must be made, at the customer's expense, using an approved assembly of the same
degree of hazard.  The parallel assembly may be the same size or smaller.
   (H)   No service shall be completed until the Public Works Department has
been provided information or has surveyed the private water system to determine
the degree of hazard and make a determination of a backflow prevention assembly
to be installed to protect the public water supply.
   (I)   Any customer making any modification to the private system's
configuration or use of, which may change the degree of hazard, shall notify
the Public Works Department before any modification is made.  If the Public
Works Department determines that such modification requires a different
backflow prevention assembly, that assembly must be installed before the
modification is made.
(Res. passed 9-11-2012)
§ 52.136  SEVERE HAZARD FACILITIES AND METHODS OF CORRECTION.
   (A)   All severe hazard facilities must have an approved reduced pressure
principle assembly as a minimum containment device.
   (B)   Severe hazard facilities include, but are not limited to: any private
water system used or designed pump or which may become pressurized for use with
a booster for any reason to the extent that back pressure may occur; any
private water system which contains water which has been or is being re-
circulated; a building with five or more stories above ground level; brewery;
car wash with recycling system; bottling plant; chemical plant; dentist's
office; dry cleaning plant; fertilizer plant; film laboratory; fire sprinkler
or standpipe system with chemical additives; hospital, clinic, medical
building; irrigation system with chemical additives; laboratory; commercial
laundry (except self-service laundry); metal processing plant; morgue or
mortuary; nursing home; pharmaceutical plant; power plant; swimming pool;
sewage treatment plant; tire manufacturer; veterinary hospital or clinic;
restaurants; battery manufacturers; exterminators and lawn care companies;
dairies; canneries; dye works; recycling facilities.
   (C)   If the Public Works Department does not have sufficient access to
every portion of a private water system to permit the complete evaluation of
the degree of hazard associated with the private water system, an approved
reduced pressure principle assembly must be installed.
   (D)   All assemblies and installations shall be subject to inspection and
approval by the Public Works Department.
   (E)   Filling of tanks/tankers or any other container from a town owned fire
hydrant is strictly prohibited unless it has been equipped with the proper
meter and backflow protection.  At which point the town will issue a permit for
that tank/tanker or container.  Any unauthorized connection to a fire hydrant
is considered an illegal cross-connection to the public water system and will
be subject to fines.
(Res. passed 9-11-2012)
§ 52.137  MODERATE HAZARD.
   (A)   All moderate hazard facilities must have a double check valve assembly
as a minimum containment device.
   (B)   Moderate hazard facilities include, but are not limited to: fire
sprinkler systems without booster pump facilities or chemical additives;
connections to tanks, lines and vessels that handle non-toxic substances; lawn
sprinkler systems without chemical injection or, booster pumps; all industrial
and most commercial facilities not identified as high hazard facilities.
   (C)   All single family residential homes will be considered a moderate
hazard and shall have a minimum of a dual check valve device installed at the
meter service or at the resident’s home.
   (D)   If no other backflow prevention assembly is specified a double check
valve assembly must be installed on all private water systems.
   (E)   Only a backflow prevention assembly offering a greater degree of
protection may be installed in place of a specified assembly required by this
subchapter.
(Res. passed 9-11-2012)
§ 52.138  IMMINENT HAZARD.
   If it has been determined a customer's private water system has an imminent
hazard, the customer shall install a backflow prevention assembly specified by
the Public Works Department and this subchapter.  This assembly must be
installed within 24 hours of notification from the Public Works Department.  If
the customer fails to install the specified assembly within the allowed time
limit, water service to the customer's private water system will be terminated
and may be subject to specified civil penalties. In the event the town is
unable to notify the customer in 24 hours of determining an imminent hazard
exists, the Public Works Department may terminate water service until the
specified assembly is installed.  These actions may be carried out under the
Safe Drinking Water Act (Title XIV Section 1431) and the N.C. State Plumbing
Code (appendix D 1 04.2.6).
(Res. passed 9-11-2012)
§ 52.139  LAWN IRRIGATION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   All proposed lawn irrigation systems will be served through a separate
meter and must have a reduced pressure zone (RPZ) assembly as a minimum
containment device.
   (B)   Only a back flow prevention assembly offering a greater degree of
protection may be installed in place of a specified assembly required by this
subchapter.
(Res. passed 9-11-2012)
§ 52.140  FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   All unmetered fire sprinkler systems without booster facilities or
chemical additives shall have a double check-detector check valve assembly as a
minimum containment device.
   (B)   All unmetered fire sprinkler systems with a booster facility or
chemical additives shall have a reduced pressure principle-detector assembly as
a minimum containment device.
(Res. passed 9-11-2012)
§ 52.141  NOTICES.
   Notice of contamination of pollution:
   (A)   In the event the customer's private water system becomes contaminated
or polluted the customer shall notify the town immediately.
   (B)   In the event a customer has reason to believe that a backflow incident
has occurred between the customer's private water system and the public water
system the customer must notify the town immediately in order that appropriate
measures may be taken to isolate and remove the contamination of pollution.
(Res. passed 9-11-2012)
§ 52.142  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Notification of violation.
      (1)   A written notice must be presented to any customer/person who has
been found to be in violation of any part of this subchapter.
      (2)   The notice must explain the violation and give the time period
within which the violation must be corrected.  The time period set to correct a
violation shall not exceed 30 days after receiving notice unless otherwise
specified.  If the violation has been determined by the Public Works Department
to be an imminent hazard the customer shall be required to correct the
violation immediately.
      (3)   In the event a customer is found in violation of this subchapter
and fails to correct the violation in a timely manner, or to pay any civil
penalty or expense assessed under this section, water service will be
terminated.
      (4)   The town shall bear no liability for direct or consequential
damages proximately caused by discontinuance of water service.
   (B)   The violation of any section of this subchapter may be punished by a
civil penalty listed as follows:
      (1)   Unprotected cross connection involving a private water system,
which has an imminent hazard: $1,000 per day not to exceed $10,000.
      (2)   Unprotected cross connection involving a private water system is of
a moderate or severe hazard: $500.
      (3)   Submitting false records or failure to submit records, which are
required by this subchapter: $500 day.
      (4)   Failure to test or maintain backflow prevention assemblies as
required: $100 per day.
   (C)   Reduction of penalty.
      (1)   The Public Works Department may reduce or dismiss any civil penalty
imposed under this section if the Public Works Department has determined that
the person/persons charged with the violation has no past history of violations
as set by the Cross Connection Ordinance for town.
      (2)   No civil penalty shall be reduced if it has been determined the
violation was intentional.
      (3)   Any person violating any part of this subchapter must reimburse the
town for any expenses in repairing damage to the public water system caused by
any violation and any expenses incurred for investigating a violation.
(Res. passed 9-11-2012)
§ 52.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any user who is found to have failed to comply with any
provision of this chapter, or the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued
hereunder, may be fined in an amount as set by the Board from time to time for
each offense. Each day on which a violation shall occur or continue shall be
deemed a separate and distinct offense. The assessments shall be added to the
user’s next scheduled service charges and the town shall have the remedies for
the collection of the assessments as it has for collection of other service
charges.
      (1)   Civil penalties. Any user who is found to have failed to comply
with any provision of this chapter, or the orders, rules, regulations and
permits issued hereunder, shall be fined in an amount as set by the Board from
time to time for each offense. Each day on which a violation shall occur or
continue shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense. The assessments may
be added to the user’s next scheduled service charges and the POTW shall have
the remedies for the collection of the assessments as it has for collection of
other service charges.
      (2)   Criminal violations. Any user who is found to have failed to comply
with any provision of this chapter, or the orders, rules, regulations and
permits issued hereunder, shall be, upon conviction, guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine or imprisonment or both as provide in G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   Penalties for falsifying information. Any person who knowingly makes
any false statements, representatives or certifications in any application,
record, report plan or other document files or required to be maintained
pursuant to this chapter, or wastewater permit, or who falsifies, tampers with,
or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under
this chapter, shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine in an amount as set
by the Board from time to time or by imprisonment for not more than six months,
or by both.
   (C)   Civil penalties. Any person who violates this chapter or any order or
permit issued hereunder, shall be liable to the town for a civil penalty of in
an amount as set by the Board from time to time, plus actual damages incurred
by the town, per violation per day so long as the violation continues. In
addition to the above-described penalty and damages, the town may recover
attorney’s fees, court costs and other expenses of the enforcement litigation.
The town’s Director may petition the court to impose, assess and recover the
sums. In determining that amount, the court shall take into account all
relevant circumstances, including but not limited to, the extent of harm caused
by the violation, the magnitude and duration, any economic benefit gained by
the user and any other factor which justice requires.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2000)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
74.   GOLF CARTS
CHAPTER 70:  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Motor vehicle laws within the town
§ 70.01  MOTOR VEHICLE LAWS WITHIN THE TOWN.
   The laws and statutes of the state, in respect to the operation of any motor
vehicle within the corporate limits of any town, shall apply and be in full
force and effect in the town.
(1991 Code, Title IX, § 4)
CHAPTER 71:  PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Street parking
   
71.99   Penalty
Statutory references:
   Parking in municipalities, see G.S. §§ 160A-296 et seq.
   Stopping and parking, see G.S. §§ 20-161 et seq.
§ 71.01  STREET PARKING.
   Overnight parking on streets by vehicles and/or trailers prohibited.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle or trailer on
the streets within the corporate limits of the town overnight or at any time
except for the duration of the following activities:
      (1)   When actively engaged in loading or unloading;
      (2)   Temporary parking for emergency services to a vehicle or trailer to
repair a mechanical breakdown;
      (3)   Temporary parking at a construction site during the period of
active construction.
   (B)   Provided, that this section shall not apply to any mass transit buses
or to school buses, when the school buses are parked in conformity with the
laws of the state.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2006)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violator who has received a notice of violation under §
71.01 may answer the charge before the town paying a civil penalty in an amount
as set by the Board from time to time.
   (B)   Unless otherwise stated, a fine levied under this section shall be a
maximum in an amount as set by the Board, from time to time, per day with each
day constituting a separate and distinct violation. At the discretion of the
issuing officer, a civil penalty may be assessed, payable to the Town Finance
Department, and recoverable by the town in a civil action by failure to pay
within 30 days, pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175(c). Otherwise, the violation shall
be an infraction with a maximum fine in an amount as set by the Board from time
to time, and jurisdiction shall be proper in the General Court of Justice for
the county.
   (C)   The town shall have the right to abate any violation of §
71.01 through injunction pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175(e), and shall hold the
property owner (real and personal) liable for all costs associated with a
remedy, to include a reasonable attorney's fee, and the fines and costs shall
be assessable as a lien on the property.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2006)
CHAPTER 72:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I.  SPEED LIMITS.
   The maximum speed for any vehicle upon that section of Pitt Street beginning
at a point 500 feet east of the school property line, and extending 500 feet
west of the school property line, and extending 500 feet west of the school
property line, shall be 35 mph between the hours of 7:30 and 8:30 a.m. and 2:30
and 3:30 p.m. on each day that the school is in session. Any person, firm or
corporation violating the provisions of this schedule shall, upon conviction,
be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished in accordance with G.S. § 14-
4.
(1991 Code, Title IX, § 5)
CHAPTER 73:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   No parking areas
SCHEDULE I.  NO PARKING AREAS.
   “No Parking” signs shall be erected and areas of same be painted on the
following streets:
   (A)   On the south side of N.C. 33 (Pitt Street) from River Street westward
for 50 feet;
   (B)   On the south side of N.C. 33 (Pitt Street) from River Street eastward
for 50 feet;
   (C)   On both sides of N.C. 33 (Pitt Street) from SR 1565 (Beaufort Street)
westward for 50 feet;
   (D)   On the north side of N.C. 33 (Pitt Street) from River Street eastward
for 58 feet;
   (E)   On the north side of N.C. 33 (Pitt Street) from River Street westward
for 60 feet;
   (F)   On the south side of N.C. 33 (Pitt Street) from SR 1777 (Chicod
Street) eastward for 67 feet; and
   (G)   On the south side of N.C. 33 (Pitt Street) from SR 1777 (Chicod
Street) westward for 55 feet.
   (H)   By virtue of the authority vested in the Board of Aldermen, under G.S.
§§ 160A-296 and 160A-300, River Street located within the town between Pitt
Street and First Street shall amend this schedule to add:
      (1)   On the west side of River Street from NC 33 (Pitt Street) southward
25 feet.
      (2)   On the west side of River Street from First Street northward to
pass the Grimesland Resource Center Drive.
      (3)   On the east side of River Street from NC (Pitt Street) southward to
the corner of the Grimesland Park.
(1991 Code, Title IX, § 7)  (Ord. 2011-002, passed 1-1-2012)
CHAPTER 74:  GOLF CARTS
Section
   
74.01   Purpose and authority
   
74.02   Statement of policy
   
74.03   Definitions
   
74.04   Rules and regulations
   
74.05   Areas prohibited for use
   
74.06   Registration
   
74.07   Enforcement
§ 74.01  PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   The purpose of the chapter is to regulate the operation of golf carts on any
public street, road or highway within the jurisdiction of the Town of
Grimesland, under the authority of G.S. § 160A-300.6, in order to provide
certain limited safety protections relating to golf cart operators, golf cart
passengers and other users of streets and highways.
(Ord. 2019-2020:002, passed 2-11-2020)
§ 74.02  STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   While the town finds that regulations governing the operation of golf carts
are necessary to address certain public safety issues, the town notes that golf
carts are not designed or manufactured for use on streets and roads and do not
possess the same safety features required of motor vehicles. The town does not
advocate or endorse their operation on streets and roads, and specifically
advises that the adoption of these regulations does not constitute a
determination that the use of golf carts on streets or roads are safe for
operators and passengers. Operators and passengers use golf carts at their own
risk and peril, are advised to be attentive to motorists, bicyclists,
pedestrians, these regulations, the motor vehicle laws of the state and the
town and are urged to use appropriate personal safety equipment, including seat
belts and child restraints.
(Ord. 2019-2020:002, passed 2-11-2020)
§ 74.03  DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A GOLF CART is a vehicle designed and manufactured for operation
on a golf course for sporting or recreational purposes and is not capable of
exceeding speeds of 25 miles per hour.
   GOLF CARTS do not include "low speed vehicles", as defined by state law,
which are subject to the registration, inspection, and other laws of the state
relating to motor vehicles. GOLF CARTS also do not include utility vehicles or
motorized all-terrain vehicles, which are not eligible for use on public roads
or for registration as motor vehicles under state law, or vehicles originally
designed as golf carts which have been modified to operate at speeds greater
than 20 miles per hour (See G.S. § 20-4.01(12a)).
   PUBLIC STREETS, ROADS and HIGHWAYS.PUBLIC STREETS, ROADS, and HIGHWAYS
include the following roadways and rights-of-way: (1) municipal streets
maintained by the town, (2) streets generally open to public use, and (3)
public vehicular areas, the latter being defined by G.S. § 20-219.4.
(Ord. 2019-2020:002, passed 2-11-2020)
§ 74.04  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Golf carts may be operated on public streets, roads, and highways (defined
herein) within the Town of Grimesland and on property owned or leased by the
town only in accordance with the following requirements and regulations.
   (A)   Driver's license required. Golf cart operators must have a valid
driver's license, issued in their name and the license must be in their
possession when operating a golf cart.
   (B)   Minimum operator age. Persons operating a golf cart must be at least
16 years of age.
   (C)   Basic safety equipment. Golf carts must be equipped with a rearview
mirror and either (1) triangle reflector at least 12 inches high designed to
designate a slow moving vehicle and (2) two reflectors, at least three inches
in diameter, mounted on the rear of the vehicle.
   (D)   Operating hours. Golf carts may be operated on public streets,
highways, or roadways only from dawn to dusk unless the golf cart is equipped
with the following equipment: (1) two operating headlights on each side of the
front of the cart, capable of illuminating for a distance of 200 feet and
capable of being seen for a distance of 500 feet under normal atmospheric
conditions; (2) two operating taillights, one on each side of the rear of the
cart, capable of being seen from 500 feet under normal atmospheric conditions.
   (E)   Vehicle laws compliance. Golf cart operators shall observe and comply
with all state and municipal laws and regulations relating to the operation of
motor vehicles, including those relating to the possession and use of alcoholic
beverages and illegal substances. No golf cart containing any open container of
alcohol may be operated on public streets, roads or highways.
   (F)   Operation on Town of Grimesland roadway. Golf carts shall be operated
at the far right edge of the roadway and shall yield the right-of-way to
overtaking motor vehicles at all times.
   (G)   Passenger limitations. The number of persons in a golf cart may not
exceed the designed maximum capacity specified by the manufacturer. No persons
may - and the operator shall not allow - any person to ride in or on any part
of a golf cart not designed to carry passengers, including portions designed
for storage or carrying of golf bags or other items. The operator and all
occupants shall remain seated while the golf cart is in operation, and no part
of an operator or occupant's body shall extend outside the golf cart while it
is in motion, other than necessary hand signals by the operator to indicate
turns.
   (H)   Speed; proper operation. Golf carts shall not be operated at a speed
greater than 20 miles per hour, shall not (in any case) be operated at a speed
greater than is reasonable and prudent for existing conditions, shall not be
operated in a careless or reckless or in a manner that endangers other persons,
and shall at all times be operated in compliance with any law enforcement
officer controlling traffic.
   (I)   No operation on sidewalks. Golf carts shall not be operated on
sidewalks at any time.
   (J)   Private property. Golf carts shall not be operated on private
property, including but not limited to parking lots and other private vehicular
areas, without the permission of the owner(s).
   (K)   Public vehicular areas. If golf carts are operated within public
vehicular areas (as defined by state law), they shall comply with any
provisions of the state, local law and any posted traffic controls that apply
to the operation of motor vehicles within such areas.
   (L)   Registration. Golf carts must be properly registered as required by
this section and must display, in the lower corner of the windshield on the
driver's side or in the nearest feasible location, a current, valid
registration sticker issued by the Town of Grimesland.
   (M)   Permitted operational locations. Golf carts may be operated only on
streets with a posted speed limit of 25 miles per hour or less.
   (N)   Crossings. Golf carts may not travel upon or cross streets, roads, or
highways with a speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour except at a provided
intersection.
   (O)   Parking. Golf carts may be parked in the same manner and in the same
places designated for parking of motor vehicles.
   (P)   Special situations. In special circumstances such as emergency
situation, special events or other unusual circumstances the Town Public Works
Director or his/her designee may temporarily authorize, direct, allow or
prohibit the operation of golf carts in a manner different from the normal
regulations of this chapter.
   (Q)   Handicapped parking. Golf carts may park in handicapped parking spaces
only if the operation or at least one passenger has a valid handicapped parking
authorization issued by the state. Handicapped parking sign must be displayed
and in full view on the golf cart.
(Ord. 2019-2020:002, passed 2-11-2020)
§ 74.05  AREAS PROHIBITED FOR USE.
   (A)   The use or operation of golf carts along all streets, roads, and
highways with speed limits higher than 25 miles per hour except for those road
crossings specifically permitted is prohibited.
   (B)   The use or operation of golf carts on the following streets, roads, or
highways within the Town of Grimesland except for road crossings specifically
permitted.
(Ord. 2019-2020:002, passed 2-11-2020)
§ 74.06  REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Applications. All golf cart owners must annually complete a
registration application in a proper manner, pay any applicable application
and/or registration fees, and submit their golf carts for inspection by the
Town Public Works Director or his/her designee. The registration application
shall also include signed confirmation that the applicant has read, understands
and agrees to comply with town regulations regarding the operation of golf
carts. Upon a determination that the application and the cart meet the town's
requirements, the Town Clerk will approve said application for registration
   (B)   Ownership and liability. All golf cart owners shall provide proof of
ownership, and a waiver of liability (in terms prepared by the town) releasing
the Town of Grimesland from any and all liability that may arise from the
operation of the golf cart within the jurisdiction of the Town of Grimesland.
The required liability insurance coverage shall be in an amount not less than
required by North Carolina law for motor vehicles operated on public highways.
   (C)   Fees. Fees for golf cart applications, inspections, and/or
registrations shall be as determined by the Board of Aldermen and amended as
needed. Such fees shall be non-refundable and shall not be pro-rated for
partial years.
   (D)   Registration period. Golf cart registrations shall be valid for no
more than one year and shall expire on June 30 of each year. Registrations may
be issued at any time during the year but all registrations shall expire on the
following June 30.
(Ord. 2019-2020:002, passed 2-11-2020)
§ 74.07  ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be enforced by, and violators subject to, any one, all or
a combination of the following:
   (A)   Infraction. Any act constituting a violation of this chapter or
failure to comply with any of its requirements shall constitute an infraction
under the provisions of Chapter 20 and/or Chapter 14 of the North Carolina
General Statues unless such violation is also a violation of the "rules of the
road" applicable to motor vehicles under the North Carolina General Statues in
which case the greatest penalty will apply.
   (B)   Civil penalties. Any act constituting a violation of this chapter
shall subject the offender to a civil penalty of $50 plus any attorney fees,
court costs, or other collection expenses incurred by the town. If the offender
fails to pay the penalty within 30 days of receiving written notice of the
violation, the amount owed may be recovered by the town in a civil action in
the nature of debt. In addition, failure to pay a civil penalty shall
constitute grounds for revocation of golf cart registration.
   (C)   Registration revocation. Three violations of this chapter within any
12-month period shall constitute cause for revocation of a golf cart
registration for a period of one year.
   (D)   Continuing violations. Each day that any of the provisions of this
chapter is violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2019-2020:002, passed 2-11-2020)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   GENERAL NUISANCES
      
93.   ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED VEHICLES
      
94.   NOISE REGULATIONS
      
95.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
96.   YARD SALES
CHAPTER 90:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
90.01   Parades, demonstrations and pickets
   
90.02   Posters on utility poles
§ 90.01  PARADES, DEMONSTRATIONS AND PICKETS.
   (A)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any person to organize,
conduct or participate in any parade, picket line or group demonstration in or
upon any street, sidewalk, alley or other public place within the town, unless
a permit therefore has been issued by the town in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BLOCK.  The portion of any street lying between its intersections with
other streets.
      GROUP DEMONSTRATION.  Any assembly together or concert of action between
or among two or more persons for the purpose of protesting any matter or of
making known any position or promotion of those persons, or of or on behalf of
any organization or class of person or for the purpose of attracting attention
to the assembly.
      PARADE.  Any assemblage of two or more persons participating in or
operating any vehicle in any march, ceremony, show, exhibition or procession of
any kind in or upon the public streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks or other
public grounds or places.
      PERSON.  Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association or other
organization, whether formal or informal.
      PICKET LINE.  Any two or more persons formed together for the purpose of
making known any position or promotion of the persons, or of or on behalf of
any organization or class of persons.
   (C)   Permit; issuance; refusal. The Town Clerk, or his or her designee, is
authorized to issue permits as required in the preceding section, and in the
issuance therefore he or she shall:
      (1)   Require a written application for permit to be filed not less than
72 working hours in advance of the parade, picket line or group demonstration;
      (2)   Refuse to issue the permit for parades, picket line or group
demonstration to commence before 6:00 a.m. or terminate after 5:00 p.m.;
      (3)   Require that the application for a permit specify whether or not
minors below the age of 18 years will be permitted to participate; and
      (4)   Require that the application for a permit shall specify and the
permit shall designate the person or persons in charge of the activity. The
person shall be required to accompany the parade, picket line or group
demonstration and shall carry the permit with him or her at that time. The
permit shall not be valid in the possession of any other person.
   (D)   Prohibited activities. The following acts or activities, when
performed or undertaken in conjunction with or as a part of, any parade, picket
line or group demonstration, are hereby prohibited and declared unlawful:
      (1)   The carrying on or about the person any firearm, knives or any
weapon or article, including but not limited to blackjacks, night sticks or
flashlights, which by their use might constitute a deadly weapon;
      (2)   The taking or keeping of any dog or other vicious animal, whether
leashed or unleashed;
      (3)   Refuse to issue the permit for parades, picket line or group
demonstration to commence before 8:00 a.m. or terminate after 5:00 p.m.;
      (4)   Specify in the permit whether or not minors below the age of 18
years will be permitted to participate. The town shall pass upon whether or not
the minors may participate, and shall base his or her determination upon
whether or not the purpose or time or place of the particular activity will be
detrimental to or endanger the health, safety or welfare of the minors, or will
interfere with their education;
      (5)   Require that the application or a permit shall specify and the
permit shall designate the person or persons in charge of the activity. The
person shall be required to accompany the parade, picket line or group
demonstration and shall carry the permit with him or her at that time. The
permit shall not be valid in the possession of any other person;
      (6)   The permit may set the starting lime, duration, speed of travel and
space between persons or vehicles in the parade, picket line or group
demonstration, may prescribe the portions or areas of streets, alleys,
sidewalks or other public places to be used and may impose other reasonable
requirements as the town may prescribe for the control and free movement of
pedestrian or vehicular traffic, or for the health, safety and property rights
of the participants and the general public; and
      (7)   Among other considerations, consider and find as a requisite to
issuance the following:
         (a)   The activity will not interfere with the right of property
owners in the area to enjoy peaceful and lawful occupancy and use of their
property; and
         (b)   The activity can be conducted without unreasonable interference
with normal pedestrian or vehicular traffic in the area, and will not prevent
normal police and fire protection to the public and will not be likely to cause
injury to persons or property or to provoke disorderly or to create a public
disturbance.
   (E)   Revocation of permit. The Town Clerk shall revoke any permit granted
for a parade, picket line or group demonstration for any of the following
causes:
      (1)   The violation of any participant of division (D) above; and/or
      (2)   The failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit.
   (F)   Interference with parade and the like prohibited. No person shall
hamper, obstruct or interfere with any parade, picket line or group
demonstration being conducted under authority of a permit duly issued by the
town.
   (G)   Additional picketing regulations.
      (1)   Picketing may be conducted only on the sidewalks reserved for
pedestrian movement, and may not be conducted on the portion of a street used
primarily for vehicular traffic.
      (2)   Not more than two pickets promoting the same objective shall be
permitted to use either of the two sidewalks within a single block at any one
time.
      (3)   Pickets may carry written or printed placards or signs not
exceeding two feet in width and two feet in length promoting the objective for
which the picketing is done; provided, that the words used are not derogatory
or defamatory in nature.
      (4)   Pickets must march in single file and not abreast and not march
closer together than 15 feet, except in passing one another. Pickets shall not
be allowed to walk more than five feet from curb line and shall be in
continuous motion.
      (5)   If pickets promoting different objectives desire to use the same
sidewalk for picketing, and the use would result in the presence of more than
two pickets thereon, the Town Clerk shall allot time to each group of pickets
for the use of the sidewalk on an equitable basis.
   (H)   Exceptions. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   Any governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(1991 Code, Title X, § 4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.02  POSTERS ON UTILITY POLES.
   No posters, political or otherwise, shall be placed on any telephone poles
or electrical light poles within the town limits.
(1991 Code, Title X, § 5)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 91:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
91.01   General policy
   
91.02   Approval of development plan
   
91.03   Grading and drainage
   
91.04   Storm sewers
   
91.05   Street improvements
   
91.06   Naming of streets
   
91.07   Non-acceptable streets
   
91.08   Beasts on sidewalks
§ 91.01  GENERAL POLICY.
   A general policy is hereby established that new streets accepted by the town
for maintenance must be reasonably complete and usable before the town accepts
them. The town’s problem is one of maintenance and not one of construction or
reconstruction, therefore 100% of all new street construction costs shall be
paid by the owner/developer.
(1991 Code, Title VI, Art. A, § 1)
§ 91.02  APPROVAL OF DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   Owners or developers of any proposed new development must present to the
town a complete plan and secure the town’s approval of the layout before the
town agrees to take over the completed streets of the development or
maintenance.
(1991 Code, Title VI, Art. A, § 2)
§ 91.03  GRADING AND DRAINAGE.
   (A)   The plan must require owners or developers to properly design and
grade improvements to existing streets, construction of new streets and
construction as it applies to parcels of land. The owner or developer shall
provide adequate drainage features and structures including pipe culverts,
inlets, storm sewers, ditches and driveway pipes or other structures as
required to comply with the NCDOT Division of Highways, Subdivision Roads
Minimum Construction Standards. Design and construction of drainage structures
and features both within and without street rights-of-way shall comply with the
NCDOT - Guidelines for Drainage Studies and Hydraulic Design.
   (B)   The grading of the proposed streets must be sufficient to leave them
reasonably smooth, to provide side ditches of proper size and grade and to
provide a street cross section (commonly referred to as a CROWN) which will
drain all water from the street into side ditches. The side ditches must be
adequate to carry storm water away from the adjacent property when this
property slopes toward the street.
(1991 Code, Title VI, Art. A, § 3)
§ 91.04  STORM SEWERS.
   Any required drainage across proposed streets or at intersections to provide
for storms or storm water must have adequate pipe culverts of sufficient size
installed to carry the expected flows based on the drainage area tributary to
the pipe.
(1991 Code, Title VI, Art. A, § 4)
§ 91.05  STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   All future street paving projects shall include curbs and gutters, and
under normal conditions, no streets will be paved except upon petition signed
by a majority of the abutting property owners owning a majority of the front
footage abutting the paving project. On all streets which have previously been
paved without curbs and gutters, the town will accept petitions calling for
curbs and gutters only.
   (B)   The cost of these street improvements is as follows:
      (1)   The town will pay the entire cost of street intersections; and
      (2)   All street improvements, except as provided in the Town Charter,
all streets, sidewalks, curbs and gutters will be accomplished under applicable
state law. The town will not accept a petition under the provision of G.S. §
160A-217, unless the petition shall provide that the abutting property owners
will pay at least 50% of the costs of the proposed improvements, excluding the
cost of street intersections.
(1991 Code, Title VI, Art. A, § 5)
§ 91.06  NAMING OF STREETS.
   (A)   The Board of Aldermen shall have power to designate the names of
streets within the town.
   (B)   A record of the designations shall be made in the minutes of the
meeting of the Board of Aldermen.
(1991 Code, Title VI, Art. A, § 6)
§ 91.07  NON-ACCEPTABLE STREETS.
   Any and all streets not on the Powell Bill Map and any streets not otherwise
formally accepted by the town have not been recognized nor accepted by the town
and the town claims no interest in them.
(1991 Code, Title VI, Art. A, § 7)
§ 91.08  BEASTS ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall walk, lead or ride any horse, pony, mule or cow on any
sidewalk in the town.
(1991 Code, Title VI, Art. B, § 1)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92:  GENERAL NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Weeds, vegetation and trash
   
92.02   Litter and trash
   
92.03   Trash and recycling fees
§ 92.01  WEEDS, VEGETATION AND TRASH.
   (A)   Any person owning real property within the town is hereby required to
cut and remove therefrom all weeds and grass before it reaches a height of 12
inches, and to keep the property free from trash and refuse matter at all
times, provided, however, that the property owner shall not be required to cut
real property and remove therefrom all weeds and grass more than four times in
a calendar year.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Town Clerk to serve written notice by
certified mail at the last known address of every property owner who shall fail
or refuse to comply with the provisions of division (A) above requiring the
property owner to cut and remove all noxious weeks, bushes and grasses, and to
remove all trash or other refuse matter from the property within ten days from
the date of the notice. If any property owner served with the notice shall fail
or refuse to cut and remove all noxious weeds, bushes and grass, and remove all
trash or other refuse matter within ten days after the notice shall have been
given and served, the Mayor or a designee shall begin proceedings to have the
noxious weeds, bushes and grass, and all trash or other refuse matter cut and
removed from the property.
   (C)   The Town Clerk shall make a written report of the actual costs
incurred by the town in the cutting and removal of the noxious weeds, bushes
and grass, and the removal of all trash and other refuse matter from any lot
pursuant to this chapter, and shall deliver the report to the Board of
Aldermen.
   (D)   The owner of any lot upon which any noxious weeds, bushes and grass
shall be cut and removed, or upon which any trash or other refuse matter shall
be removed therefrom under the direction and supervision of the Board of
Aldermen or a designee, and after the required notice, shall have been given to
the property owner as provided in division (B) above, shall be liable to the
town for the actual costs incurred by the town in the cutting and removal. The
costs shall be charged against the property owner and shall be collected in the
same manner and at the same time as the ad valorem taxes of the owner are
collected, and the costs shall be a lien on the real property subject only to
the lien of the town and county ad valorem taxes thereon.
(1991 Code, Title X, § 2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02  LITTER AND TRASH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, firm or corporation to
dump, dispose of, litter or place trash, garbage or refuse of any kind on any
public property in the town, unless the same is placed in a receptacle placed
on the public property by authority from the town.
(1991 Code, Title X, § 10)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03  TRASH AND RECYCLING FEES.
   (A)   The Town of Grimesland Board of Alderman has borne the total expense
for the service of trash  and recycle since its inception into the town;
   (B)   The Town of Grimesland Board of Aldermen has determined that the cost
incurred by the town to provide service to the residents at no cost to them has
become an expense that the town is unable to continue to provide. This fee will
be passed on to the residents at a reduced price as negotiated by the town with
the Contractor;
   (C)   The town requires all residents (residential and commercial) to
receive this service, without exception. A deposit shall be required of all
recipients. The service wll be billed monthly under the RVS billing software;
   (D)   The Town Board of Aldermen hereby sets the trash and recycle fees,
effective July 1, 2018 as follows:
      (1)   Residential: $10;
      (2)   Commercial: $25; and
      (3)   Recycle deposit: $15.
(Res. 2017-18:008, passed 6-12-2018; Ord. 2017-18:001, passed 6-12-2018)
CHAPTER 93:  ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED VEHICLES
Section
   
93.01   Administration
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
93.04   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
93.05   Junked motor vehicle regulated; removal authorized
   
93.06   Removal of abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles; pre-towing
notice requirements
   
93.07   Exceptions to prior notice requirement
   
93.08   Removal of vehicles; post-towing notice requirements
   
93.09   Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle
   
93.10   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
93.11   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
93.12   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
93.13   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
93.14   Exceptions
   
93.15   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
§ 93.01  ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Pitt County Sheriff’s Department and Director of Maintenance of
the town shall be responsible for the administration and enforcement of this
chapter. The Pitt County Sheriff’s Department shall be responsible for
administering the removal and disposition of vehicles determined to be
“abandoned” on the public streets and highways within the town, and on property
owned by the town.
   (B)   The Director of Maintenance shall be responsible for administering the
removal and disposition of “abandoned”, “nuisance” or “junked motor vehicles”
located on private property.
   (C)   The town may, on an annual basis, contract with private tow truck
operators or towing businesses to remove, store and dispose of abandoned
vehicles, nuisance vehicles and junked motor vehicles in compliance with this
chapter and applicable state laws.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the legal
authority or powers of officers of the Pitt County Sheriff’s Department and the
Grimesland Volunteer Fire Department in enforcing other laws or in otherwise
carrying out their duties.
(1991 Code, Title IX, § 8A)
§ 93.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.  As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303, one that:
      (1)   It is upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   It is left on any public street or highway for longer than seven
days;
      (3)   It is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer
than 24 hours; or
      (4)   It is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof, for longer than two hours.
   AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL.  The supervisory employee of the Pitt County Sheriff’s
Department or the Director of Maintenance respectively, designated to authorize
the removal of vehicles under the provisions of this chapter.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE.  As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2, a
vehicle that does not display a current license plate lawfully upon that
vehicle and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved the manner in which it originally
was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $100.
   MOTOR VEHICLE OR VEHICLE.  All machines designed or intended to travel over
land by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propulsion or while
attached to any self-propelled vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE.  A vehicle on public or private property that is
determined and declared to be a health safety hazard, a public nuisance and
unlawful, including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste or any other rotten matter of any kind;
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; or
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the Town Board.
(1991 Code, Title IX, § 8B)
§ 93.03  ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow the vehicle to be abandoned as the
term is defined herein.
   (B)   Upon investigation, proper authorizing officials of the town may
determine that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(1991 Code, Title IX, § 8C)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.04  NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located to leave or allow the vehicle to
remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Director of Maintenance may determine and
declare that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle as
defined above, and order the vehicle removed.
(1991 Code, Title IX, § 8D)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05  JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to have more than one junked motor vehicle, as
defined herein, on the premises of public or private property. Single,
permitted junked motor vehicle must strictly comply with the location and
concealment requirements of this section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, person entitled to the possession
of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to fail to comply with
the locational requirements or the concealment requirements of this section.
   (D)   Subject to the provisions of division (E) below, upon investigation,
the Director of Maintenance may order the removal of a junked motor vehicle as
defined in this chapter after finding in writing that the aesthetic benefits of
removing the vehicle.
      (1)   The finding shall be based on a balancing of the monetary loss of
the apparent owner against the corresponding gain to the public by promoting or
enhancing community, neighborhood or area appearance.
      (2)   The following among other relevant factors may be considered:
         (a)   Protection of property values;
         (b)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development
opportunities;
         (c)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
         (d)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community;
and
         (e)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of
area residents.
   (E)   Permitted concealment or enclosure of junked motor vehicle:
      (1)   One junked motor vehicle, in its entirety, can be located in the
rear yard as defined by the town’s zoning ordinance if the junked motor vehicle
is entirely concealed from public view from a public street and from abutting
premises by an acceptable covering. The Director of Maintenance has the
authority to determine whether any junked motor vehicle is adequately concealed
as required by this provision. The covering must remain in good repair and must
not be allowed to deteriorate. The covering or enclosure must be compatible
with the objectives stated in the preamble of the ordinance from which this
chapter is derived; and
      (2)   More than one junked motor vehicle. Any other junked motor vehicle
(s) must be kept in a garage or building structure that provides a complete
enclosure so that the junked motor vehicle(s) cannot be seen from a public
street or abutting property. A garage or building structure means either a
lawful, nonconforming use or a garage or building structure erected pursuant to
the lawful issuance of a building permit and which has been constructed in
accordance with all zoning and building code regulations.
(1991 Code, Title IX, § 8E)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.06  REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, NUISANCE OR JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES; PRE-TOWING
NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as set forth in §
93.07, an abandoned, nuisance or junked vehicle which is to be removed shall be
towed only after notice to the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of the vehicle.
      (1)   In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a junked motor vehicle, if the
names and mailing addresses of the registered owner, or person entitled to the
possession of the vehicle, or the owner, lessee, or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located can be ascertained in the exercise
of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given by first class mail.
      (2)   The person who mails the notice(s) shall retain a written record to
show the name(s) and address(es) to which mailed, and the date mailed. If the
names and addressed cannot be ascertained or if the vehicle is to be removed is
an abandoned motor vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing on the windshield
or some other conspicuous place on the vehicle a notice indicating that the
vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified date (no sooner than seven
days after the notice is affixed).
      (3)   The notice shall state that the vehicle will be removed by the town
on a specified date, no sooner than seven days after the notice is affixed or
mailed, unless the vehicle is moved by the owner or legal possessor prior to
that time.
   (B)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked motor vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if
the registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the
vehicle but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned,
a nuisance vehicle or in the case of a junked motor vehicle that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, the appeal shall be made
to the Town Board in writing, heard at the next regularly scheduled meeting of
the Town Board, and further proceedings to remove the vehicle shall be stayed
until the appeal is heard and decided.
(1991 Code, Title IX, § 8F)
§ 93.07  EXCEPTIONS TO PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the
authorizing official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a
special need for prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to
otherwise maintain and protect the public safety and welfare.
   (B)   The findings shall, in all cases, be entered by the authorizing
official in the appropriate daily records.
   (C)   Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicles without prior notice
includes:
      (1)   Vehicles abandoned on the streets. For vehicles left on the public
streets and highways, the (governing body) hereby determines that immediate
removal of the vehicles may be warranted when they are:
         (a)   Obstructing traffic;
         (b)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
         (c)   Parked in a non-stopping or standing zone;
         (d)   Parked in loading zones;
         (e)   Parked in bus zones; or
         (f)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions imposed
under code sections.
      (2)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles. With respect to abandoned or
nuisance vehicles left on city-owned property other than the streets and
highways, and on private property, the vehicles may be removed without giving
prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorizing official finds a
special need for prompt action to protect and maintain the public health,
safety and welfare. By way of illustration and not of limitation, these
circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to
businesses and residences, vehicles parked in a location or manner as to pose a
traffic hazard, and vehicles causing damage to public or private property.
(1991 Code, Title IX, § 8G)
§ 93.08  REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which has been ordered
removed may, as directed by the town, be removed to a storage garage or area by
the tow truck operator or towing business contracting to perform the services
for the town.
   (B)   Whenever a vehicle is removed, the authorizing town official shall
immediately notify the last known registered owner of the vehicle, the notice
to include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (C)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or to the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, including the information set forth in divisions (B)(1) through (5)
above, shall also be mailed to the registered owner’s last known address,
unless this notice is waived in writing by the vehicle owner or his or her
agent.
   (D)   If the vehicle is registered in the state, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (E)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and the vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the
authorizing city official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify him or her of the information set forth in divisions
(B)(1) through (5) above.
(1991 Code, Title IX, § 8H)
§ 93.09  RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR FINAL DISPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle or junked motor,
the owner or any other person entitled to possession is entitled to a hearing
for the purpose of determining if probable cause existing for removing the
vehicle. A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the county
magistrate designated by the chief district court judge to receive the hearing
requests. The magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the
request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
G.S. § 20-219.11, as amended.
(1991 Code, Title IX, § 8I)
§ 93.10  REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of the fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing businesses
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow
or engage in further violations of this chapter.
(1991 Code, Title IX, § 8J)
§ 93.11  SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed
by the owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the
tow truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle.
   (B)   Disposition of the vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with
the town and in accordance with G.S. § 44A-1.
(1991 Code, Title IX, § 8K)
§ 93.12  CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   As a general policy, the town will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant or lessee of the property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures.
   (B)   In no case will a vehicle be removed by the town on private property
without a written request of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in those
cases where a vehicle is a nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which
has been ordered removed by the Director of Maintenance.
   (C)   The town may require any other person requesting the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle from private property to indemnify
the town against any loss, expense or liability incurred because of the
removal, storage or sale thereof.
(1991 Code, Title IX, § 8L)
§ 93.13  PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle, for disposing of the vehicle as provided in
this chapter.
(1991 Code, Title IX, § 8M)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.14  EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle:
   (A)   Which is located in a bona fide “automobile graveyard” or “junkyard”,
as defined in G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the “Junkyard Control Act”,
G.S. §§ 136-141 et seq.;
   (B)   Which is in an enclosed building;
   (C)   Which is on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a
lawful place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise; or
   (D)   Which is in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the town.
(1991 Code, Title IX, § 8N)
§ 93.15  UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the town any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this code unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of the fees, have been paid.
(1991 Code, Title IX, § 8O)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94:  NOISE REGULATIONS
Section
   
94.01   Adoption by reference
   
94.02   Enforcement of chapter
§ 94.01  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The county noise regulations are hereby adopted by reference, and
incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. passed 8-17-1992)
§ 94.02  ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   The Town Board has this date voted to request the County Commissioners to
include the corporate limits of the town in its enforcement of the noise
ordinance adopted by the county on August 17, 1992.
(Res. passed 1-12-1993)
CHAPTER 95:  ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
   
95.01   Applicability, enforcement of regulations
§ 95.01  APPLICABILITY, ENFORCEMENT OF REGULATIONS.
   The town hereby consents to the applicability of the County Animal Control
Ordinances within the boundaries of the town, and authorizes the enforcement
thereof by the officials of the county.
(Res. passed 11-10-2009)
CHAPTER 96:  YARD SALES
Section
   
96.01   Purpose
   
96.02   Definition
   
96.03   Regulations
§ 96.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the chapter is to regulate the operation of yard sales within
the jurisdiction of the Town of Grimesland.
(Ord. 2019-2020:004, passed 2-11-2020)
§ 96.02  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   YARD SALE. Shall mean and include all general sales, open to the public,
conducted from/or in a residential zone, for the purpose of disposing of
personal property.
(Ord. 2019-2020:004, passed 2-11-2020)
§ 96.03  REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All sale items shall consist of garage, lawn, yard, attic, porch,
patio, flea market and rummage items.
   (B)   Yard sale shall not exceed two consecutive days.
   (C)   Yard sale items shall be from sun-up to sun-down.
   (D)   Sales items shall be removed at sun-down on the second day.
   (E)   Commercial or industrial sale items shall not be allowed unless pre-
approved by Public Works Director.
(Ord. 2019-2020:004, passed 2-11-2020)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING
      
111.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
113.   POOL/GAME ROOMS
CHAPTER 110:  GENERAL LICENSING
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Setting annual license fee
   
110.02   Electronic gaming operation
   
110.03   Expiration date
Peddlers, Itinerant Merchants, and Solicitors
   
110.20   Definitions
   
110.21   License requirement
   
110.22   Application procedure
   
110.23   Standards for issuance
   
110.24   Revocation procedure
   
110.25   Standards for revocation
   
110.26   Appeal procedure
   
110.27   Exhibition of identification
   
110.28   Town policy on soliciting
   
110.29   Notice regulating soliciting
   
110.30   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
110.31   Prohibited solicitation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01  SETTING ANNUAL LICENSE FEE.
   At the regular August meeting of the Board, the annual license fee shall be
fixed pursuant to state law.
(1991 Code, Title VIII, § 2)  (Ord. 2015-16:001, passed 7-14-2015)
§ 110.02  ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATION.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATION or INTERNET SWEEPSTAKES OPERATIONS/CAFÉ.  Any
business enterprise, whether as a principal or accessory use, where persons
utilize electronic machines, including but not limited to computers and gaming
terminals (collectively the “machines”) to conduct games of chance including
sweepstakes, and where cash, merchandise or other items of value are redeemed
or otherwise distributed, whether or not the value of the distribution is
determined by electronic games played or by predetermined odds. ELECTRONIC
GAMING OPERATIONS may include, but are not limited to, internet cafes, internet
sweepstakes, electronic gaming machines/operations, or cyber cafes. This does
not include any lottery approved by the state or any nonprofit operation that
is otherwise lawful under state law (for example, church or civic organization
fundraisers).
   (B)   At all times while open for business and while patrons are on the
premises, electronic gaming operations shall be open for direct, unobstructed
access by police/sheriff officers, Fire Department and emergency response
personnel and shall be visible from the exterior front of the establishment.
Entrance doors shall remain unlocked at all times while patrons are on the
premises.
   (C)   No person or entity engaged in electronic gaming operations as defined
herein shall engage in the business before 9:00 a.m. or after 11:00 p.m. on
Sunday through Thursday and before 9:00 a.m. or after 1:00 a.m. the following
morning on Friday and Saturday.
   (D)   No electronic gaming establishment shall allow, permit or condone any
person under the age of 18 to engage in electronic gaming operations.
   (E)   Food or beverages (including alcoholic beverages) if served, the
establishment must meet the requirements of the County Health Services or the
appropriate State Agency and shall be disclosed at the time of application.
   (F)   Firearms are prohibited in electronic gaming establishments.
   (G)   Location: is allowed only in B-1 Commercial District.
   (H)   License fee is set in an amount as set by the Board from time to time
pursuant to state law.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2010; Ord. 2011-004, passed 12-13-2011; Ord. passed 7-10-
2012; Ord. 2015-16:001, passed 7-14-2015)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03  EXPIRATION DATE.
   Licenses issued shall expire on July 1 following their issuance unless
otherwise noted in writing.
(1991 Code, Title VIII, § 6)  (Ord. 2015-16:001, passed 7-14-2015)
PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
§ 110.20  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS.  The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS.  Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT.  Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the town and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the town.
   PEDDLER.  Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the town.
   SOLICITOR.  Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future.  A person who is a solicitor is not
a peddler.
§ 110.21  LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the town.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the Board of Aldermen.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.22  APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Clerk.  This application shall be signed by the applicant
if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the president if a
corporation.  The applicant may be requested to provide information concerning
the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the town;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual;
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock;
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application;
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant;
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the town, credentials from the person, if
any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C), a
statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.23  STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant's
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. 
In particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude; or
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application; or
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like; or
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application.
§ 110.24  REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the Clerk
after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
110.25.  Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing.  Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 110.25  STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
or
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license; or
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter; or
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 110.26  APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
110.23 or
110.25 shall have the right to appeal to the Board of Aldermen.  The appeal
shall be taken by filing with the Board of Aldermen, within 14 days after
notice of the decision has been mailed to such person's last known address, a
written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal.  The Board of Aldermen
shall set the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall
be given to such person in the same manner as provided in §
110.24.
   (B)   The order of the Board of Aldermen after the hearing shall be final.
§ 110.27  EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein.  In the event more
than one place within the town shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor licensed
under this chapter.  The license shall contain the words “Licensed Peddler” or
“Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license, and the number of the
license.  The license shall be kept with the licensee during such time as he is
engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.28 TOWN POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the town that the occupants of the
residences in the town shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall
be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 110.29  NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
   “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 110.30  DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the town upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
110.29 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.31  PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
110.29 above.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111:  CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
111.01   Granting of franchise and agreements
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Compliance with laws, regulations and ordinances
   
111.04   Grantee liability, indemnification, worker’s compensation and
insurance coverage
   
111.05   Use of roads, highways and dedicated easements
   
111.06   Public service and educational service
   
111.07   Maintenance of the CATV system
   
111.08   Rates
   
111.09   Franchise fee
   
111.10   Records and reports
   
111.11   Duration of franchise
   
111.12   Assignment for financing
   
111.13   Separability
   
111.14   Necessity of franchise
   
111.15   Limitations on franchise agreement
§ 111.01  GRANTING OF FRANCHISE AND AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   The town is hereby allowed to grant a non-exclusive franchise license
within the territory, for the construction, operation and maintenance of a CATV
system, upon the terms and conditions established by this chapter.
   (B)   The grantee shall have the right to enter into arrangements for the
attachment onto and the use of facilities owned and operated by public
utilities operating within the territory whereby the grantee shall strictly
comply with the terms, provisions and restrictions of the agreements.
(1991 Code, Title VIII, § 5A)
§ 111.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF ALDERMEN.  The governing body of the Town of Grimesland, North
Carolina.
   COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION SYSTEM (CATV SYSTEM).  A system of antennas,
cables, wires, lines, towers, microwaves, waveguides, laser beams, satellite
dishes or any other conductors, converters, equipment of facilities designed,
constructed or operated for the purpose of producing, receiving, amplifying,
modifying and distributing audio, video and other forms of electronics or
electrical signals to and from subscribers and locations within the territory.
   FCC.  Federal Communications Commission.
   FRANCHISE.  The authorization granted hereunder of a franchise, privilege,
permit license or otherwise to construct, operate and maintain a CATV system
within the territory.
   GRANTEE.  The person, firm or corporation to whom or to which a franchise is
granted by the Board or anyone who succeeds the person, firm or corporation in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   GROSS SUBSCRIBER REVENUE.  Total revenue received by grantee from monthly
service charges to subscribers within the territory, before any expense or
deductions are made.
   STREETS AND DEDICATED EASEMENTS.  The public streets, avenues, highways,
boulevards, concourses, driveways, bridges, tunnels, parks, parkways,
waterways, alleys, all other public rights-of-way and easements, and the public
grounds, places or water within or belonging to the town.
   TERRITORY.  The Town of Grimesland, North Carolina.
(1991 Code, Title VIII, § 5B)
§ 111.03  COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS, REGULATIONS AND ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The grantee shall at all times during the term of this chapter be
subject to all lawful exercise of the power of the Town Board of Aldermen and
to other reasonable regulation as the town shall hereafter by resolution or
ordinance provide.
   (B)   The construction, operation and maintenance of the CATV system by the
grantee shall be in full compliance with the National Electric Code currently
in force and in full compliance with all other applicable rules, and
regulations now in effect or hereafter adopted by the FCC, the town, the state
and the U.S. government.
   (C)   Any modification of FCC rules which affect a franchise granted
pursuant to this chapter shall be incorporated into the franchise within one
year of adoption by the FCC or at the time of franchise renewal, whichever,
occurs first.
(1991 Code, Title VIII, § 5C)
§ 111.04  GRANTEE LIABILITY, INDEMNIFICATION, WORKER’S COMPENSATION AND
INSURANCE COVERAGE.
   (A)   The grantee shall save the town harmless from all loss sustained by
the town on account of any suit, judgement, execution, claim or demand
whatsoever arising out of the construction, operation and maintenance of the
CATV system by the grantee. The grantee shall agree to maintain and keep in
full force and effect at all times during the term of the franchise and during
any operation by it of the CATV system sufficient liability insurance coverage
to protect the town against the claims, suits, judgments, executions or demands
in a sum in an amount as set by the Board from time to time per person in any
one claim: one million dollars as to any one accident or occurrence, and not
less than an amount as set by the Board from time to time for property damage
as to any one accident or occurrence.
   (B)   The grantee shall also maintain in full force and effect throughout
the term of its franchise and during any operation by it of the CATV system
sufficient worker’s compensation insurance coverage to adequately and fully
protect its agents and employees as required by law.
(1991 Code, Title VIII, § 5D)
§ 111.05  USE OF ROADS, HIGHWAYS AND DEDICATED EASEMENTS.
   (A)   The grantee shall have the right to use the roads, highways and
dedicated easements of the town for the construction, operation and maintenance
of CATV system, subject to the terms and conditions of this chapter and the
franchise agreement entered into pursuant hereto.
   (B)   The grantee, at its own cost, shall have the right pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter or the franchise agreement entered into pursuant
thereto, to construct, erect, suspend, install, renew, maintain and otherwise
own and operate throughout the territory in, upon, along, across, above, over
and under the highways, roads, easements, public ways and public places as now
laid out or dedicated and all extensions thereof and additions thereto in the
territory, a system of poles, wires, cables, underground conduits, ducts,
trenches, conductors, amplifying equipment, manhole fittings and any and all
other fixtures, appliances and appurtenances necessary for the installation,
ownership, maintenance and operation in the territory of the CATV system,
either separately or in conjunction with any public utility or other cable
company maintaining the same in the territory. This franchise shall further
include the right, privilege, easement and authority to construct, erect,
suspend, install, lay, renew, repair, maintain and operate the poles, wires,
cables, underground conduits, manholes, ducts, trenches, fixtures, appliances,
and appurtenances for the purpose of distribution to inhabitants within the
territory. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the franchise
shall and does include the right in, over and upon roads, highways, sidewalks,
easements, public grounds and places in the territory for the purpose of
installing, erecting, operating or in any way acquiring the use of, as by
leasing all poles, lines and equipment necessary to operate a CATV system and
the right to make connections to subscribers, the right to repair, replace and
enlarge and extend the lines, equipment and connections; provided that the
grantee shall utilize the facilities of utilities whenever practicable.
   (C)   The grantee shall have the right to remove, trim, cut and keep clear
of its poles, lowers, wires and other overhead appliances and equipment, the
trees in and along the streets, alleys and other public places of the
territory; provided, however, that in the exercise of the rights, the grantee
shall not cut, remove, trim or otherwise injure the trees to any greater extent
than is necessary for the installation, maintenance and use of the poles,
towers, wires or other overhead appliances.
   (D)   The grantee, in the exercise of any rights granted to it under this
chapter or the franchise agreement entered into pursuant hereto, shall at no
cost to the town, promptly repair or replace any facility or service of the
town which grantee damages, including, but not limited to, any street, alley or
other public place, sewer, electric, water, fire alarm, police communication or
traffic control, by the exercise of its rights hereunder.
(1991 Code, Title VIII, § 5E)
§ 111.06  PUBLIC SERVICE AND EDUCATIONAL SERVICE.
   The grantee shall provide basic cable service without monthly service charge
to all town offices and schools and to all town fire, rescue and ambulance
stations and hospitals, provided the lines of the CATV system pass the
facilities in the normal course of business.
(1991 Code, Title VIII, § 5F)
§ 111.07  MAINTENANCE OF THE CATV SYSTEM.
   (A)   The grantee shall engineer, install, maintain, operate and equip the
CATV system herein provided so as to meet the technical standards of the
Federal Communications Commission, and shall at all times employ ordinary care
in the maintenance and operation of the CATV system.
   (B)   The CATV system shall at all times be kept in good repair and safe and
acceptable condition and the repairs shall be made promptly.
   (C)   The grantee shall investigate and resolve all subscriber complaints
regarding the quality of service, equipment malfunctions and similar matters
expeditiously and in accordance with the following procedure:
      (1)   The grantee shall, during normal working hours, have qualified
personnel available to investigate and resolve subscriber complaints;
      (2)   Upon notification of a service complaint, the grantee shall
dispatch a qualified employee to investigate the complaint and adjust, repair
or replace equipment as necessary to resolve the complaint. The grantee shall
not be responsible for malfunctions in any subscriber’s radio or television
receiver; and
      (3)   Complaints shall be investigated and resolved within 24 hours of
notification and the grantee shall maintain a service log in which entries of
each complaint, the date received, the nature of the complaint and time means
by which it was resolved shall be kept.
(1991 Code, Title VIII, § 5G)
§ 111.08  RATES.
   Residential rates for installation and monthly television service shall be
designed to meet all necessary costs of the service, including a fair rate of
return on the net evaluation of the grantee’s property devoted thereto under
efficient and economical management, and shall be as set in the rate schedule
filed by the grantee with the Town Clerk. The grantee may collect a reasonable
security deposit from each non-governmental subscriber.
(1991 Code, Title VIII, § 5H)
§ 111.09  FRANCHISE FEE.
   The grantee shall pay to the town the franchise fees as required by contract
until the expiration of the contract. The state distributes appropriate fees to
the town based on the state’s criteria for distribution.  All existing payment
shall be paid to the town from the contract quarterly until expiration of the
contract(s).
(1991 Code, Title VIII, § 5I)
§ 111.10  RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The town shall have access at all reasonable hours to all the grantee’s
plans, contracts, engineering, accounting, financial, statistical, customer and
service records relating to the property and operation of the CATV system
within the territory by the grantee and to other records as may be required by
the town. An annual summary report showing gross revenue received by the
grantee from the operation within the territory for the preceding 12 months’
period and information as the town may require in support of the same shall be
given to the town by the grantee.
(1991 Code, Title VIII, § 5J)
§ 111.11  DURATION OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Any initial franchise granted pursuant to this chapter may be granted
for a period not to exceed 15 years and extensions and renewals hereof shall be
in accordance with federal, state and local law including the provisions of the
Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984.
   (B)   The town may terminate any franchise and all rights under this chapter
at any time upon the determination that the grantee has:
      (1)   Breached any material terms or conditions of this chapter or the
franchise, whether by act or omission;
      (2)   Made an assignment for the benefit of creditors, been adjudicated,
bankrupt or insolvent, or filed a petition under the bankruptcy laws of the
United States; or
      (3)   Failed to provide services to the citizens of the town under the
terms of the franchise granted, recognizing the fact that this is a non-
exclusive franchise with no mandatory obligations to serve any particular part
of the town or the entire territory.
   (C)   The determination to terminate shall be made after the town has given
the grantee 60-days’ advance written notice that it is considering the same and
a subsequent 60-day period to cure the breach set forth in the written notice.
The town may call a public hearing on the question of termination of the
franchise and call witnesses and present evidence at the public hearing. At the
public hearing, the grantee shall be entitled to call witnesses, present
evidence and cross-examine witnesses called by the town. The town and the
grantee shall bear their own legal costs in connection with any proceeding.
(1991 Code, Title VIII, § 5K)
§ 111.12  ASSIGNMENT FOR FINANCING.
   The grantee may assign or hypothecate its interest in this franchise or the
assets of the CATV system to a financial institution for the purpose of
obtaining financing; provided, however that, funds obtained from the financing
shall be utilized in the construction and operation of a cable television
system.
(1991 Code, Title VIII, § 5L)
§ 111.13  SEPARABILITY.
   In the event that any section of this chapter or the franchise shall be held
invalid or in conflict with mandatory FCC regulations, the part shall be deemed
to be of not effect and the invalidity shall not affect the remaining sections
or portions of this chapter.
(1991 Code, Title VIII, § 5M)
§ 111.14  NECESSITY OF FRANCHISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, operate or construct a cable
television system in the town except pursuant to a franchise agreement granting
the right to do so between the town and the grantee, which agreement shall be
subject to the terms of this chapter, as amended from time to time.
(1991 Code, Title VIII, § 5N)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.15  LIMITATIONS ON FRANCHISE AGREEMENT.
   (A)   The rights granted by the franchise agreement shall be subject to all
franchise and permits heretofore granted by the Town Board of Aldermen to use
of streets of the town by other public utilities or public service
corporations.
   (B)   It is not intended by the franchise agreement provided by this chapter
to abridge the exercise of the police power heretofore or hereafter granted to
the town by the General Assembly.
   (C)   The grant of a franchise license to the grantee shall be subject to
all ordinances and resolutions of the Town Board of Aldermen as the same now or
may hereafter exist in the lawful exercise of any power granted to the town by
the General Assembly.
(1991 Code, Title VIII, § 5O)
CHAPTER 112:  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
112.01   Sale of beer
§ 112.01  SALE OF BEER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell any beer, either in bottles,
glasses or other containers, in the town, except as provided by the General
Statutes of the state.
(1991 Code, Title X, § 6)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113:  POOL/GAME ROOMS
Section
   
113.01   Pool/game rooms
§ 113.01  POOL/GAME ROOMS.
   No person operating a pocket billiard, poolroom or game room in the town
shall be allowed to play on any table when the place is closed, or unattended.
It shall be unlawful for any person owning or operating a pocket billiard,
poolroom or game room in the town to allow or permit any person under 16 years
of age to loiter in the pocket billiard, poolroom or game room unless
accompanied by his or her parent or guardian. In the event the keeper of the
billiard, poolroom or game room is of the opinion that any person desiring
admission thereto is under 16 years of age, he or she shall require the person
to furnish proof of his or her age by use of either a birth certificate or
driver’s license.
(1991 Code, Title X, § 7)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   WEAPONS
      
131.   PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 130:  WEAPONS
Section
   
130.01   Discharge of firearms
§ 130.01  DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   Anyone who shall intentionally discharge a firearm within the corporate
limits of the town shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished in
accordance with the state’s General Statutes.
(1991 Code, Title X, § 8)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131:  PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
Section
   
131.01   Loitering
§ 131.01  LOITERING.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity.  Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object.  Unless
flight by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police
officer shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford
the person an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be
warranted, by requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to
explain his or her presence or conduct.  No person shall be convicted of an
offense under this section if the police officer did not comply with the
preceding sentence, or if it appears at trial that the explanation given by the
person was true and, if it had been believed by the police officer at the time,
would have dispelled the alarm.  Any police officer may arrest any person
suspected of being a loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably
appears that the delay in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant
would result in the suspect's escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon.  It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct, or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACEhas the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning:  an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not), and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
153.   ZONING CODE
      
154.   FENCES AND WALLS
CHAPTER 150:  MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
Section
   
150.01   Purpose
   
150.02   Definitions
   
150.03   Fitness for dwellings and dwelling units
   
150.04   Minimum standards for structural condition
   
150.05   Basic plumbing, heating and electrical equipment facilities
   
150.06   Ventilation
   
150.07   Space, use and location
   
150.08   Safe and sanitary maintenance
   
150.09   Control of insects, rodents and infestations
   
150.10   Standards applicable to rooming houses; exceptions
   
150.11   Responsibilities of owners and occupants
   
150.12   Powers and duties of Minimum Housing Code Enforcement Officer
   
150.13   Inspections; duty of owners and occupants
   
150.14   Procedure for enforcement
   
150.15   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
150.16   In rem action by officer; placarding
   
150.17   Costs a lien on premises
   
150.18   Alternative remedies
   
150.19   Zoning Board of Adjustment to hear appeals
   
150.20   Conflict with other provisions
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01  PURPOSE.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-441, it is hereby declared that there exist,
in the town dwellings which are unfit for human habitation due to dilapidation,
defects, increasing the hazards of fire, accidents and other calamities; lack
of ventilation, light and sanitary facilities; and other conditions rendering
the dwellings unsafe or unsanitary, dangerous and detrimental to the health,
safety and morals and otherwise inimical to the welfare of the residents of the
town.
   (B)   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the town, as authorized by Part 6 of G.S. § 160A-19, it is the purpose of this
chapter to establish minimum standards of fitness for the initial and continued
occupancy of all buildings for human habitation, as expressly authorized by
G.S. § 160A-444.
(Ord. passed 3-9-1993)
§ 150.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASEMENT.  A portion of a dwelling which is located partly underground,
having direct access to light and air from windows located above the level of
the adjoining ground.
   CELLAR.  A portion of dwelling which is located partly or wholly underground
having an adequate access to light and air from windows located partly or
wholly below the level of the adjoining ground.
   DETERIORATED.  That a dwelling is unfit for human habitation and can be
repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the standards established
by this chapter at a cost not in excess of 50% of its value, as determined by
finding of the Officer.
   DILAPIDATED.  That a dwelling is unfit for human habitation and cannot be
repaired, altered or improved to comply with all the minimum standards
established by this chapter except at a copy in excess of 50% of its value, as
determined by finding of the Officer.
   DWELLING.  Any building, structure or part thereof which is wholly or partly
used or intended to be used for living, sleeping or habitation by human
occupants, and includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or
usually enjoyed therewith. Temporary housing, as hereinafter defined, shall not
be regarded as a DWELLING. The term shall include within its meaning the terms
ROOMING HOUSING UNIT, as hereafter defined.
   DWELLING UNIT.  Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   EXTERMINATION.  The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by removing or making inaccessible materials that may serve as their
food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating or trapping; or by any other
recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved by the Officer.
   GARBAGE.  The organic waste resulting from the handling, preparation,
cooking and consumption of food.
   GENDER.  Words having a masculine gender shall include the feminine and
neuter genders.
   HABITABLE ROOM.  A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers or communicating
corridors, closets and storage spaces.
   INFESTATION.  The presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents or other pests in a number as to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or welfare of the occupants or the public.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING.  Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT.  Any person over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in, or having actual possession of a dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming
unit.
   OFFICER.  The Minimum Housing Code Enforcement Officer of the town, or any
authorized agent of the OFFICER.
   OPERATOR.  Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or part
thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
   OWNER.  Any person who, alone, jointly or severally with others:
      (1)   Shall have title to any dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit,
with or without accompanying actual possession thereof;
      (2)   Shall be a mortgagee of record for any dwelling, dwelling unit or
rooming unit; or
      (3)   Shall have charge, care or control of any dwelling, dwelling unit
or rooming unit, as owner or agent of the actual owner, or as executor,
executrix, administratrix, trustee or guardian of the estate of the actual
owner. Any person thus representing the actual OWNER shall be bound to comply
with the provisions of this chapter, and of rules and regulations adopted
pursuant thereto, to the same extent as if he or she were the owner.
   PARTY or PARTIES IN INTEREST.  All persons who have interests of record in
dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit and any persons who are in possession
thereof.
   PERSON.  Any individual, corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization or other legal entity.
   PLUMBING.  And include all of the following supplies facilities and
equipment: gas pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes, mechanical garbage
disposal units (mechanical sink grinders), sewage disposal pipes, water
closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths,
installed clothes washing machines, catch basins, drains, vents and other
similar supplied fixture, together with all connections to water, sewer or gas
lines.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY.  The Town Housing Authority or any officer who is in
charge of any department or branch of the government of town of or county or
the state relating to health, fire, building regulations or other activities
concerning dwellings in the town.
   ROOMING HOUSE.  Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing one or
more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to three or
more persons who are not husband or wife, son or daughter, mother or father, or
sister or brother of the owner or operator.
   ROOMING UNIT.  Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   RUBBISH.  Non-organic waste materials. The term shall include paper, rags,
cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard
trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter, glass and dust.
   SUPPLIED.  Paid for, furnished or provided by, or under the control of, the
owner or operator.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING.  Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure, or to any utilities system on the same premises
for more than 30 consecutive days.
   UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION.  That conditions exist in a dwelling, dwelling
unit, rooming house or rooming unit which violate or do not comply with one or
more of the minimum standards of fitness or one or more of the requirements
established by this chapter.
   WORDS HAVING CERTAIN MEANING.  Whenever the words “dwelling unit”, “rooming
house” or “premises” are used in this chapter, they shall be construed as
though they were followed by the words “or any part thereof”.
(Ord. passed 3-9-1993)
§ 150.03  FITNESS FOR DWELLINGS AND DWELLING UNITS.
   (A)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit used as a human habitation, or held
out for use as a human habitation, shall comply with all of the minimum
standards of fitness for human habitation and all the requirements of §§
150.04 through
150.09.
   (B)   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant, or let to another for
occupancy or use as a human habitation, any dwelling or dwelling unit which
does not comply with all of the minimum standards of fitness for human
habitation and all of the requirements of §§
150.04 through
150.09.
(Ord. passed 3-9-1993)
§ 150.04  MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR STRUCTURAL CONDITION.
   The following standards shall constitute the minimum standards for
structural condition of a dwelling or dwelling unit:
   (A)   Walls or partitions or supporting members, sills, joists, rafters or
other structural members shall not list, lean or buckle, and shall not be
rotted, deteriorated or damaged, and shall not have holes or cracks which might
admit rodents;
   (B)   Floors or roof shall have adequate supporting members and strength to
be reasonably safe for the purpose used;
   (C)   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation supports
shall not be deteriorated or damaged;
   (D)   Steps, stairs, landings, porches or other parts or appurtenances shall
be maintained in a condition so that they will not fail or collapse;
   (E)   Adequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic shall be
provided;
   (F)   Interior walls and ceilings of all rooms, closets and hallways shall
be furnished of suitable materials, which will, by use of reasonable household
methods, promote sanitation and cleanliness, and shall be maintained in a
manner so as to enable the occupants to maintain reasonable privacy between
various spaces;
   (G)   The roof, flashing, exterior walls, basement walls, floors and all
doors and windows exposed to the weather shall be constructed and maintained so
as to be weather-tight and water-tight;
   (H)   There shall be no chimneys or parts thereof which are defective,
deteriorated or in danger of falling, or in a condition or location as to
constitute a fire hazard; and
   (I)   There shall be no use of the ground for floors, or wood floors on the
ground.
(Ord. passed 3-9-1993)
§ 150.05  BASIC PLUMBING, HEATING AND ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   Plumbing system.
      (1)   Each dwelling unit shall be connected to the town potable water
supply and to the town public sewer.
      (2)   Each dwelling unit shall contain not less than a kitchen sink,
lavatory, tub or shower, water closet and adequate supply of both cold water
and hot water. All water shall be supplied through an approved pipe
distribution system connected to the town potable water supply.
      (3)   All plumbing fixtures shall meet the standards of the State
Plumbing Code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in good
working order.
      (4)   All required plumbing fixtures shall be located within the dwelling
unit and be accessible to the occupants of same. The water closet and tub or
shower shall be located in a room or rooms affording privacy to the user.
   (B)   Heating system. Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall have facilities
for providing heat in accordance with the following:
      (1)   Central and electric heating system: every central or electric
heating system shall be of sufficient capacity to heat all habitable rooms,
bathrooms and water closet compartments in every dwelling unit to which it is
connected with a minimum temperature of 70°F measured at a point three feet
above the floor during ordinary winter conditions; and
      (2)   Other heating facilities: where a central or electric heating
system is not provided, each dwelling and dwelling unit shall be provided with
sufficient fireplaces, chimneys, flues, gas vents or other facilities to which
heating appliances may be connected to heat all habitable rooms with a minimum
temperature of 70°F measured three feet above the floor during ordinary winter
conditions.
   (C)   Electrical system.
      (1)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall be wired for electric lights
and convenience receptacles. Every habitable room shall contain at least two
floor or wall-type electric convenience receptacles, connected in a manner as
determined by the State Electrical Code. They shall be installed in every
bathroom, water closet room, laundry room and furnace room, at least one
supplied ceiling or wall-type electric light fixture. In the event wall or
ceiling light fixtures are not provided in any habitable room then each
habitable room shall contain at least three floor or wall-type electric
convenience receptacles.
      (2)   Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling shall be
adequately lighted by electric lights at all times when natural daylight is not
sufficient.
      (3)   All fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall be maintained
in a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used, and installed in
accordance with the State Electrical Code.
(Ord. passed 3-9-1993)
§ 150.06  VENTILATION.
   (A)   General. Every habitable room shall have at least one window or
skylight facing directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area,
measured between stops, for every habitable room shall be 10% of the floor area
of the room. Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a window or
any room and the light-obstructing structures are located less than five feet
from the window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room,
the window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors, and shall not
be included as contributing to the required minimum total window area. Whenever
the only window in a room is a skylight-type window in the top of the room, the
total window area of the skylight shall equal at least 15% of the total floor
area of the room.
   (B)   Habitable rooms. Every habitable room shall have at least one window
or skylight which can easily be opened, or other device as will adequately
ventilate the room. The total openable window area in every habitable room
shall be equal to at least 45% of the minimum window area size or minimum
skylight-type window size as required, or shall have other approved, equivalent
ventilation.
   (C)   Bathroom and water closet rooms. Every bathroom and water closet
compartment shall comply with the light and ventilation requirements for
habitable rooms except that no window or skylight shall be required in
adequately ventilated bathrooms and water closet rooms equipped with an
approved ventilation system.
(Ord. passed 3-9-1993)
§ 150.07  SPACE, USE AND LOCATION.
   (A)   Room sizes.
      (1)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least the minimum room size in
each habitable room as required by the State Residential Building Code.
      (2)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square feet of
habitable floor area for the first occupant, at least 100 square feet of
additional habitable area for each of the next three occupants, and at least 75
square feet of additional habitable floor area for each additional occupant.
      (3)   In every dwelling unit and in every rooming unit, every room
occupied for sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square
feet of floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than
one occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each
occupant 12 years of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor for each
occupant under 12 years of age.
   (B)   Ceiling height. At least one-half of the floor area of every habitable
room shall have a ceiling height of not less than seven feet six inches.
   (C)   Floor area calculation. Floor area shall be calculated on the basis of
habitable room area. However, closet area and wall area within the dwelling
unit may count for not more than 10% of the required habitable floor area. The
floor area of any part of any room where the ceiling height is less than four
and one-half feet shall not be considered as part of the floor area for the
purpose of determining maximum permissible occupancy.
   (D)   Cellar. No cellar shall be used for living purposes.
   (E)   Basements. No basement shall be used for living purposes unless:
      (1)   The floor and walls are substantially watertight;
      (2)   The total window area, total openable window area and ceiling
height are equal to those required for habitable rooms; and
      (3)   The required minimum window area of every habitable room is
entirely above the grade adjoining the window area, except where the window or
windows face a stairwell, window well or accessway.
(Ord. passed 3-9-1993)
§ 150.08  SAFE AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Exterior foundation, walls and roofs. Every foundation wall, exterior
wall and exterior roof shall be substantially weather-tight and rodent-proof;
shall be kept in sound condition and good repair; shall be capable of affording
privacy; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load which
normal use would cause to be placed thereon. Every exterior wall shall be
protected with paint or other protective covering to prevent the entrance or
penetration of moisture or the weather.
   (B)   Interior floors, walls and ceilings. Every floor, interior wall and
ceiling shall be substantially rodent proof; shall be kept in sound condition
and good repair; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load
which normal use would cause to be placed thereon.
   (C)   Stairs, porches and appurtenances. Every outside and inside stair,
porch and any appurtenance thereto shall be safe to use and capable of
supporting the load that normal use would cause to be placed thereon and shall
be kept in sound condition and good repair.
   (D)   Windows and doors. Every window, exterior door, basement or cellar
door and hatchway shall be substantially weather-tight, water-tight and rodent-
proof and shall be kept in sound working condition and good repair.
   (E)   Bathroom floors. Every bathroom floor surface and water closet
compartment floor surface shall be constructed and maintained so that it will
be reasonably impervious to water and will permit the floor to be easily kept
in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (F)   Supplied facilities. Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or
utility which is required under this chapter shall be so constructed or
installed that it will function safely and effectively and shall be maintained
in satisfactory working condition.
   (G)   Drainage. Every yard shall be properly graded in order to obtain
thorough drainage and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water.
   (H)   Weeds. Every yard and all exterior property areas shall be kept free
of species of weeds or plant growth which are detrimental to health.
   (I)   Egress. Every dwelling unit shall be provided with adequate means of
egress as required by the State Residential Building Code.
(Ord. passed 3-9-1993)
§ 150.09  CONTROL OF INSECTS, RODENTS AND INFESTATIONS.
   (A)   Screens. In every dwelling unit, for protection against mosquitoes,
flies and other insects, every door opening directly from a dwelling unit to
outdoor space shall be equipped with screens and a self-closing device. Every
window or other device with opening to outdoor space, used or intended to be
used for ventilation, shall likewise be equipped with screens.
   (B)   Rodent control. Every basement or cellar window used or intended to be
used for ventilation, and every other opening to a basement which might provide
an entry for rodents, shall be equipped with screens or other approved device
as will effectively prevent their entrance.
   (C)   Infestation. Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling
unit shall be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or
other pests therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit
in a dwelling containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for
the extermination whenever his or her dwelling unit is the only one infested.
Whenever infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling
in a rodent proof condition, extermination shall be the responsibility of the
owner. Whenever infestation exists in two or more of the dwelling units,
extermination shall be the responsibility of the owner.
   (D)   Rubbish storage and disposal. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit
shall be supplied with approved containers and covers for storage of rubbish as
required by town ordinances; and the owner, operator or agent in control of the
dwelling or dwelling unit shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
   (E)   Garbage storage and disposal. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit
shall be supplied with an approved garbage disposal facility, which may be an
adequate mechanical garbage disposal unit (mechanical sink grinder) in each
dwelling unit, or an approved outside garbage can as required by town
ordinances.
(Ord. passed 3-9-1993)
§ 150.10  STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ROOMING HOUSES; EXCEPTIONS.
   All of the provisions of this chapter, and all of the minimum standards and
requirements of this chapter, shall be applicable to rooming houses, and to
every person who operates a rooming house, or who occupies or lets to another
for occupancy any rooming house, except as provided in the following.
   (A)   Water closet, hand lavatory and bath facilities. At least one water
closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower, properly connected to an approved
water and sewer system and in good working condition, shall be supplied for
each four rooms within a rooming house whenever these facilities are shared.
All the facilities shall be located within the residence building served and
shall be directly accessible from a common hall or passageway, and shall be not
more than one story removed from any of the persons sharing the facilities.
Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be supplied with hot and cold
water at all times. The required facilities shall not be located in a cellar.
   (B)   Minimum floor area for sleeping purposes. Every room occupied for
sleeping purposes alone by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet
of floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one
occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each occupant
12 years of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor area for each
occupant 12 years of age.
   (C)   Sanitary conditions. The operator of every rooming house shall be
responsible for the sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors and ceilings, and
for the sanitary maintenance of every other part of the rooming house. He or
she shall be further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire
premises where the entire structure or building within which the rooming house
is contained is leased or occupied by the operator.
   (D)   Sanitary facilities. Every water closet, flush urinal, lavatory basin
and bathtub or shower required by division (A) above shall be located within
the rooming house and within a room or rooms which afford privacy, are separate
from the habitable rooms, are accessible from a common hall and are accessible
without going outside the rooming house or through any other room therein.
(Ord. passed 3-9-1993)
§ 150.11  RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Public areas. Every owner of a dwelling containing two or more
dwelling units shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary
condition the shared or public areas of dwelling and premises thereof.
   (B)   Cleanliness. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall keep
in a clean and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling, dwelling unit and
premises thereof which he or she occupies and controls.
   (C)   Rubbish and garbage. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit
shall dispose of all his or her rubbish and garbage in a clean and sanitary
manner by placing it in the supplied storage facilities. In all cases, the
owner shall be responsible for the availability of rubbish and garbage storage
facilities.
   (D)   Supplied plumbing fixtures. Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall
keep all supplied plumbing fixtures therein in a clean and sanitary condition
and shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable care in the proper use
and operation of the same.
   (E)   Care of facilities, equipment and structure. No occupant shall
willfully destroy, deface or impair any of the facilities or equipment, or any
part of the structure of dwelling or dwelling unit.
(Ord. passed 3-9-1993)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.12  POWERS AND DUTIES OF MINIMUM HOUSING CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   The Minimum Housing Code Enforcement Officer is hereby designated as
the officer to enforce the provisions of this chapter and to exercise the
duties and powers herein prescribed.
   (B)   The Officer is authorized to exercise powers as may be necessary or
convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose of provision of this
chapter.
   (C)   The Officer shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   To investigate the dwelling conditions, and to inspect dwellings
and dwelling units located in the town, in order to determine which dwellings
and dwelling units are unfit for human habitation, and for the purpose of
carrying out the objectives of this chapter with respect to the repair, closing
or demolition of the dwellings and dwelling units;
      (2)   To take action, together with other appropriate departments and
agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect rehabilitation of
housing which is deteriorated;
      (3)   To keep a record of the results of inspections made under this
chapter and an inventory of those dwellings that do not meet the minimum
standards of fitness herein prescribed;
      (4)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
      (5)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examination
inspections, provided the entries shall be made in accordance with §
150.14 and the state law, and shall be made in a manner as to cause the least
possible inconvenience to the persons in possession;
      (6)   To appoint and fix the duties of the officers, and agents and
employees as he or she deems necessary to assist in carrying out the purposes
of this chapter, and to delegate any of his functions and powers to the
officers, agents and employees; and
      (7)   To perform other duties as may be prescribed herein or by the Town
Board of Aldermen.
(Ord. passed 3-9-1993)
§ 150.13  INSPECTIONS; DUTY OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of making inspections, the Officer is hereby
authorized to enter, examine and survey at all reasonable times all dwellings,
dwelling units, rooming units and the premises associated therewith. The owner
or occupant of every dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming unit or
the person in charge thereof shall give the Officer free access to the dwelling
and its premises at all reasonable times for the purposes of the inspection,
examination and survey.
   (B)   Every occupant of dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming
unit shall give the owner thereof, or his or her agent or employee, access to
any part of the dwelling or dwelling unit and its premises at all reasonable
times for the purposes of making repairs or alterations as are necessary to
effect compliance with the provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-9-1993)
§ 150.14  PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation; notice; hearing. Whenever a petition is
filed with the Officer by a public authority, or by at least five residents of
the town charging that any dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for human
habitation, he or she shall, if his or her preliminary investigation discloses
a basis for the charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner of and
parties in interest in the dwelling or dwelling unit a complaint, stating the
charges and containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the Officer
at a place therein fixed, not less than ten nor more than 30 days after the
serving of the complaint. The owner or any party in interest shall have the
right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise,
and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint. Notice of the
hearing shall also be given to at least one of the persons signing a petition
relating to the dwelling. Any person desiring to do so may attend the hearing
and give evidence relevant to the matter being heard. The rules of evidence
prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings
before the Officer.
   (B)   Procedure after hearing.
      (1)   After the notice and hearing, the Officer shall state in writing
his or her determination whether the dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for
human habitation, and if so, whether it is deteriorated or dilapidated.
      (2)   If the Officer determines that the dwelling or dwelling unit is
deteriorated, he or she shall state in writing his or her finding of fact in
support of the determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the
owner thereof an order directing and requiring the owner to repair, alter or
improve the dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with minimum standards of
fitness established by this chapter within a specific period of time, not to
exceed 90 days. The order may also direct and require the owner to vacate and
close the dwelling or dwelling unit until the repairs, alternations and
improvements have been made.
      (3)   If the Officer determines that the dwelling is dilapidated, he or
she shall state in writing his or her findings of fact to support the
determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an
order directing and requiring the owner either to repair, alter or improve the
dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the minimum standards of fitness
established by this chapter, or else to vacate and remove or demolish the same
within a specified period of time not to exceed 90 days.
   (C)   Failure to comply with order.
      (1)   In persona remedy. If the owner of any deteriorated dwelling or
dwelling unit shall fail to comply with an order of the Officer to repair,
alter or improve or to vacate and close the same within the time specified
therein, the Officer shall submit to the Town Board of Aldermen at its next
regular meeting a resolution directing the town attorney to petition the
superior court for an order directing the owner to comply with the order of the
Officer, as authorized by G.S. § 160A-446(g).
      (2)   In rem remedy. After failure of an owner of a deteriorated or
dilapidated dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with an order of the Officer
within the time specified therein, if injunctive relief has not been sought or
has not been granted as provided in the preceding division (C)(1) above, the
Officer shall submit to the Town Board of Aldermen an ordinance ordering the
Officer to cause the dwelling or dwelling unit to be repaired, altered,
improved, vacated, closed, removed or demolished, as provided in the original
order of the Officer and pending removal or demolition, to placard the dwelling
as provided by G.S. § 160A-443, and §
150.16 herein.
   (D)   Appeals from orders of officer.
      (1)   An appeal from any decision or order of the Officer may be taken by
any person aggrieved thereby. Any appeal shall specify the grounds upon which
the appeal is based. Upon the filing of any notice of appeal, the Officer shall
forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers constituting the record upon
which the decision appealed from was made. When an appeal is from a decision of
the Officer refusing to allow the person aggrieved thereby to do any act, his
or her decision shall remain in force until modified or reversed. When an
appeal is from a decision of the Officer requiring the person aggrieved to do
the act, the appeal shall have the effect of suspending the requirement until
the hearing by the Board, unless the Officer certifies to the Board, after the
notice of appeal is filed with him or her, that by reason of the facts stated
in the certificate (a copy of which shall be furnished the appellant), a
suspension of his or her requirement shall not be suspended except for due
cause shown upon not less than one day’s written notice to the Officer, by the
Board, or by a court of record upon petition made pursuant to G.S. § 160A-446
(f), and division (E) below.
      (2)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of all
appeals, shall give due notice to all the parties and shall render its decision
within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent or
attorney. The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the
decision or order appealed from, and may make a decision or order as in its
opinion ought to be made in the matter, and to that end it shall have all the
powers of the Officer, but the concurring vote of four members of the Board
shall be necessary to reverse or modify any decision or order of the Officer.
The Board shall have power also in passing upon appeals, in any case where
there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the way of
carrying out the strict letter of the ordinance, to adapt the application of
the ordinance to the necessities of the case to the end that the spirit of the
ordinance shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial
justice done.
      (3)   Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review by
proceedings in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the
decision of the Board, but not otherwise.
   (E)   Petition to Superior Court by owner. Any person aggrieved by an order
issued by the Officer or a decision rendered by the Board shall have the right,
within 30 days after issuance of the order or rendering of the decision, to
petition the superior court for a temporary injunction restraining the Officer
pending a final disposition of the cause, as provided by G.S. § 160A-446(f).
(Ord. passed 3-9-1993)
§ 150.15  METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   Complaints or orders issued by the Officer shall be served upon persons
either personally or by registered or certified mail. If the whereabouts of the
person are unknown and the same cannot be ascertained by the Officer in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, the Officer shall make an affidavit to that
effect, and the serving of the complaint or order upon the person may be made
by publishing the same at least once no later than the time at which personal
service would be required under the provisions of this chapter in a newspaper
having general circulation in the town. Where service is made by publication, a
notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
premises affected by the complaint or order.
(Ord. passed 3-9-1993)
§ 150.16  IN REM ACTION BY OFFICER; PLACARDING.
   After failure of an owner of a dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with an
order of the Officer pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, and upon
adoption by the Town Board of Aldermen of an ordinance authorizing and
directing him or her to do so, as provided by G.S. § 160A-443(5) and §
150.14(C), the Officer shall proceed to cause the dwelling or dwelling unit to
be repaired, altered or improved to comply with the minimum standards of
fitness established by this chapter, or to be vacated and closed and removed or
demolished, as directed by the ordinance of the Town Board of Aldermen, and
shall cause to be posted on the main entrance of the dwelling or dwelling unit
a placard with the following words: “This building is unfit for human
habitation; the use or occupation of this building so posted shall constitute a
misdemeanor.” Each ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the Register of
Deeds in the county wherein the property is located, and shall be indexed in
the name of the property owner in the grantor index, provided by G.S. § 160A-
443(5).
(Ord. passed 3-9-1993)
§ 150.17  COSTS A LIEN ON PREMISES.
   (A)   As provided by G.S. § 160A-446(6), the cost of any repairs,
alterations or improvements or of vacating and closing, or removal or
demolition caused to be made or done by the Officer pursuant to §
150.16 shall be a lien against the real property upon which the cost was
incurred.
   (B)   The lien shall be filed, having priority, and be collected in the same
manner as the lien for special assessments established by G.S. § 160A-233.
(Ord. passed 3-9-1993)
§ 150.18  ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Neither this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed to impair
or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare nuisances and
to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to enforce this
chapter by criminal process as authorized by G.S. § 14-4, and the enforcement
of any remedy provided herein shall not prevent the enforcement of any other
remedy or remedies provided herein or in other ordinances or laws.
(Ord. passed 3-9-1993)
§ 150.19  ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT TO HEAR APPEALS.
   (A)   All appeals which may be taken from decisions or orders of the Officer
pursuant to §
150.14(D) shall be heard and determined by the Zoning Board of Adjustment. As
the appeals body, the Board shall have the power to fix the times and places of
its meetings, to adopt necessary rules and regulations for the proper discharge
of its duties. The Board shall perform the duties prescribed by §
150.14(D) and shall keep an accurate journal of all its proceedings.
   (B)   If the Zoning Board of Adjustment consists of more than five members,
the Chairperson shall designate five members to hear appeals under this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-9-1993)
§ 150.20  CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event any provision, standard or requirement of this chapter is found
to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of the
town, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirements for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the town shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 3-9-1993)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit to
fail, neglect or refuse to repair, alter or improve the same, or to vacate and
close and remove or demolish the same, upon order of the Officer duly made and
served as herein provided, within the time specified in the order. Each day
that any failure, neglect, refusal to comply with the order continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit,
with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to §
150.14, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the time prescribed
in the order for its repair, alteration or improvement or its vacation and
closing. Each day that the occupancy continues after the prescribed time shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor, as provided by G.S. § 14-4, and shall carry a penalty of a fine in
an amount as set by the Board from time to time for each separate occurrence.
   (D)   In addition to the penalty established by division (C) above, and the
remedies provided by other provisions of this chapter, this chapter may be
enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 3-9-1993)
CHAPTER 151:  FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
151.01   Adoption by reference
§ 151.01  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. passed 4-16-2001)
CHAPTER 152:  SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
152.01   Adoption by reference
§ 152.01  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The subdivision regulations of the town are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2006)
CHAPTER 153:  ZONING CODE
Section
   
153.01   Adoption by reference
§ 153.01  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Zoning Code of the town is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated
herein as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. passed 11-10-2009)
CHAPTER 154:  FENCES AND WALLS
Section
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Definitions/use
§ 154.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the chapter is to regulate the installation of fences and
walls within the jurisdiction of the Town of Grimesland.
(Ord.2019-2020:003, passed 2-11-2020)
§ 154.02  DEFINITIONS/USE.
   The regulations contained in this section shall apply to all fences on lot
(s) containing residential uses, unless specifically exempted. For the purposes
of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the following
meanings:
   (A)   (1)   Construction materials.
         (a)   Split rail (wooden) or post and rail (wooden or plastic) or wire
mesh may be used in conjunction with a split rail or post and rail fence type,
in rear and side yards only, provided the mesh is attached to the inside of the
fence, does not exceed the height of the highest horizontal members, and the
opening of the wire is at least two inches square. No other wire fences,
including barb wire or razor wire are permitted.
         (b)   Brown, green or black or vinyl coated chain link or uncoated
chain link with openings not less than two inches and not greater than three
inches.
         (c)   Picket (wooden or plastic) with vertical members being between
three and four inches in width and the spacing between vertical members or
pickets is equal to the width of the vertical
member.
         (d)   Wrought iron with open post and rail.
         (e)   Shadow box/board on board with vertical members or pickets
installed alternately from one side to the other and the spacing between
vertical members or pickets is equal to the width of the vertical member.
      (2)   The above listed material shall be the only materials used in the
construction of fences and walls.
   (B)   Setback requirements.
      (1)   The setback requirements of these regulations shall not prohibit
any necessary retaining wall or prohibit any wall or fence. However, within the
corporate limits of the town, no wall or fence shall exceed:
         (a)   Four feet in height within a front yard; or
         (b)   Six feet in height within a side or rear yard.
      (2)   Fences and walls may project into or may enclose any front yard;
however, no fence may be constructed on or in a public street or right-of-way.
In no case in a residential zone shall a fence or wall be extended closer to
the street right-of-way line than the front corner of the main building
situated on the lot or 30 feet from said street right-of-way, whichever is
greater.
   (C)   See Zoning Ordinance Article 6, Section 6.7.
   (D)   Enforcement. Shall coincide with Town of Grimesland Zoning Ordinances.
(Ord.2019-2020:003, passed 2-11-2020)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
TABLE I:  FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
–      11-13-1993  Grants transfer of franchise and the CATV system from
                     seller to buyer, consisting of Ord. passed 11-14-1989
–      8-11-2015   Renews 60-year franchise for Duke Progress Energy to
                     construct power lines and to provide electricity
                    
 
TABLE II:  INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
–   9-1-   Agreement between town and the county, regarding soil erosion and
      2000   sedimentation
–   9-5-   Agreement between town and the county, regarding the Subdivision
      2000   Ordinance and its enforcement
–   10-2-  Agreement between town and the county, regarding the Flood Damage
      2000   Prevention Ordinance
–   12-10- Agreement between the town and the county authorizing the county to
      2013   collect the town’s taxes
2013- 4-8-   Agreement between the town and the county extending the Pitt County
14:   2014   Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance for the Town of Grimesland
001
–   3-10-  Amendment to the agreement adopted December 10, 2013, authorizing the
      2015   county to collect the town’s taxes
2014- 5-12-  Adopting the county animal control ordinances so that they can be
15:   2015   enforced with the town’s jurisdiction
002
2014- 6-9-
15:   2015   Adopting the Neuse River Basin Regional Hazardous Mitigation Plan
002A
Res.
2017- 3-13-  Adopting a comprehensive animal services agreement within the town’s
18:   2018   jurisdiction
003
            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to 1991 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Reference Code Section
G.S. Reference   Code Section
1-593            10.05
Ch. 14        74.07
                 33.99;
                 52.999;
14-4             Ch. 72, Sch. I;
                 150.18;
                 150.99
14-4(a)          10.99
Ch. 20           74.07
20-4.01(12a)     74.03
20-161 et seq.   Ch. 71
20-219.11        93.09
44A-1            93.11
105-349          31.03
121              33.01
132              33.01
136-141 et seq.  93.14
136-143          93.14
160A-19          150.01
160A-87          31.21
160A-173         31.04
160A-175         10.99
160A-175(c)      71.99
160A-175(e)      71.99
160A-217         91.05
160A-233         150.17
160A-296         Ch. 73, Sch. I
160A-296 et seq. Ch. 71
160A-300         Ch. 73, Sch. I
160A-300.6       74.01
160A-303         93.02
160A-303.2       93.02
160A-311 et seq. 50.05
160A-363         34.01
160A-441         150.01
160A-443         150.14
160A-443(5)      150.16
160A-444         150.01
160A-446(f)      150.14
160A-446(g)      150.14
160A-446(6)      150.17
164-7            10.14
                 
 
REFERENCES TO 1991 CODE
1991 Code 2012 Code
1991 Code             2012 Code
Title I, § 2         10.05
Title I, § 8         10.19
Title II, § 1        30.01
Title II, § 2        30.02
Title II, § 3        30.03
Title II, § 4        30.04
Title II, § 5        30.05
Title II, § 6        30.06
Title II, § 7        30.07
Title II, § 8        30.08
Title II, § 9        30.09
Title II, § 10       30.10
Title II, § 11       30.11
Title II, § 12       30.12
Title II, § 13       30.13
Title II, § 14       30.14
Title III, § 1       31.01
Title III, § 2       31.02
Title III, § 3       31.03
Title III, § 4       31.04
Title III, § 5       31.05
Title III, § 6       31.06
Title III, § 7       31.07
Title III, § 8       31.08
Title III, § 9       31.09
Title IV, § 1        32.01
Title IV, § 2        32.02
Title IV, § 3        32.03
Title IV, § 4        32.04
Title VI, Art. A, § 191.01
Title VI, Art. A, § 291.02
Title VI, Art. A, § 391.03
Title VI, Art. A, § 491.04
Title VI, Art. A, § 591.05
Title VI, Art. A, § 691.06
Title VI, Art. A, § 791.07
Title VI, Art. B, § 191.08
Title VIII, § 1      32.05
Title VIII, § 2      110.01
Title VIII, § 5A     111.01
Title VIII, § 5B     111.02
Title VIII, § 5C     111.03
Title VIII, § 5D     111.04
Title VIII, § 5E     111.05
Title VIII, § 5F     111.06
Title VIII, § 5G     111.07
Title VIII, § 5H     111.08
Title VIII, § 5I     111.09
Title VIII, § 5J     111.10
Title VIII, § 5K     111.11
Title VIII, § 5L     111.12
Title VIII, § 5M     111.13
Title VIII, § 5N     111.14
Title VIII, § 5O     111.15
Title VIII, § 6      110.03
Title IX, § 4        70.01
Title IX, § 5        Ch. 72, Sch. I
Title IX, § 7        Ch. 73, Sch. I
Title IX, § 8A       93.01
Title IX, § 8B       93.02
Title IX, § 8C       93.03
Title IX, § 8D       93.04
Title IX, § 8E       93.05
Title IX, § 8F       93.06
Title IX, § 8G       93.07
Title IX, § 8H       93.08
Title IX, § 8I       93.09
Title IX, § 8J       93.10
Title IX, § 8K       93.11
Title IX, § 8L       93.12
Title IX, § 8M       93.13
Title IX, § 8N       93.14
Title IX, § 8O       93.15
Title X, § 2         92.01
Title X, § 4         90.01
Title X, § 5         90.02
Title X, § 6         112.01
Title X, § 7         113.01
Title X, § 8         130.01
Title X, § 10        92.02
                      
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
–          1-12-1993   94.02
–          8-10-2004   50.01
–          10-12-2004  50.02;
                         50.03
–          12-12-2006  50.05
–          11-10-2009  95.01
–          9-11-2012   52.130--
                         52.142
–          12-10-2013  TSO, Table II
2013-14:001  4-8-2014    TSO, Table II
–          3-10-2015   TSO, Table II
2014-15:002  5-12-2015   TSO, Table II
2014-15:002A 6-9-2015    TSO, Table II
2017-18:002  3-13-2018   50.01
2017-18:003  3-13-2018   TSO, Table II
2017-18:004  3-13-2018   50.05
2017-18:005  3-13-2018   50.07
2017-18:008  6-12-2018   92.03
–          8-14-2018   51.01 -
                         51.10
                        
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.      Date Passed Description
–           11-14-1989  TSO, Table I
–           8-17-1992   94.01
                          150.01—
–           3-9-1993    150.20;
                          150.99
–           11-13-1993  TSO, Table I
–           6-8-1999    34.01;
                          34.02
                          52.001—
                          52.013;
                          52.025—
                          52.030;
                          52.045;
                          52.048—
                          52.050;
–           5-9-2000    52.065—
                          52.072;
                          52.085;
                          52.086;
                          52.100—
                          52.103;
                          52.115—
                          52.117;
                          52.999
–           9-1-2000    TSO, Table II
–           9-5-2000    TSO, Table II
–           10-2-2000   TSO, Table II
–           4-16-2001   151.01
–           3-14-2006   50.04
–           8-8-2006    71.01;
                          71.99
–           10-1-2006   152.01
–           1-9-2007    52.065
                          51.01—
–           6-1-2008    51.07;
                          51.99
                          33.15—
–           2-10-2009   33.20;
                          33.99
–           11-10-2009  153.01
–           5-11-2010   31.20—
                          31.28
–           5-11-2010   33.01
–           7-13-2010   110.02
2011-004      12-13-2011  110.02
2011-002      1-1-2012    Ch. 73, Sch. I
–           7-10-2012   110.02
–           8-14-2012   Adopting Ordinance
2015-16:001   7-14-2015   110.01—
                          110.03
–           8-11-2015   TSO, Table I
2017-18:001   6-12-2018   92.03
2019-2020:002 2-11-2020   74.01—
                          74.07
2019-2020:003 2-11-2020   154.01,
                          154.02
2019-2020:004 2-11-2020   96.01—
                          96.03
                         
 
