HARNETT COUNTY, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-7 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through 11-18-2024; and
State Legislation current through 2024 Legislative Service #2
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
HARNETT COUNTY, NORTH CAROLINA
OFFICIALS
Board of County Commissioners
Chairman                 Gordon Springle
Vice-Chairman            Howard Penny, Jr.
                        Mark B. Johnson
                        Barbara McKoy
                        Joe Miller
County Manager           Paula K. Stewart
Assistant County Manager Coley Price
Assistant County Manager Brian Haney
Finance Officer          Kimberly A. Honeycutt
Clerk to the Board       Margaret Regina Wheeler
Sheriff                  Wayne Coats
Register of Deeds        Kimberly S. Hargrove
County Attorney          Dwight Snow
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE
ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE COUNTY OF HARNETT, NORTH CAROLINA,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE COUNTY OF HARNETT DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE
OF ORDINANCES
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the County of Harnett
are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and
substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety,
and general welfare of the county and for proper conduct of its affairs; and
WHEREAS, Section 153A-49 of the North Carolina General Statutes empowers and
authorizes the county to revise, amend, restate, codify, and compile existing
ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to
incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the Harnett County Board of Commissioners has authorized general
compilation, revision, and codification of the ordinances of the county of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in book form.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Harnett County Board of Commissioners:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the county as revised, amended,
restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall
constitute the “Code of Ordinances of Harnett County, North Carolina.”
Section 2.   The Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
   TABLE OF CONTENTS
      Chapter
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      10.   General Provisions
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      30.   Emergency Medical Services
      31.   911 Emergency Telephone System
      32.   Emergency Management
      33.   Personnel
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      50.   Garbage
      51.   Water and Sewer Generally
      52.   Sewer Use
      53.   Oil and Grease Control
      54.   Water Shortage and Conservation
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      [Reserved]
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      90.   Animal Control
      91.   Hazardous Waste and Materials
      92.   Noise
      93.   Mass Gatherings
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      110.   Sanitary Landfills and Disposal Facilities
      111.   County Airport
      112.   Safety Services and Businesses
      113.   Military Property Sales
      114.   Cable Television
      115.   Insulation and Energy Utilization Licensing
      116.   Massage and Massage Parlors
      117.   Amusements and Recreation
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      130.   Weapons
      131.   Explosives Detonation
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      150.   General Provisions
      151.   Regulatory Codes
      152.   Voluntary Agricultural District
      153.   Unified Development Ordinance
      154.   Communications Tower Ordinance
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      [Reserved]
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
      References to North Carolina General Statutes
      References to Resolutions
      References to Ordinances
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in this
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this Ordinance, except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in this Code; provided that such repeal shall not affect any offense
committed, penalty incurred, or any right established prior to the effective
date of this Ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of
ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements or plats, accepting dedications of land to
public use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public
places; nor shall such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or
special nature or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by this
Code.
Section 4.   This Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Board of Commissioners, and the Clerk to the Board of
Commissioners is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of the Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   This Code shall be in full force and effect upon adoption by the
Board of Commissioners and filed in the Office of the Clerk, and the Code shall
be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the ordinance and all
provisions, sections, penalties, and regulations therein contained and of the
date of passage and that the same is properly signed, attested, recorded, and
approved and that any public hearings and notices thereof as required by law
have been given.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Harnett County Board of Commissioners on June 4,
2018.
                     HARNETT COUNTY
                     BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
                     /s/ Gordon Springle
                     Gordon Springle, Chairman
ATTEST:
/s/ Margaret Regina Wheeler
Margaret Regina Wheeler, Clerk to the Board
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE COUNTY OF HARNETT, NORTH CAROLINA
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio (“American
Legal Publishing”) has completed the 2018 S-1 supplement to the Code of
Ordinances of the County of Harnett (“Code of Ordinances”), which supplement
contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing has recommended the revision or addition of
certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or make reference
to sections of the North Carolina code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Harnett County Board of Commissioners to
accept these updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the
State of North Carolina; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the county
and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the county that this ordinance take effect at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE HARNETT COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS:
Section 1.   That the 2018 S-1 supplement to the Code of Ordinances as
submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as
attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Harnett County Board of Commissioners and the
Clerk to the Harnett County Board of Commissioners is hereby authorized and
ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept
on file in the Office of the Clerk.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Harnett County Board of Commissioners on this 3rd day
of December 2018.
                     HARNETT COUNTY
                     BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
                     /s/ Gordon Springle
                     Gordon Springle, Chairman
ATTEST:
/s/ Margaret Regina Wheeler
Margaret Regina Wheeler, Clerk to the Board
AN ORDINANCE
ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE COUNTY OF
HARNETT, NORTH CAROLINA
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio ("American
Legal Publishing") has completed the 2019 S-2 supplement to the Code of
Ordinances of the County of Harnett ("Code of Ordinances"), which supplement
contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing has recommended the revision or addition of
certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or make reference
to sections of the North Carolina code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Harnett County Board of Commissioners to
accept these updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the
State of North Carolina; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the county
and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the county that this ordinance take effect at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE HARNETT COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS:
Section 1.   That the 2019 S-2 supplement to the Code of Ordinances as
submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as
attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Harnett County Board of Commissioners and the
Clerk to the Harnett County Board of Commissioners is hereby authorized and
ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept
on file in the Office of the Clerk.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Harnett County Board of Commissioners on December 16,
2019.
 
                     HARNETT COUNTY
                     BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
                     /s/ Howard Penny
                     Howard Penny, Chairman
 
ATTEST:
/s/ Margaret Regina Wheeler
Margaret Regina Wheeler, Clerk to the Board
ORDINANCE NO. 2022-01
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE COUNTY OF
HARNETT, NORTH CAROLINA
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio ("American
Legal Publishing") has completed the 2021 S-4 supplement to the Code of
Ordinances of the County of Harnett ("Code of Ordinances"), which supplement
contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Harnett County Board of Commissioners to
accept these updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the
State of North Carolina; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE HARNETT COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS:
Section 1.   That the 2021 S-4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances as
submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as
attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Harnett County Board of Commissioners and the
Clerk to the Harnett County Board of Commissioners is hereby authorized and
ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept
on file in the Office of the Clerk.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Harnett County Board of Commissioners on January 3,
2022.
                                    HARNETT COUNTY
                                    BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
                                    /s/ Lewis Weatherspoon
                                    Lewis Weatherspoon, Chairman
ATTEST:
/s/ Melissa D. Capps
Melissa D. Capps, Clerk to the Board
ORDINANCE NO. 2023-09
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE COUNTY OF
HARNETT, NORTH CAROLINA
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio (“American
Legal Publishing”) has completed the 2022 S-5 supplement to the Code of
Ordinances of the County of Harnett (“Code of Ordinances”), which supplement
contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances; and
WHEREAS, It is the intent of the Harnett County Board of Commissioners to
accept these updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the
State of North Carolina; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE HARNETT COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS:
Section 1.   That the 2022 S-5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances as
submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as
attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in its entirely.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Harnett County Board of Commissioners and the
Clerk to the Harnett County Board of Commissioners is hereby authorized and
ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept
on file in the Office of the Clerk.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Harnett County Board of Commissioners on this 17th
day of April, 2023.
                                    HARNETT COUNTY
                                    BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
                                    /s/ Matthew B. Nicol
                                    Matthew B. Nicol, Chairman
ATTEST:
/s/ Melissa D. Capps
Melissa D. Capps, Clerk to the Board
ORDINANCE NO. 2024-16
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
FOR THE COUNTY OF HARNETT, NORTH CAROLINA
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio (“American
Legal Publishing”) has completed the 2023 S-6 supplement to the Code of
Ordinances of the County of Harnett (“Code of Ordinances”), which supplement
contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances; and
WHEREAS, It is the intent of the Harnett County Board of Commissioners to
accept these updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the
State of North Carolina; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE HARNETT COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS:
Section 1.   That the 2023 S-6 supplement to the Code of Ordinances as
submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as
attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in its entirely.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Harnett County Board of Commissioners and the
Clerk to the Harnett County Board of Commissioners is hereby authorized and
ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept
on file in the Office of the Clerk.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Harnett County Board of Commissioners on this
       th day of May, 2024.
                                    HARNETT COUNTY
                                    BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
                                    /s/ William Morris
                                    William Morris, Chairman
ATTEST:
/s/ Melissa D. Capps
Melissa D. Capps, Clerk to the Board
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Certain ordinances and resolutions not affected by code
   
10.20   Supplementation of code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for Harnett County shall be
designated as the Code of Harnett County and may be so cited.
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing county to adopt and issue a code of ordinances, see G.S. § 153A-
49
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This county code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. Harnett County, North Carolina.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this county unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof and, as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this county shall be by the following
rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the context requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this county exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this county for the transaction of all county
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceeding, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the passage date of the original
ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed following the text of the
code section.
Example: (Ord. passed 5-13-1960; Ord. passed 1-1-1970; Ord. passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (G.S. §§ 139-1 et seq.) (Ord. passed 1-17-1980; Ord. passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This county shall make available to any person for inspection or copying all
public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 139-1 et seq.
§ 10.19 CERTAIN ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   (A)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following
ordinances or resolutions, which are not included herein:
      (1)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the county, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county
or any evidence of the county’s indebtedness;
      (2)   Any appropriation ordinance or resolution or ordinance or
resolution providing for the levy of taxes or for an annual budget, or
prescribing salaries for county officers and employees;
      (3)   Any ordinance or resolution granting any franchise, permit, or
other right;
      (4)   Any ordinance or resolution approving, authorizing, or otherwise
relating to any contract, agreement, lease, deed, or other instrument;
      (5)   Any ordinance or resolution authorizing or otherwise relating to
any public improvement project or work;
      (6)   Any ordinance or resolution zoning or rezoning specific property or
amending the zoning map; and/or
      (7)   Any temporary or special ordinance or resolution or ordinance or
resolution of limited interest or transitory nature.
   (B)   And all such ordinances and resolutions are hereby recognized as
continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length
herein.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to omit ordinances of the types enumerated above from the code,
see G.S. § 153A-49
§ 10.20 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by county personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Board of
Commissioners. A supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent
and general parts of ordinances passed by the Board of Commissioners during the
period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the code. The
pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the
code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or
partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have
been inserted, the code will be current through the date of the adoption of the
latest ordinance included in the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement [i.e.,
American Legal Publishing Corporation]) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes
in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it
is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the
codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivision;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles of sections
and other divisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes in
such catchlines, headings, and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other division numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter”, “this subchapter”, “this division”, and the like, as the case
may be, or to “sections       through      ” (inserting section numbers to
indicate the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the
ordinance incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but, in no case,
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to maintain code by replacement pages, see G.S. § 153A-49
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, if any person shall violate
any provision of this code of ordinances, that person shall be guilty of a
Class 3 misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. No fine shall exceed
$50 unless the ordinance expressly states that the maximum fine is greater than
$50.
   (B)   A person may not be found responsible or guilty of a violation
punishable pursuant to division (A) of this section if, when tried for that
violation, the person produces proof of compliance with the provisions of this
code of ordinances through any of the following:
      (1)   No new alleged violations of the provision within 12 months from
the date of the initial alleged violation.
      (2)   The person provides documented proof of a good-faith effort to seek
assistance to address any underlying factors related to unemployment,
homelessness, mental health, or substance abuse that might relate to the
person's ability to comply with the provisions of this code of ordinances.
(G.S. § 14-4(a), (c))
   (C)   Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Statutory reference:
   County enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 153A-123
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
      
31.   911 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM
      
32.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
33.   PERSONNEL
      
34.   COUNTY ATTORNEY
CHAPTER 30: EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
Section
   
30.01   Release of information to news media
   
30.02   Secretarial standards
   
30.03   Coverage of special events
   
30.04   Outside employment
   
30.05   Dress code
   
30.06   Disciplinary action
   
30.07   Visitors at EMS station
   
30.08   Part-time employees
   
30.09   Daily station clean-up
   
30.10   Weekly and monthly clean-up
   
30.11   Dual response with Fire Department
   
30.12   Stretcher handling
   
30.13   Billing procedures
   
30.14   Dispatch
   
30.15   Radio identification codes for County EMS
   
30.16   Operation of vehicles
   
30.17   Transportation of the deceased
   
30.18   Individuals authorized to ride on County EMS units
   
30.19   Transportation of cardiorespiratory arrest and severe trauma
   
30.20   Transportation of the sick and injured
   
30.21   Valid state driver’s license as a condition for continued employment
   
30.22   State Department of Correction inmates
   
30.23   Uniform standards for communications with hospital
   
30.24   Time at hospitals
§ 30.01 RELEASE OF INFORMATION TO NEWS MEDIA.
   (A)   Purpose. To ensure uniformity of practices pertaining to official
information released to the news media.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   All official news information concerning any patient or situation
must first be authorized by the Director or a supervisor.
      (2)   The Director/supervisors will comply with the same standards
followed by the area hospital emergency departments concerning patient
confidentiality.
      (3)   Questions pertaining to the administration and operation of county
government and the county’s EMS should be directed to the County Manager
through the Director.
(Res. passed 1-3-1989)
§ 30.02 SECRETARIAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose. To establish uniform standards within the section for the
performance of secretarial work so as to help maintain a high level of
proficiency and also ensure that every member of the secretarial staff is fully
aware of what is expected of him or her.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   All county EMS secretarial personnel are expected to strive to
achieve and maintain the standards set forth in the document entitled “Harnett
County Emergency Medical Services Standards for Secretarial Staff”.
      (2)   The office manager shall utilize these standards in the work
planning performance review process to evaluate the performance of each member
of the secretarial staff.
   (C)   Accuracy.
      (1)   A secretary should be especially accurate when typing material to
be sure it is prepared in the proper format. Special attention should be to
accuracy in typing, punctuating, capitalizing, spelling, hyphening, and
dividing words. Every sheet of typing should be carefully proofread.
      (2)   Be extremely careful in relating the correct phone number, spelling
of name, area code, and the like in recording telephone messages.
      (3)   It is very important to make sure that all material is filed in the
proper place. If there is any question about where material should be filed,
ask someone rather than take a chance of filing it improperly.
   (D)   Neatness. All material typed in this office must be extremely neat
without any noticeable erasures or smudge marks. It should always be spaced
correctly, using proper vertical and horizontal margins.
   (E)   Speed.
      (1)   An efficient secretary should be able to set priorities with his or
her work. Usually, top priority is placed on getting correspondence out first
unless some other priority temporarily takes precedence. In this case, the
secretary has to follow the instructions of his or her employer.
      (2)   If you have questions pertaining to your work, always refer to a
reference manual or check with someone; however, this should be done as
expeditiously as possible.
      (3)   Also, everyone should be very careful to deliver telephone messages
to the appropriate staff member as soon as possible after receiving the call.
   (F)   Alertness.
      (1)   Alertness is very important in being a proficient secretary. A
secretary should be aware of his or her employer’s schedule at all times,
should have a telephone number where he or she can be reached, and know
approximately what time he or she will return to the office.
      (2)   He or she should also be able to handle any type of work problem
with ease and be knowledgeable about office procedures.
      (3)   You also have to be alert in order to catch your errors, not only
typing errors but any type pertaining to your work.
      (4)   Try to anticipate mass mailings and prepare for them in advance.
When working on large projects, organize in your mind the things required and
prepare as many items in advance as possible. If you need assistance, consult
the office manager.
   (G)   Versatility.
      (1)   It is very important for a secretary to be able to perform other
types of work other than his or her daily routine.
      (2)   He or she should learn as much as possible about the other
secretaries work in the office, and be able to assist anyone when necessary. It
is also important to know how to operate and maintain any office equipment.
   (H)   Organization. It is very important to organize your work in order for
you to set priorities. You can usually accomplish a lot more if you have things
organized in your mind as to what should be done and not jump from one thing to
another. It is also important for you and your employer to be organized so that
he or she will be aware of what you are doing or should be doing.
   (I)   Dependability. It is necessary for your employer to be able to depend
on you to perform office functions without hesitation. Every effort should be
made not to abuse your sick leave. Always give the office manager as much
notice as possible when requesting annual or petty leave, and also sick leave
(if it is determined in advance that it is necessary for you to take sick
leave).
   (J)   Punctuality. It is important that staff members be prompt when
arriving for work in the mornings and after lunch. If you see that you are
going to be late arriving at the office, always call your supervisor and advise
what time you expect to be in.
   (K)   Confidentiality. A secretary must prove himself or herself to be the
type of person an employer can trust with any type of confidential matters. A
secretary and employer cannot have a good working relationship if the employer
feels he or she cannot relate any type of confidential information, whether it
be verbal or in writing, regarding functions of the office or pertaining to
personnel.
   (L)   Cooperation. Make it a daily habit to work in a cooperative spirit
rather than being a habitual faultfinder of other coworkers or of the agency.
If you have criticism regarding the operation of the agency or its personnel,
please bring it to the attention of the Director or office manager. Always
remember, the way you treat other people is usually the way they will treat
you.
   (M)   Initiative. Take the initiative to improve present working conditions,
office procedures, and the like, and volunteer for responsibility without being
asked.
   (N)   Dress code. Dress in a professional manner at all times.
(Res. passed 1-3-1989)
§ 30.03 COVERAGE OF SPECIAL EVENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. To establish guidelines concerning the coverage of special
events.
   (B)   Policy. The county’s Emergency Services normally does not provide
standby coverage at special events. If, for any reason, a volunteer rescue
squad is not available, the request should be presented to the Director and/or
Assistant Director.
(Res. passed 1-3-1989)
§ 30.04 OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. To emphasize § 5 of the county personnel ordinance concerning
outside employment.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   Permission to engage in gainful outside employment or self-
employment must be requested in writing and approved by the employee’s
department head and the County Manager.
      (2)   The telephone or EMS equipment will not be used for business
related interest while the employee is on duty with County EMS.
(Res. passed 1-3-1989)
§ 30.05 DRESS CODE.
   (A)   Purpose. To develop a standard dress code for all personnel working
for the county’s Emergency Medical Services.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   Personal appearance is important when contacting members of the
public under patient care situations and for safety factors dealing with unruly
patients. The following guidelines will be mandatory for County EMS personnel.
         (a)   Hair cuts. All personnel shall keep their hair neat and well
groomed at all times. No male personnel shall allow his hair to touch or come
over his shirt collar. No female personnel shall allow her hair below the
shoulder.
         (b)   Sideburns. Male personnel may have sideburns as long as they do
not grow below the lobe of the ear and are no more than two inches in width at
the bottom edge of the sideburn.
         (c)   Mustaches. Male personnel may grow mustaches so long as they do
not come below the corners of the mouth and do not extend over or cover the top
lip. All mustaches will be neat and well groomed and there will be no handlebar
mustaches.
         (d)   Beard and goatee. No personnel will be allowed to wear a beard
or goatee while on duty with this service.
      (2)   All new personnel will be issued three uniforms, consisting of
jacket, shirt, pants, belt, and shoes. There will be at least one uniform
issued each year thereafter.
      (3)   The following items will be provided as part of the uniform and
worn as described in the following.
         (a)   Collar brass and certified pins. Personnel will wear the collar
brass assigned to them by EMS. All collar brass will be worn in the center of
the shirt collar and one inch from the top of the shirt collar. Certified pins
are to be worn on the right shirt pocket. Only BTLS and ACLS pins are
permitted.
         (b)   Name plates. Personnel will wear the name plate issued to them
by EMS. Name plates will be worn over the right shirt pocket, just above the
pocket stitches.
         (c)   Badge. Personnel will wear the badge issued to them by EMS. This
badge will be worn over the left pocket in the center line of the shirt button.
         (d)   Patches. Personnel will wear two patches on their uniforms.
            1.   The state’s Emergency Medical Technician (EMT) patch will be
worn on the right shoulder and will be sewn or placed one inch below the
shoulder seam.
            2.   The county’s Emergency Medical Services (EMS) patch will be
worn on the left shoulder and will be sewn one inch below the shoulder seam.
            3.   Additional patches will be approved and provided by the
state’s Office of EMS.
         (e)   EMS caps. Caps may be worn whenever jumpsuits are worn.
      (4)   All uniforms will be clean and pressed.
      (5)   The following items will be provided by each employee and will meet
the described specifications.
         (a)   Jumpsuits. Personnel jumpsuits shall be light blue in color and
all must be the same. Jumpsuits shall be worn between 9:00 p.m. and 6:50 a.m.
         (b)   Socks. Personnel will furnish their own socks. Socks worn while
on duty will be dark blue or white.
(Res. passed 1-3-1989)
§ 30.06 DISCIPLINARY ACTION.
   (A)   Purpose. To ensure that proper disciplinary action is taken when an
employee fails to meet the county’s EMS standards, Department policy, and
Chapter 33 of this code.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   The shift supervisor has the authority to send off duty any
employee who has acted or is acting in a detrimental manner towards his or her
supervisors of County EMS.
      (2)   When a supervisor takes the above action, he or she will summit a
written report, signed by that employee, immediately through proper channels.
      (3)   A follow-up investigation will be conducted by the Assistant
Director and Director with further action being made in accordance with Chapter
33 of this code.
      (4)   To ensure that personnel are trained and certified as authorized by
budget position description, the following requirements will be adhered to for
positions except the Captain EMT I and EMS Clerk III.
         (a)   An employee of the County EMS unit will be trained and certified
as indicated by the budget position description.
         (b)   Failure to meet training and certification requirements will be
considered nonqualified based on job requirements and will be terminated as an
employee in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 33 of this code.
         (c)   An employee’s failure to maintain certification at the level
designated in the Budget position description level will be terminated as an
employee in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 33 of this code. The EMS
Captain, Chief of the EMS unit, may allow the employee six months to be re-
certified at the required budget position description level.
(Res. passed 1-3-1989; Res. passed 12-4-1989)
§ 30.07 VISITORS AT EMS STATION.
   (A)   Purpose. To establish guidelines in regards to visitors at EMS
stations.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   Prolonged visits by anyone at an EMS station are prohibited.
      (2)   Visitation after 10:00 p.m. is not allowed at any EMS station
without prior permission of the shift supervisor.
      (3)   No visitors are allowed in the sleeping quarters of the EMS
station.
(Res. passed 1-3-1989)
§ 30.08 PART-TIME EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Purpose. To establish uniform guidelines for part-time employees.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   County EMS will use part-time personnel when a full-time employee
is not available for shift duty.
      (2)   Part-time employees will not be employed unless the guidelines
established by Chapter 33 of this code are met.
      (3)   Part-time employees will not be employed until they have
satisfactorily completed an in-service training program.
      (4)   Each part-time employee will be furnished one uniform and it will
be worn in compliance with §
30.05.
      (5)   All part-time employees will serve as attendants while working with
County EMS, except the following: certain part-time employees may be designated
as drivers by the Director.
      (6)   Whenever possible, part-time employees will be assigned to Station
One; especially when they have to leave early.
(Res. passed 1-3-1989)
§ 30.09 DAILY STATION CLEAN-UP.
   (A)   Purpose. To establish guidelines to ensure that each EMS station is
properly cleaned each day.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   The EMS workday will begin promptly at 7:00 a.m. and end the next
morning at 7:00 a.m., or as soon thereafter as possible. Personnel may relieve
a member of the off-going shift between the hours of 6:30 a.m. through 7:00
a.m. if approved in advance.
      (2)   The first daily responsibility will be to check and supply each
unit. This responsibility should start promptly at 7:00 a.m. and the driver
should determine if the unit can be safely operated and the attendant should
check the equipment according to the standard checklist.
      (3)   Each of the following areas should be cleaned daily.
         (a)   Bathrooms.
            1.   Floors swept and mopped;
            2.   Commodes cleaned and scrubbed;
            3.   Laboratories cleaned and scrubbed;
            4.   Windows and mirrors cleaned;
            5.   Shelves and walls dusted;
            6.   Ample towel, tissue, and soap;
            7.   Shower cleaned; and
            8.   Trash cans emptied and new liner installed (at the beginning
of each shift).
         (b)   Sleeping area.
            1.   Floors cleaned;
            2.   Shelves dusted;
            3.   Windows cleaned;
            4.   Trash removed;
            5.   Mattresses turned on Mondays;
            6.   Night stands cleaned and dusted;and
            7.   Lockers cleaned and dusted.
         (c)   Supervisor’s office.
            1.   Vacuum carpet;
            2.   Empty trash; and
            3.   Dust and clean.
         (d)   Apparatus floor.
            1.   Clean water cooler each day; and
            2.   Clean and wash bay area each day.
         (e)   Kitchen.
            1.   Stove will be cleaned each day inside and outside; and
            2.   Clean refrigerator, anything left in the refrigerator over
three days will be thrown away. Frozen items will be kept.
      (4)   If a shift elects to cook at a station, it will be that shift’s
responsibility to clean the kitchen area as soon as possible after each meal.
      (5)   If a crew elects to eat out during their 24-hour shift, they must:
         (a)   Take the ambulance, but remain 10-8 during the meal; and
         (b)   Remain within their respective service area.
      (6)   Two ambulance units from station will not clear for meals at the
same time away from the station. If one unit is being dispatched or is on a
call, the second unit will remain at the station until the other unit is
cleared for service (10-8).
      (7)   Wake-up time at all EMS stations will be no later than 6:30 a.m.
(Res. passed 1-3-1989)
§ 30.10 WEEKLY AND MONTHLY CLEAN-UP.
   (A)   Purpose. To establish special cleaning assignments to ensure each EMS
station is properly cleaned.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   The following sequence will be used as cleaning assignments.
         (a)   Daily. Wash all vehicles.
         (b)   Weekly.
            1.   Monday. Strip and wax floors in ambulance and start generator
and run ten minutes;
            2.   Tuesday. Tighten screws and nuts and clean walls and cabinets
on ambulances;
            3.   Wednesday. Clean stockroom and fold linen; and
            4.   Thursday. Wrap and restock supplies.
         (c)   Monthly. Clean battery post and terminals on the first Monday of
each month.
         (d)   Tri-annually. The following schedule will be used for waxing
ambulances and window cleaning at all stations:
            1.   March of each year:
               a.   Shift A: outside windows;
               b.   Shift B: wax all units; and
               c.   Shift C: inside windows.
            2.   July of each year:
               a.   Shift A: inside windows;
               b.   Shift B: outside windows; and
               c.   Shift C: wax all units.
            3.   November of each year:
               a.   Shift A: wax all units;
               b.   Shift B: inside windows; and
               c.   Shift C: outside windows.
         (e)   Other cleaning assignments. Other cleaning assignments may be
given by the Director, Assistant Director, or shift supervisor as needed.
(Res. passed 1-3-1989)
§ 30.11 DUAL RESPONSE WITH FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. To establish uniform policies and procedures for an adequate
response by both the local Fire Department and County EMS to the scene of a
medical/rescue emergency.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   The communications center will automatically dispatch the assigned
EMS unit for all calls requesting medical/rescue assistance.
      (2)   If the request is of a life-threatening nature, a first responder
and an EMS unit both will be dispatched.
      (3)   Upon arrival at the scene, the first responder personnel will
render life support care to stabilize the patient.
      (4)   Upon arrival at the scene, County EMS personnel will render
treatment and transport with total patient care responsibility.
      (5)   Upon request, a member of the first responder will assist with
patient care and provide assistance to EMS en route to the hospital.
      (6)   Nearest crash truck will be dispatched to a 10-50 with a possible
pinned patient, construction site calls, or upon request of EMS for rescue
assistance.
      (7)   Rescue Squad will also be dispatched on medical emergency calls
when EMS units are not available. Rescue will treat the patient and transport
to an emergency facility.
      (8)   EMS should (if available) respond 10-40 to any structure fire that
sounds serious and standby near the scene, but not in the way, to assist with
possible patient care. However, this unit will remain 10-6 for possible
emergency calls when other units are dispatched.
      (9)   Either Fire, Rescue, or EMS will be available to respond to each
other’s calls when specifically requested. This is in addition to, and not in
lieu of, the attached response situations.
      (10)   Due to the jointly negotiated work plan included within this
policy, EMS will not bill fire department personnel for emergency services
while a joint effort is in effect.
(Res. passed 1-3-1989)
§ 30.12 STRETCHER HANDLING.
   (A)   Purpose. To establish standard operations procedures for the proper
handling of stretchers.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   All County EMS shift personnel are expected to strive to achieve
and maintain the procedures set forth in the document entitled “Harnett County
Emergency Medical Services Stretcher Handling”.
      (2)   The shift supervisor shall utilize these procedures in work
planning performance review process to evaluate the performance of each member
of his or her shift.
   (C)   Procedures for stretcher handling.
      (1)   At no time will a stretcher be raised or lowered from the side
positions when there is a patient on the stretcher. If the stretcher must be
raised or lowered while the patient is on the stretcher, one attendant will go
to the head position and the other attendant will go to the foot position. Once
both attendants are in place, the stretcher may then be raised or lowered.
      (2)   When loading the stretcher into the EMS unit, both attendants will
go to the side of the stretcher and grasp the bottom rail of the stretcher,
lifting at the same time. It may be necessary to elevate the front portion of
the stretcher as to clear the unit’s floor before entering.
      (3)   The unloading procedure is basically the same as loading. The one
difference being the driver will press the stretcher release button and both
people will grasp the stretcher from the end and roll it back to them. As the
stretcher rolls back, both attendants will move along beside the stretcher and
grasp the bottom rail to remove it from the unit to the hospital loading dock
or whatever area they are to unload at.
      (4)   When bringing a stretcher down or up a set of stairs or down or up
an incline of any type, always try to keep it level. In many cases, it is
better to put the shorter person on the end that does not have to be lifted.
This way, the taller person can get his or her arms under the end that has to
be raised and, in many cases, lift it above his or her head to keep it level.
      (5)   When moving a stretcher with a patient aboard, the stretcher will
always be moved feet first. There are two exceptions and this will be explained
later. The attendant at the foot of the stretcher will walk in front of the
stretcher and not to either side. The attendant at the head of the stretcher
will walk in the same position (in the center line of the stretcher) and not
out to either side. This allows him or her to keep an eye on the patient at all
times and does not take up as much space when coming down the hallway.
      (6)   There are two times you will go in head first.
         (a)   When you have reached the entrance to the emergency room, you
may go in head first. Remember, all the heads of the ER beds face away from the
entrance doors. So, if you go in head first you won’t have to turn your
stretcher and your patient around.
         (b)   When you start to enter an elevator, let one attendant stand
straddling the opening of the door. This will ensure that the doors don’t close
on your patient and stretcher. When you are ready to take the patient from the
elevator, it will be done the same way.
      (7)   At no time will any patient be left on an EMS stretcher unattended,
there will be one attendant with the stretcher and patient at all times. Always
remember, as long as you have a patient on your stretcher, you and County EMS
are liable for the health and well-being of that patient. Once the patient is
removed from your stretcher then, and only then, your liability is over, but if
the other emergency service needs help, you may do whatever you can to help.
      (8)   When you enter the ER with your patient and transfer the patient to
the ER bed, remove your stretcher from the ER so it will not cause congestion
in the ER area. If you are going to be tied up assisting the ER personnel, at
least one attendant should make the stretcher so it will be ready if your unit
receives another call.
   (D)   Movement and care of patient.
      (1)   When you enter the emergency room with your patient, place the head
of your stretcher at the foot of the ER bed if you are going to have to move
the patient yourself. If the patient is able to move without any further
medical danger, then pull your stretcher alongside of the ER bed.
      (2)   If the patient is going to be lifted to the ER bed, place the head
of the EMS stretcher at the foot of the ER stretcher. Both attendants move to
the side of the EMS stretcher and let the side rail down. Place one foot on the
bottom rail of the EMS stretcher to stabilize it while you are preparing for a
two-person lift. Once both attendants are ready, lift the patient to the ER
stretcher and remove your hands and raise both side rails.
      (3)   If your patient is able to move, pull your stretcher to the side of
the ER stretcher. Let your side rail down and place your hand on the side of
the lowered side rail. Both attendants take position at the head and foot of
the stretcher, placing their outside foot on the bottom rail of the EMS
stretcher. Next grasp the ER and EMS stretchers together with your hand. With
these two steps, neither stretcher will move when the patient slides from one
to the other. Now ask your patient to move to the next stretcher for you. After
this is done, put up both side rails.
(Res. passed 1-3-1989)
§ 30.13 BILLING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Purpose. To ensure that all customers are treated alike, the following
policy will establish uniform procedures concerning billing of patients.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   It will be the responsibility of the attendant to correctly
complete the trip ticket on every call requiring transport or transfer.
      (2)   A fee of $75 will be charged for all in-county transports with the
exception of situations that are covered by County Emergency Medical Services
policies.
      (3)   All out-of-county transfers will be charged $75 plus $1 per mile
from the county line to the receiving facility.
      (4)   In case a volunteer rescue squad is transporting a patient to a
hospital experiences vehicle difficulty requiring mutual aid, the trip ticket
will be left open as to charges.
      (5)   If mutual aid is requested from a paid provider, the normal charges
will be applied.
      (6)   If the attendant has any questions concerning charges, the price
section blank on the trip ticket should be left blank and referred to the shift
supervisor.
      (7)   Ten dollars will be charged for oxygen used.
      (8)   Twenty dollars will be charged for any ALS, $30 will be charged for
oxygen and ALS.
(Res. passed 1-3-1989)
§ 30.14 DISPATCH.
   (A)   Purpose. To establish procedures for dispatch.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   It is the responsibility of the ambulance staff to be in the
responding unit within two minutes. This time frame will start after Harnett
Central has completed dispatch information.
      (2)   Undue delay beyond the two-minute limit will require a written
explanation from the driver and attendant.
      (3)   All radio traffic en route to the scene will be handled by the
attendant.
      (4)   Upon arrival at the scene, all EMS units will advise Central they
are 10-23. This will be done in the following manner: Central, EMS 36 - 10-23
at given location.
      (5)   First EMS unit on scene will advise Central additional responding
units are not needed or 10-40 or 10-39.
      (6)   If additional backup is needed, advise Central in the following
manner: Harnett Central - EMS (36) 10-40 or 10-39 traffic - advise
Communications Center if medical or trauma code exists, advise type of backup
needed:
         (a)   Additional EMS unit;
         (b)   Crash truck;
         (c)   Fire Department; and/or
         (d)   Police or H.P.
      (7)   After securing patient in unit, the driver will advise departure in
the following manner: Central EMS 36 - 10-17 to Good Hope or Betsy Johnson 10-
40 or 10-39 with number of patients on board. If using 10-39 traffic, advise
Central of route unit will be taking.
      (8)   Upon arrival at the hospital, the unit will advise Central as: EMS
36 - 10-6 at receiving facility.
      (9)   Upon completion of assignment, the following communications will be
transmitted:
         (a)   After marking 10-6 at receiving facility, unit will be ready to
mark 10-8.
         (b)   When leaving hospital, unit will advise Central: EMS 36 - 10-8 -
10-19 to location - returning to.
         (c)   Unit will mark 10-8 for return of personnel unless extenuating
circumstances exist (such as incubator on board). Personnel will be advised of
this before transporting to receiving facility. Unit will always mark 10-8 from
calls, 10-7 to return equipment.
         (d)   If unit does not transport, unit will advise Central only:
Central, EMS 36 - EMS 36 10-22 - 10-8 - 10-19.
      (10)   Unit will advise Central of its location and/or destination as
applicable:
         (a)   Trips for fuel, supplies, vehicle maintenance, or special
assignments; and
         (b)   Upon completion of assignment.
      (11)   It will be the responsibility of the driver to document any
problems in the above policy that prevent adequate communication of 10-39 and/
or 10-40 communications.
      (12)   If an EMS unit calls Central and does not receive a reply, the
unit should call again in the following manner: Central, EMS 36 - wait for
acknowledgment - EMS 36, 10-17 to location 10-40 with 1.
(Res. passed 1-3-1989)
§ 30.15 RADIO IDENTIFICATION CODES FOR COUNTY EMS.
   (A)   Purpose. To establish and record a uniform policy and procedure for
identifications when operating department owned radio equipment.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   County Emergency Medical Services staff shall identify their two-
way radio communications originating from department-owned, licensed, and digit
codes listed below. These identifiers shall be used when communicating between
department-owed equipment or when communicating to other facilities or systems,
such as Emergency Operating Centers, hospitals, or other licensed two-way radio
systems.
      (2)   The two-digit code identifier shell be preceded by the word
“HARNETT” to help prevent confusion between similarly numbered stations
throughout the area of operation.
      (3)   When initiating communication by radio, the “called” party
identifications shall be given first, followed by the county identifier.
      (4)   No person shall use for identification the code assigned to another
person or position.
      (5)   The county one- or two-digit identifiers are assigned by vehicle as
follows:
         (a)   Harnett EMS 35 Vehicle;
         (b)   Harnett EMS 36 Vehicle;
         (c)   Harnett EMS 37 Vehicle;
         (d)   Harnett EMS 38 Vehicle; and
         (e)   Harnett EMS 39 Vehicle.
      (6)   The County Emergency Medical Services two-digit identifiers are
assigned as follows:
 
Identifier Assigned To
EMS 30     Director
EMS 31     Asst. Director
EMS 32     Team 1 - Shift Supervisor
EMS 33     Team 2 - Shift Supervisor
EMS 34     Team 3 - Shift Supervisor
 
(Res. passed 1-3-1989)
§ 30.16 OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Purpose. To establish a standard policy for the operation of County
EMS vehicles.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   The maximum speed of every EMS vehicle is not to exceed ten mph
over the posted speed limit.
      (2)   All EMS vehicles shall come to a complete stop at all intersections
where stop signs are displayed in the EMS vehicle’s direction of travel or
where the EMS vehicle must proceed against a red light. EMS vehicles shall
proceed only when it has been determined that traffic conditions will permit
such action. At other intersections or hazards, all EMS vehicles shall be fully
prepared to stop by pausing sufficiently to assure that movement can be made
safely.
      (3)   When any EMS unit is being backed, there must be someone watching
for clearance.
      (4)   It will be the driver’s responsibility to ensure that the doors are
fully open before leaving or entering the station.
      (5)   A written report must be submitted to the shift supervisor
concerning any damage that occurs to an EMS unit. This report may be completed
by either the driver or attendant.
      (6)   Seat belts will be worn at all times whenever EMS units are in
operation.
(Res. passed 1-3-1989)
§ 30.17 TRANSPORTATION OF THE DECEASED.
   (A)   Purpose. It is not the responsibility of County EMS to transport
deceased persons. This policy will establish guidelines to be used when
confronted with deceased person.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   Upon arriving on the scene of any fatality or deceased person, EMS
personnel shall contact Central and request assistance due to a Code 3.
      (2)   EMS personnel shall refrain from answering questions or making
comments concerning the fatality or deceased. All questions should be referred
to the investigating officer.
      (3)   Upon the arrival of the investigating officer, EMS personnel will
answer any questions by the officer and immediately leave the scene.
      (4)   If requested by the investigating officer and/or the medical
examiner to transport the body, EMS personnel will request permission from the
shift supervisor prior to moving the deceased.
      (5)   The shift supervisor will only authorize transportation of the
deceased in extreme circumstances, and at no time will authorize transportation
of a deceased person having a contagious disease or decomposed body.
(Res. passed 1-3-1989)
§ 30.18 INDIVIDUALS AUTHORIZED TO RIDE ON COUNTY EMS UNITS.
   (A)   Purpose. To establish uniform policy concerning individuals authorized
to ride on County EMS units.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   The following individuals are authorized to ride on an EMS unit:
         (a)   County EMS employees;
         (b)   Uniformed law enforcement officers required for assistance in
safely transporting a patient;
         (c)   A member of the Fire Department or First Responder who has been
requested by EMS personnel to assist with patient care;
         (d)   An EMT who is specially requested to assist on a particular call
by an EMS employee at the scene of an emergency for the purpose of rendering
necessary medical assistance on a specific emergency patient transport;
         (e)   A person(s) who has specifically been assigned to accompany the
physician’s patient to a care facility; and/or
         (f)   A member of the patients immediate family who may accompany the
patient to a care facility by riding in the right front seat of the ambulance,
provided that approval is obtained from the senior full-time County EMS
employee on the scene.
      (2)   County Employees (County Manager, Assistant County Manager, Human
Services Administrator, and the like) with the approval of the Director and/or
Assistant Director.
      (3)   Individuals authorized by the Assistant Director and/or Director.
These persons must sign a waiver of liability before riding on the vehicle.
(Res. passed 1-3-1989)
§ 30.19 TRANSPORTATION OF CARDIORESPIRATORY ARREST AND SEVERE TRAUMA.
   (A)   Purpose. To establish a uniform policy for the transportation of
individuals in cardiorespiratory arrest.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   If an individual is found to be in cardiorespiratory arrest, it
shall be the policy of County EMS to transport this individual to the nearest
hospital department with full-time emergency department physicians on staff.
      (2)   If a duly qualified state physician is physically present at the
scene with a patient in cardiorespiratory arrest, and if that physician shall
assume the responsibility for the care and treatment of such individual, and if
that physician shall ride to a medical facility in the EMS vehicle, then EMS
will transport such individual to any medical facility within the county’s EMS
service area that such physician shall request.
      (3)   If transportation of an individual in cardiorespiratory arrest is
to a medical facility other than the nearest hospital, then EMS personnel shall
notify the nearest hospital that they are transporting to another medical
facility at the request of an onboard state licensed medical doctor who has
assumed responsibility for the care and treatment of the patient.
      (4)   This policy shall also cover severe trauma.
(Res. passed 1-3-1989)
§ 30.20 TRANSPORTATION OF THE SICK AND INJURED.
   (A)   Purpose. To establish a uniform policy for the transportation of the
sick and injured.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   All sick or injured persons requesting transport shall be
transported to a hospital without delay.
      (2)   Persons refusing or not requesting transport to a hospital shall
sign the trip ticket in the space provided for refusal or an authorized person
shall sign the refusal for them.
      (3)   County EMS will not be responsible for transporting any patient
(county resident or non-county resident) to any facility that exceeds 50 miles
outside the county.
      (4)   County EMS will be responsible for the transfer or transport of any
patient (county resident or non-county resident) that is being treated by
either of the county’s hospitals. This transfer must be to a receiving
facility, not a residence. The transfer or transport may not exceed division
(B)(3) above. Also, this policy is based solely on the premise that an
ambulance is available for this transfer. If an ambulance is not available then
the transferring facility must be responsible for securing another means of
transport. County EMS will cooperate with the facility in attempting to locate
the alternative transport unit.
      (5)   County EMS will transport a county resident to his or her residence
from a hospital outside of the county providing that the patient’s needs are
such that he or she may not be transported by other means and this transport
does not exceed division (B)(3) above.
      (6)   A county resident receiving medical care in a local medical
facility may be transported to his or her residence anywhere within the
boundaries of the county provided that he or she may not be transported by any
other means. A non-county resident receiving medical care in a local medical
facility may be transported to his or her residence provided that the mileage
outside of the county does not exceed 15 miles and he or she may not be
transported by any other means.
      (7)   County EMS will not be responsible for the transfer of any patient
(county resident or non-county resident) that is receiving medical care in a
medical facility outside of the county to another medical facility or nursing
home outside of the county. The only exceptions to this will be a transport of
a county resident to Southeastern Rehabilitation Center in Fayetteville, North
Carolina.
(Res. passed 1-3-1989)
§ 30.21 VALID STATE DRIVER’S LICENSE AS A CONDITION FOR CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. To establish a uniform policy on having and/or maintaining a
valid state driver’s license.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   All County EMS employees directly involved with patient care who
are expected to drive an EMS vehicle must have and maintain a valid state
driver’s license.
      (2)   Any County EMS employee covered under this policy who has his or
her driver’s license suspended by the court system and/or the Department of
Motor Vehicles, for a period of 30 days or less shall be placed on
administrative leave with pay if the employee has sufficient leave to cover
such a period. If the employee does not have sufficient leave to cover such a
period, the leave shall be without pay.
      (3)   Any County EMS employee covered under this policy who has his or
her driver’s license suspended or revoked by the court system and/or the
Department of Motor Vehicles, for a period in excess of 30 days, shall have his
or her employment terminated effective upon such suspension.
      (4)   Any County EMS employee covered under this policy who is convicted
by the court system of driving while impaired, shall have his or her employment
terminated upon such conviction.
      (5)   Any County EMS employee covered under this policy who is convicted
by the court system of any other alcohol related traffic offense shall be
subject to appropriate disciplinary action.
      (6)   Any County EMS employee covered under this policy who accumulates
such a driving record from other causes so as to become a liability to the
county shall be subject to dismissal. For purposes of this policy, a liability
to the county shall be defined as a driver with such a driving record so as not
to be acceptable for the same insurance rates as other drivers with acceptable
driving records. For the purpose of enforcement of this provision,
determination of what is an acceptable or unacceptable driving record shall be
in the sole direction of the county.
(Res. passed 1-3-1989)
§ 30.22 STATE DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTION INMATES.
   (A)   Purpose. To establish a uniform transportation policy for sick or
injured inmates to medical facilities.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   The position of the Division of Prisons is that medical decisions
during emergencies will be made by County Emergency Medical personnel in
attendance.
      (2)   In a life-threatening situation involving a Department of
Correction inmate, County Emergency Medial personnel shall transport to the
closest medical facility.
      (3)   In non-life-threatening situations involving a Department of
Correction inmate, transportation to Central Prison Hospital is desirable;
however, County Emergency Medical personnel will transport to any local medical
facility at the request of the Department of Correction.
      (4)   Any inmate transported from the County Jail will not be charged
(place on charge ticket County Jail).
(Res. passed 1-3-1989)
§ 30.23 UNIFORM STANDARDS FOR COMMUNICATIONS WITH HOSPITAL.
   (A)   Purpose. To establish uniform standards for proper communications with
hospital staff.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   All hospital communications will be transmitted on frequency
155.340 - Channel 3.
      (2)   The EMT responsible for the patient(s) will transmit the situation
to the receiving hospital in the following manner: Receiving facility - EMS
(36) on 340 - wait for acknowledgment - EMS (36) 10-17 to your facility with:
         (a)   Number of patients;
         (b)   If trauma case-advise type;
         (c)   Age and sex;
         (d)   Major complaints and personal observations about patient;
         (e)   Vital signs;
         (f)   Treatment tendered;
         (g)   Pertinent medical history;
         (h)   Advise patient’s name and doctor, only if requested by emergency
room;
         (I)   If more than one patient is being transported, after
transmitting first patient information make sure hospital has a 10-2 copy and
go ahead with further communications;
         (j)   Advise emergency room if patient is ambulatory;
         (k)   Units estimated E.T.A.; and
         (l)   Acknowledge hospital on room orders and clear unit.
      (3)   If Channel 340 is 10-7 or unable to contact hospital, switch over
to 760. If still unable to contact hospital, 10-5 only pertinent information to
Central.
      (4)   Upon completion of patient information to the receiving emergency
facility, the unit will switch back to Central (frequency 155.760 Channel).
(Res. passed 1-3-1989)
§ 30.24 TIME AT HOSPITALS.
   (A)   Purpose. To ensure that an ambulance unit is available to respond to
every emergency call.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   Patient care is the number one responsibility; however, as soon as
the patient is properly transferred to the emergency department personnel, the
unit will return to the assigned station.
      (2)   EMS units are expected to spend no more than 15 minutes at the
hospital when transporting to an emergency department.
      (3)   If additional time is needed for patient care or observation,
permission must be obtained from the shift supervisor to exceed the above-
required 15-minute time limit.
(Res. passed 1-3-1989)
CHAPTER 31: 911 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Enactment
   
31.02   Authority
   
31.03   Jurisdiction
   
31.04   Telephone Records
   
31.05   Exclusions and inclusions
   
31.06   Limitation of liability
   
31.07   Definitions
   
31.08   Effective date
Charges and Funding
   
31.20   Charges
   
31.21   Payment and collection of charges
   
31.22   Administration
   
31.23   Emergency Telephone System Fund
   
31.24   Payments from Fund
 
   
31.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 ENACTMENT.
   This chapter establishes and provides for the financing of the 911 Emergency
Telephone Service for the county, hereinafter referred to as “this chapter” or
“chapter”.
(Ord. passed 6-21-1993)
§ 31.02 AUTHORITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are adopted under authority granted by G.S.
Chapter 62A, entitled Public Safety Telephone Act.
(Ord. passed 6-21-1993)
§ 31.03 JURISDICTION.
   The jurisdiction of this chapter includes the entire geographic area of the
county. The municipalities of Angier, Coats, Dunn and Lillington are included
in this chapter as evidenced by a resolution from each town in support of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-21-1993; Ord. passed 6-4-2007)
§ 31.04 TELEPHONE RECORDS.
   (A)   The telephone service supplier shall provide subscriber telephone
numbers, names, and service addresses to 911 systems when required by the
county. Although customer numbers, names, and service addresses shall be
available to 911 systems, such information shall remain the property of the
disclosing service supplier. The total cost of the system shall include
expenses paid to service suppliers to provide and maintain 911 information.
This information shall be used only in providing emergency response services to
911 calls. The county may not release a telephone number required to be
provided under this section to any person for purposes other than including the
number in the emergency telephone system database or providing the number to
permit a response to police, fire, medical, or other emergency situations.
   (B)   To the extent necessary to provide 911 service, private listing
customers of a service supplier in the 911 service area waive the privacy
afforded by unlisted and non-published numbers when the 911 service is
established.
(Ord. passed 6-21-1993)
§ 31.05 EXCLUSIONS AND INCLUSIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners does hereby amend this chapter to exclude
the Fort Bragg Development Linden Oaks from the jurisdiction in which the
county provides dispatch services.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners does hereby amend this chapter to include
the Town of Erwin in the jurisdiction in which the county provides dispatch
services.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2001; Ord. passed 6-4-2007)
§ 31.06 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   The service supplier, including any telephone company and its employees,
directors, officers, and agents, is not liable for any damages in a civil
action for injuries, death, or loss to persons or property incurred by any
person as a result of any act or omission of a service supplier or of any of
its employees, directors, officers, or agents, except for willful or wanton
misconduct, in connection with developing, adoption, implementing, maintaining,
or operating any 911 system.
(Ord. passed 6-21-1993)
§ 31.07 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   911 CHARGE. A contribution to the local government for the 911 service
startup equipment costs, subscriber notification costs, addressing costs,
billing cost, and nonrecurring and recurring installation, maintenance,
service, and network charges of a service supplier providing 911 service
pursuant to this chapter.
   911 SYSTEM or 911 SERVICE. An emergency telephone system that provides the
user of the public telephone system the ability to reach a public safety
answering point by dialing the digits 911. The term 911 SYSTEM or 911 SERVICE
also includes ENHANCED 911 SERVICE, which means an emergency telephone system
that provides the user of the public telephone system with 911 service and, in
addition, directs 911 calls to appropriate public safety answering points by
selective routing based on the geographical location from which the call
originated and provides the capability for automatic number identification and
automatic location identification features.
   ADDRESSING. The assigning of a numerical address and street name (the street
name may be numerical) to each location within a local government’s
geographical area necessary to provide public safety service as determined by
the local government. This address replaces any route and box number currently
in place in the 911 database and facilitates quicker response by public safety
agencies.
   EXCHANGE ACCESS FACILITY. The access from a particular telephone
subscriber’s premises to the telephone system of a service supplier. EXCHANGE
ACCESS FACILITIES include service supplier provided access lines, PBX trunks,
and centrex network access registers, all as defined by tariffs of telephone
companies as approved by the state’s Utilities Commission. EXCHANGE ACCESS
FACILITIES do not include service supplier owned and operated telephone pay
station lines, or wide area telecommunications service (WATS), foreign exchange
(FX), or incoming only lines.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT. Any city, county, or political subdivision of the state
and its agencies.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. The state and any city, county, municipal corporation,
charted organization, public district, or public authority located in whole or
in part within the state which provides or has authority to provide fire
fighting, law enforcement, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. A functional division of a public agency which
provides fire fighting, law enforcement, medical, suicide prevention, civil
defense, poison control, or other emergency services.
   SERVICE SUPPLIER. A person or entity who provides exchange telephone service
to a telephone subscriber.
   TELEPHONE SUBSCRIBER or SUBSCRIBER. A person or entity to whom exchange
telephone service, either residential or commercial, is provided and in return
for which the person or entity is billed on a monthly basis. When the same
person, business, or organization has several telephone access lines, each
exchange access facility shall constitute a separate subscription.
(Ord. passed 6-21-1993)
§ 31.08 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective and be in full force from and after
November 1, 1993.
(Ord. passed 6-21-1993)
CHARGES AND FUNDING
§ 31.20 CHARGES.
   A 911 service fee will be added to the regular monthly bill for each
exchange access facility subscribed to by telephone subscribers whose exchange
access lines are in the area served or will be served by the 911 service.
Beginning July 1, 2002, the service provider shall bill subscribers a 911
service charge of $1.50 monthly.
(Ord. passed 6-21-1993; Ord. passed 3-18-2002)
§ 31.21 PAYMENT AND COLLECTION OF CHARGES.
   (A)   The service supplier shall, on behalf of the county, collect the
charges from those subscribers to whom it provides exchange telephone service
in the area served by the 911 service. As part of its normal monthly billing
process, the service supplier shall collect the charges for each month or part
of the month an exchange access facility is in service. The service supplier
will list the charge as a separate entry on each bill. If a service supplier
receives a partial payment for a monthly bill from a subscriber, the service
supplier shall apply the payment against the amount the subscriber owes the
service supplier first.
   (B)   A service supplier has no obligation to take any legal action to
enforce the collection of the 911 charges for which any subscriber is billed.
However, a collection action may be initiated by the county and reasonable
costs and attorneys’ fees associated with that collection action may be awarded
to the county of as allowed by G.S. § 62A-5.
   (C)   The county shall remain ultimately responsible to the service supplier
for all 911 installation, service, equipment, operation, and maintenance
charges owed to the service supplier. Upon request by the county, the service
supplier shall provide a list of amounts uncollected along with the names and
addresses of telephone subscribers who have not paid the 911 charge.
   (D)   Any taxes due on 911 service provided by the service supplier will be
billed to the county.
(Ord. passed 6-21-1993)
§ 31.22 ADMINISTRATION.
   The service supplier is entitled to a 1% administrative fee as compensation
for collecting the charges. The service supplier shall remit the rest of the
charges it collects during a month to the county within ten days after the last
day of each month.
(Ord. passed 6-21-1993)
§ 31.23 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM FUND.
   The county shall deposit the charges in a separate, restricted fund. The
fund shall be known as the Emergency Telephone System Fund. The Fiscal Officer
may invest money in the Fund in the same manner that other money of the local
government may be invested. The Fiscal Officer shall deposit any income earned
from such an investment in the Emergency Telephone System Fund.
(Ord. passed 6-21-1993)
§ 31.24 PAYMENTS FROM FUND.
   (A)   Money from the Emergency Telephone System Fund shall be used only to
pay for:
      (1)   The lease, purchase, or maintenance of emergency telephone
equipment, including necessary computer hardware, software and database
provisioning, addressing, and nonrecurring costs of establishing a 911 system;
and
      (2)   The rates associated with the service supplier’s 911 service and
other service supplier recurring charges.
   (B)   The following expenses are not eligible for payment from the Fund:
      (1)   The lease or purchase of real estate;
      (2)   Cosmetic remodeling of emergency dispatch centers;
      (3)   Hiring, training, and compensating dispatchers; and
      (4)    The purchase of mobile communications vehicles, ambulances, fire
engines, or other emergency vehicles.
   (C)   The county may contract with a service supplier for any term
negotiated by the service supplier and may make payments from the Emergency
Telephone System Fund to provide any payments required by the contract.
(Ord. passed 6-21-1993)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who intentionally calls the 911 number for other than purposes of
obtaining public safety assistance commits a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 6-21-1993)
CHAPTER 32: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
32.01   Short title
   
32.02   Intent and purpose
   
32.03   Definitions
   
32.04   Organization and appointments
   
32.05   Day-to-day duties and responsibilities of the Coordinator
   
32.06   Emergency management plans
   
32.07   No municipal or private liability
   
32.08   Conflicting ordinances, orders, rules, and regulations suspended
   
32.09   Effective date
 
   32.99    Penalty
§ 32.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the
“Emergency Management Ordinance for the County of Harnett” or “this chapter” or
“chapter”.
(Ord. passed 12-16-2013)
§ 32.02 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to establish an office
that will ensure the complete and efficient utilization of all county resources
to combat disaster resulting from enemy actions or other disasters as defined
herein.
   (B)   The county’s Office of Emergency Management will be the coordination
agency for all activity in connection with emergency management. It will be the
instrument through which the Board of Commissioners may exercise the authority
and discharge the responsibilities vested in it during disaster emergencies.
   (C)   This chapter will not relieve any city or county department of the
moral responsibilities or authority given to it in the city or county charter
or by local ordinances, nor will it adversely affect the work of any volunteer
agency organized for relief in disaster emergencies.
(Ord. passed 12-16-2013)
§ 32.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ATTACK. Direct or indirect assault against the county, its government, its
environs, or of the nation, by the forces of a hostile nation or the agents
thereof, including assault by bombing, conventional or nuclear, chemical or
biological warfare, terrorism, or sabotage.
   COORDINATOR. The Coordinator of the county’s Emergency Agency, appointed as
prescribed in this chapter.
   DISASTER. Includes, but is not limited to, actual or threatened enemy
attack, sabotage, extraordinary fire, flood, storm epidemic, accident, chemical
spill, air, or other discharge into ground or water, or other impending or
actual calamity endangering or threatening to endanger health, life or property
of constituted government.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The basic government functions of maintaining the
public peace, health, and safety during an emergency. This term shall include
plans and preparations for protection and relief, recovery, and rehabilitation
from effects of an attack by the forces of an enemy nation or the agents
thereof, or a disaster as defined herein. It shall not, however, include any
activity that is the primary responsibility of the military forces of the
United States.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The employees, equipment, and facilities of all
city and county departments, boards, councils, institutions, and commissioners;
and, in addition, it shall include all volunteer personnel, equipment, and
facilities contributed by, or obtained from, volunteer persons or agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEER. Any person duly registered, identified, and
appointed by the Coordinator of the county’s Emergency Agency, appointed as
prescribed in this chapter.
   REGULATIONS. Includes plans, programs, and other emergency procedures deemed
essential to emergency management.
   VOLUNTEER. Contributing a service, equipment, or facilities to the Emergency
Management Agency without remuneration.
(Ord. passed 12-16-2013)
§ 32.04 ORGANIZATION AND APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   The organization shall consist of the following:
      (1)   An agency of emergency management within the executive department
of the county government under the direction of the Board of Commissioners. The
agency head of the Emergency Management Agency shall be known as the
Coordinator and such assistants and other employees as are deemed necessary for
the proper functioning of the agency will be appointee;
      (2)   The employees and resources of all county departments, boards,
institutions, and councils shall participate in the emergency management
activities. Duties assigned to city or county departments shall be the same as
or similar to the normal duties of the department, where possible; and
      (3)   Volunteer personnel and agencies offering service to, and accepted
by, the city and county.
   (B)   The County Manager, with the concurrence of the Board of
Commissioners, shall appoint a Coordinator of the county’s Emergency Management
Agency who shall be a person well versed and trained in planning operations
involving the activities of many different agencies which will operate to
protect the public health, safety, and welfare in the event of danger from
enemy action or disaster as defined in this chapter.
   (C)   The Coordinator shall designate and appoint Deputy Coordinators to
assume the emergency duties of the Coordinator in the event of his or her
absence or inability to act.
(Ord. passed 12-16-2013)
§ 32.05 DAY-TO-DAY DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COORDINATOR.
   (A)   The Coordinator shall be responsible to the Board of Commissioners in
regard to all phases of emergency management activity.
   (B)   The Coordinator shall be responsible for the planning, coordination,
and operation of the emergency management activities in the county.
   (C)   The Coordinator shall maintain liaison with the state and federal
authorities and the authorities of nearby political subdivisions so as to
ensure the most effective operation of the emergency management plans.
   (D)   The Coordinator’s duties shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Coordinating the recruitment of volunteer personnel and agencies to
augment the personnel and facilities of the county for emergency management
purposes;
      (2)   Development and coordination of plans for the immediate use of all
facilities, equipment, manpower, and other resources of the county for the
purpose of minimizing or preventing damage to persons and property; and
protection and restoring to usefulness governmental services and public
utilities necessary for the public health, safety, and welfare;
      (3)   Negotiating and concluding agreements with owners or persons in
control of building or other property for the use of such building or other
property for the emergency management purposes and designation suitable
buildings as public shelters;
      (4)   Through public informational programs, educating the populace as to
actions necessary and required for the protection of their persons and property
in case of enemy attack or defined herein, either impending or present;
      (5)   Conducting public practice alerts to ensure the efficient operation
of the emergency management forces and to familiarize residents with emergency
management regulations, procedures, and operations; and
      (6)   Coordinating the activity of all other public and private agencies
engaged in any emergency management activities.
(Ord. passed 12-16-2013)
§ 32.06 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLANS.
   (A)   Comprehensive emergency management plans shall be adopted and
maintained by resolution of the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Planning for fixed nuclear facilities shall also be included in the
comprehensive plan. In the preparation of these plans as it pertains to city
and county organization, it is intended that the services, equipment, and
facilities and personnel of all existing departments and agencies shall be
utilized to the fullest extent. When approved, it shall be the duty of all
departments and agencies to perform the functions assigned by these plans and
to maintain their portions of the plans in a current state of readiness at all
times. These plans shall have the effect of law whenever a disaster, as defined
in this chapter, has been proclaimed.
   (C)   The Coordinator shall prescribe in the emergency plans those positions
within the disaster organization, in addition to his or her own, for which
lines of succession are necessary. In each instance, the responsible person
will designate and keep on file with the Coordinator a current list of three
persons as successors to his or her position. The list will be in order of
succession and will, nearly as possible, designate persons best capable of
carrying out all assigned duties and functions.
   (D)   Each service chief and department head assigned responsibility in the
plans shall be responsible for carrying out all duties and functions assigned
therein. Duties will include the organization and training of assigned
employees and, where needed, volunteers. Each chief shall formulate the
standing operations procedure to implement the plans for his or her service.
   (E)   Amendments to these plans shall be submitted to the Coordinator. If
approved, the Coordinator will then submit the amendments to the Board of
Commissioners with his or her recommendation for its approval. Such amendments
shall take effect 30 days from the date of approval.
   (F)   When a required competency or skill or a disaster function is not
available within government, the Coordinator is authorized to seek assistance
from persons outside of government. The assignment of duties, when of a
supervisory nature, shall also include the granting of authority for the
persons so assigned to carry out such duties prior to, during, and after, the
occurrence of a disaster. Local government, on a voluntary basis, may accept
such services from persons outside of government. Such citizens shall be
enrolled as emergency management volunteers.
   (G)   The plan for and establish an emergency operations center capable for
24-hour operations.
   (H)   The Emergency Management Coordinator shall ensure that any mutual aid
agreements required are established and reviewed on an annual basis.
   (I)   The Emergency Management Coordinator shall ensure as needed that
declarations for state of emergency are drafted in accordance with G.S. Chapter
166A.
(Ord. passed 12-16-2013)
§ 32.07 NO MUNICIPAL OR PRIVATE LIABILITY.
   This chapter is an exercise by the county as its governmental functions for
the protection of the public peace, health, and safety, and neither the county
nor agents and representatives, if some, or any individual receiver, firm,
partnership, corporation, association, or trustee, or any of the agents thereof
in good faith carrying out, complying with, or attempting to comply with any
order, rule, or regulation promulgated pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, shall be liable for any damage sustained to person or property as the
result of said activity.
(Ord. passed 12-16-2013)
§ 32.08 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES, ORDERS, RULES, AND REGULATIONS SUSPENDED.
   At all times when the orders, rules, and regulations made and promulgated
pursuant to this chapter shall be in effect, they shall supersede all existing
ordinances, orders, rules, and regulations insofar as the latter may be
inconsistent therewith.
(Ord. passed 12-16-2013)
§ 32.09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect on December 16, 2013.
(Ord. passed 12-16-2013)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to violate any of the provisions of
this chapter or plans issued pursuant to the authority contained herein, or to
willfully obstruct, hinder, or delay any member of the Emergency Management
organization as herein defined in the enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter or any plan issued thereunder.
(Ord. passed 12-16-2013)
CHAPTER 33: PERSONNEL
Section
   
33.01   Personnel regulations adopted by reference
§ 33.01 PERSONNEL REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The county’s personnel regulations, and any and all amendments thereto, are
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. passed 10-19-2015; Ord. passed 10-3-2016; Ord. passed 10-17-2016; Ord.
passed 11-21-2016; Ord. passed 2-6-2017; Ord. passed 2-4-2019; Ord. passed 8-
19-2019; Ord. passed 10-7-2019; Ord. passed 12-2-2019; Ord. passed 4-6-2020;
Ord. 2022-14, passed 6-6-2022; Ord. 2024-17, passed 6-17-2024; Ord. passed 7-1-
2024; Ord. 2024-28, passed 10-21-2024)
CHAPTER 34: COUNTY ATTORNEY
Section
   
34.01   Duties
§ 34.01 DUTIES.
   The County Attorney is appointed by the Board of Commissioners and is
responsible for being principal legal advisor to the Board. The County
Attorney, along with Legal Department staff, shall represent the county in all
legal matters except in situations where certain county departments have their
own counsel and in situations where it is determined to be in the best interest
of the county to retain outside counsel. The County Attorney and staff
attorneys shall have the authority to defend and prosecute all legal matters on
behalf of the county and shall have the authority to retain outside counsel as
necessary to perform such duties.
(Ord. passed 3-2-2020)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
      
51.   WATER AND SEWER GENERALLY
      
52.   SEWER USE
      
53.   OIL AND GREASE CONTROL
      
54.   WATER SHORTAGE AND CONSERVATION
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
   
50.01   Title
   
50.02   Purpose and statutory authority
   
50.03   Jurisdiction
   
50.04   Definitions
   
50.05   Storage and disposal of solid waste
   
50.06   Landfill and mini-station management
   
50.07    Landfill and mini-site contents
   
50.08   Fees
   
50.09   Licensing of solid waste collectors
   
50.10   Collection and transportation of solid waste by solid waste collectors
   
50.11   Revocation of solid waste collectors license
   
50.12   Enforcement
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as “The Solid Waste Ordinance
of Harnett County, North Carolina”, or “chapter”, or “this chapter”.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1990)
§ 50.02 PURPOSE AND STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public safety, health,
and welfare of the citizens of the county in the storage, collection,
transportation, and disposal of solid waste throughout the county.
   (B)   Under provisions pursuant to G.S. §§ 153A-121; 153A-132.1; 153A-136;
153A-149(c)(31); 153A-274; and 153A-292, the county hereby exercises its
authority to enact these regulations.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1990)
§ 50.03 JURISDICTION.
   On and after the date of approval by the Board of Commissioners, these
regulations shall govern the storage, collection, transportation, and disposal
of solid waste in the county.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1990)
§ 50.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. Harnett County Board of Commissioners.
   BULKY WASTE. Large items of solid waste such as automobiles, discarded fuel
tanks, large auto parts, or other large items which cannot be handled by normal
disposal methods.
   COLLECTION. The act of removing solid waste from a point of generation to a
central storage point or to a disposal site, and from a central storage point
to a disposal site.
   COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste generated by stores, offices,
restaurants, warehouses, and other non-manufacturing activities.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE. Waste building materials, packaging, and
rubble resulting from construction, remodeling, repair, land clearing debris
(tree stumps, large limbs, and the like) and demolition operations on
pavements, houses, commercial buildings, and other structures.
   COUNTY. County of Harnett, North Carolina.
   DISPOSAL. The discharge, deposit, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or
placing of any solid waste into or on any land so that such solid waste or any
constituent thereof may enter the environment or be omitted into the air or
discharged into any water, including groundwaters.
   DIVISION OF HEALTH SERVICES. Division of Health Services of the North
Carolina Department of Human Resources.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible solid wastes, including food wastes and food
containers, animal and vegetable matter, animal offal and carcasses, and
recognizable industrial by-products, but excluding sewage and human waste.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Waste, or a combination of waste in a solid, liquid,
contained gaseous, or semisolid form that may cause, or contribute to, an
increase in mortality or an increase in serious irreversible, or incapacitating
reversible illness, taking into account the toxicity of such waste, its
persistence and degradability, its potential for accumulation or concentration
in tissue, and other factors that may otherwise cause or contribute to adverse
acute or chronic effects on the health of persons or other organisms.
   INDUSTRIAL SOLID WASTE. Any solid waste generated by industries and
manufacturing facilities.
   INFECTIOUS WASTE. 
      (1)   Equipment, instruments, utensils, and fomites of a disposable
nature from the rooms of patients who are suspected to have or have been
diagnosed as having a communicable disease and must, therefore, be isolated as
required by public health agencies.
      (2)   Laboratory wastes, such as pathological specimens (e.g., all
tissues, specimens of blood elements, excreta, and secretions from patients or
laboratory animals) and disposable fomites (any substance that may harbor or
transmit pathogenic organisms) attendant thereto.
      (3)   Surgical operating room pathologic specimens and disposable fomites
attendant thereto, and similar disposable materials from outpatient areas and
emergency rooms.
   INSTITUTIONAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste generated by educational, healthcare,
correctional, and other institutional facilities.
   LICENSE. A written document from the solid waste enforcement officer
granting permission for the collection, transportation, or disposal of solid
waste.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, governmental unit, agency, organization,
association, partnership, corporation, company, or other legal entity.
   PUTRESCIBLE. Solid waste capable of being decomposed by micro-organisms with
sufficient rapidity as to cause nuisance from odors and gasses, such as kitchen
waste, offal, and carcasses.
   RADIOACTIVE WASTE. Any waste that emit ionizing radiation spontaneously.
   REFUSE. Solid waste, excluding garbage and ashes, collected from residences,
commercial establishments, and institutions.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. Facility for the final disposal of solid waste.
   SCRAP TIRE. A tire that is no longer suitable for its original, intended
purpose because of wear, damage, or defect.
   SCRAP TIRE COLLECTION SITE. A site used for the storage of scrap tires.
   SLUDGE. Any solid, semisolid, or liquid waste generated from a municipal,
commercial, institutional, or industrial wastewater treatment plant, water
supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility or any other waste
having similar characteristics and effects.
   SLURRY. A waste with a high liquid content not easily de-watered.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse, rubbish, pebbles, trash, and other discarded
solid materials, including solid waste materials resulting from industrial,
commercial, and agricultural operations and from community activities, but does
not include fowl or animal fecal waste, solids or dissolved materials in
domestic sewage, or other significant pollutants in water resources, such as
silt, dissolved or suspended solids in industrial wastewater effluents,
dissolved materials in irrigation return flows, or other common water
pollutants.
   SOLID WASTE COLLECTOR. Any person who collects, transports, or disposes of
solid waste not including private citizens disposing of their own personal
solid waste.
   SOLID WASTE COMPACTION MINI-STATION. Any site designated, operated, and
maintained by the county for the purpose of collecting and compacting for
transfer household wastes from private citizens.
   SOLID WASTE DIRECTOR. The enforcement officer of this chapter or his or her
designated agent as appointed by the Board of Commissioners.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. Any place at which solid waste is disposed of by
sanitary landfill or other authorized methods.
   SOLID WASTE RECEPTACLE. Large metal container used for the temporary storage
of solid waste and capable of being automatically emptied into collection
vehicles.
   SPECIAL WASTE. Solid waste that can require special handling and management
including white goods, whole tires, used oil, asbestos material, lead-acid
batteries, and medical waste.
   WHITE GOODS. Includes inoperative and discarded refrigerators, ranges, water
heaters, freezers, and other similar domestic and commercial large appliances.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1990)
§ 50.05 STORAGE AND DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   Storage.
      (1)   No owner, occupant, tenant, or lessee of any property shall permit
solid waste emanating from said premises to accumulate upon such premises
unless stored in a manner prescribed by this chapter.
      (2)   All putrecible waste shall be stored in containers which are
durable, rust resistant, watertight, and easily cleaned with a close fitting,
fly-tight cover in place. Each container shall be kept clean so that no odor or
other nuisance condition exists.
      (3)   The owner, occupant, tenant, or lessee of any property shall remove
or cause to be removed all solid waste from his or her property at least once
each week (seven-day period).
      (4)   No owner, occupant, tenant, or lessee of any building or dwelling
may leave, outside the building or dwelling in a place accessible to children,
any abandoned or unattended ice box, refrigerator, or other receptacle that has
an airtight door without first removing the door.
   (B)   Disposal. Acceptable methods of disposal shall be as follows:
      (1)   In a sanitary landfill approved and permitted by the state’s
Department of Environment, Health and Natural Resources, Division of Solid
Waste Management;
      (2)   In a demolition landscape landfill approved and permitted by the
Department of Environment, Health and Natural Resources, Division of Solid
Waste Management;
      (3)   In an incinerator that has all applicable local, state, and federal
permits;
      (4)   In solid waste station, landfill container, or recycling collection
site provided by the county;
      (5)   A householder may dispose of solid waste generated at his or her
residence on his or her property provided that such disposal is in accordance
with all state and local solid waste directives; and
      (6)   By reclamation, recycling, or other resource recovery methods.
   (C)   Hazardous and radioactive wastes. Hazardous and radioactive wastes
shall be disposed of according to the applicable federal and state regulations.
   (D)   Requirements if choosing not to use a collection service. 
      (1)   It is anticipated that many of the persons in the county will be
offered collection service by a collector of solid waste.
      (2)   Any person not using a collector will be required, upon request,
for cause or as a result of complaints received by the Solid Waste Director, to
explain and show the Solid Waste Director the method and means of disposal of
his or her solid waste and where refuse is being disposed.
   (E)   Burning of solid waste. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to
allow open burning of any solid waste, except as authorized, if at all, by
applicable state air quality control regulation.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1990) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 LANDFILL AND MINI-STATION MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Any private citizen who is a resident of the county may dispose of
solid waste at a county solid waste disposal site including the sanitary
landfill, one of the compaction mini-stations, or a county recycling collection
site. Only solid waste generated in the county shall be disposed of at any of
the county solid waste facilities. All compaction mini-stations shall accept
only household waste from private citizens. No solid waste of any businesses or
solid waste collectors shall be deposited at the compaction mini-stations. All
solid waste collected by municipalities, institutions, businesses, or
commercial haulers must be disposed of at the sanitary landfill.
   (B)   Solid waste shall only be disposed of during normal operating hours as
determined by the Board of Commissioners. The county shall have the landfill
manager or one of his or her representatives at all solid waste disposal sites
during the hours of normal operation.
   (C)   Solid waste shall be disposed of at all solid waste disposal sites in
the manner and according to the procedures required by the landfill manager or
his or her representative. Construction and demolition waste, white goods,
scrap tires, or any other designated waste shall only be disposed of in the
area designated for disposal of that particular waste.
   (D)   Mini station container sites, sanitary landfill sites, including all
equipment, appurtenances, and fixtures thereon, are property of the county and
it shall be unlawful for any person to destroy, deface, misuse, or damage said
property in any manner whatsoever. All such public property shall be used and
operated solely in the county, and shall not be removed from the county without
written authority from the Solid Waste Director. Furthermore, it shall be
unlawful for any person, not expressly authorized, to enter any of the above
properties when the same shall be posted as closed.
   (E)   All persons using mini-station container sites, sanitary landfills, or
recycling collection sites, assume all risks and are requested to employ all
possible safety precautions while on any of these sites. The county shall not
be held liable in case of injury or accident.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to set or cause to be set any fire
in a solid waste container at the landfill or a mini-station location. No
person shall place in a container embers, ashes, or other material which would
create a fire hazard. The county offers a $500 reward for the arrest and
conviction of anyone found guilty of burning or causing to burn solid waste
containers.
   (G)   Solid waste placed in containers owned by the county becomes the
property of the county. It shall be unlawful for any person to remove any item
from a solid waste collection site at the landfill, a mini-station location, or
a recycling station. No person shall climb on, around, or inside a container.
No person shall open or attempt to open any solid waste container.
   (H)   No person or persons shall loiter and/or congregate on any container
site property, landfill property, or recycling station. No vehicle shall be
left unattended on said property. Any vehicle left unattended shall be towed
away at the owner’s expense.
   (I)   (1)   All persons entering the sanitary landfill shall follow
instructions of the attendant and all signs for access to unloading areas, and
all vehicles shall unload and depart as expeditiously as possible so as not to
unnecessarily interfere with the operation and maintenance of the sanitary
landfill.
      (2)   All vehicles, including all municipal and county vehicles, upon
entering the landfill gates shall follow all speed, directional, and
instructional signs, and shall proceed in an orderly fashion.
      (3)   All vehicles, including all municipal and county vehicles, shall
have a maximum of ten minutes to unload.
      (4)   All vehicles, including municipal and county vehicles, after
unloading shall follow all directional signs and exit in the appropriate
traffic lane.
   (J)   The following shall be the responsibility of the landfill or mini-
station user:
      (1)   Define accurately the nature, content, and source of all materials
delivered;
      (2)   Ensure that their vehicles are in good mechanical condition to aid
traffic snarls and the like;
      (3)   Require that all children (15 years old or less) remain inside the
vehicle on site;
      (4)   Obey all instructions of county landfill personnel both written and
oral; and
      (5)   Respect hours of operation. Dump only during hours of operation.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1990) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 LANDFILL AND MINI-SITE CONTENTS.
   (A)   The following table details materials which are acceptable,
conditionally acceptable, and not acceptable to deliver to the county’s
landfill.
Acceptability of Material for Landfill
Acceptable Conditional Acceptance (See Landfill Supervisor) Not Acceptable
Acceptability of Material for Landfill
Acceptable               Conditional Acceptance     Not Acceptable
                         (See Landfill Supervisor)
                                                    Any fire or highly
Brush, tree trimmings,   Metal filings, cuttlings,  flammable material, brush,
leaves, and general      and trimmings              and tree trimmings when
refuse residences                                   mixed with any other types
                                                    of solid waste
Cardboard and wooden     Plastic cuttling and
containers from          trimmings. Demolition and
businesses and industry  construction waste in
                         quantities
Cardboard drums (empty   Textile waste not boxed or
and without lids or      bagged, particularly long  Radioactive waste
covers)                  thread waste
Demolition and           Plastic bags or wrappers
construction waste in    in quantities; waste from
small quantities         land clearing operations
Garbage and rubbish from
routine collection                                  Any liquid or semi-liquid
services at residences   Dead animals               waste
and commercial
establishments
                                                    Any chemical that may be
Household appliances,                               dangerous to employees or
furniture, bedding                                  equipment or that may
                                                    pollute the groundwater
Street refuse and litter Metal drums, if ends cut
                         out wire in quantities
Textile cones and tubes  Metal bands in quantities
Textile waste when boxed
bailed
 
   (B)   Scrap tire disposal shall be governed by the state’s Scrap Tire
Disposal Act (G.S. §§ 130A-309.51 through 130A-309.64). Scrap tires shall only
be accepted at the county’s designated disposal site. Scrap tires will only be
accepted when accompanied by a completed and signed certification form, unless
the person disposing of the tires is legally exempt from having the
certification form.
   (C)   The following waste may not be deposited in mini-station containers:
      (1)   Hazardous waste;
      (2)   Liquid waste;
      (3)   Infectious waste;
      (4)   Radioactive waste;
      (5)   Bulky waste;
      (6)   Tires;
      (7)   Construction and demolition waste; and
      (8)   Burning or smoldering materials, or any other materials that would
create a fire hazard.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1990) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.08 FEES.
   (A)   General. The fees for the disposal of solid waste at any of the
county’s solid waste management sites shall be in accordance with the rate
structure adopted by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Availability and use fees for solid waste disposal facilities.
      (1)   Purpose and intent. The provisions of this chapter are such as to
impose fees for the availability and use of a disposal facility provided by the
county. Availability fees imposed hereunder shall not exceed the cost of
providing the facility and shall be imposed on all improved property in the
county that benefits from the availability of the facility. Fees for use of the
facility shall not exceed the cost of operating the facility and may be imposed
only on those who use the facility.
      (2)   Authority. This chapter is adopted under the authority of G.S. §§
153A-292 and 153A-293.
      (3)   Applicability. This chapter is applicable to all owners of improved
property in the county that benefit from the availability of the facility and
commercial, municipal, and industrial users of the facility, subject to the
provisions of G.S. § 153A-292(b).
      (4)   Fees. Except as otherwise herein provided, the following fees shall
be imposed.
         (a)   A fee of $37.50 per unit shall be imposed on the improved
property of each owner (as of July 1 of the fiscal year for which the fee is
collected) within the county that benefits from the availability of the
facility, and thereafter said fee per unit, per year will be established
annually by the Board of Commissioners in the annual budget ordinance. For the
purposes of this chapter, UNIT means a potential generator of solid waste and
shall include, but not be limited to, each individual residence, mobile home,
apartment unit, condominium unit, commercial enterprise, manufacturer,
industrial plant, utility, church, school, hospital, rest home facility, and
non-profit institution. This fee shall be applied separately for each
individual business, store, or other entity within a commercial enterprise.
         (b)   A fee of $25 per ton shall be imposed on all solid waste
deposited by commercial, municipal, and industrial entities which use the
facility, and thereafter, said fee per ton shall be established by the Board of
Commissioners in the annual budget ordinance; provided, however, said fee shall
not apply to solid waste deposited by commercial and municipal haulers which is
collected from residential customers within the county.
         (c)   A fee of $25 per ton shall be collected from individuals,
commercial, municipal, and industrial haulers that deposit stumps, limbs,
leaves, concrete, brick, wood, construction debris, and uncontaminated earth in
the demolition landfill. Thereafter, said fee per ton, shall be established by
the Board of Commissioners in the annual budget ordinance. There will be no
charge for yard waste delivered separated in the following categories:
            1.   Leaves and grass clippings only;
            2.   Limbs under six inches in diameter and six feet or less in
length; and/or
            3.   Wood products; clean and in natural state (without paint and
the like and six feet or less in length).
         (d)   Fees for tire disposal, as set forth below, shall be collected
from individuals, and commercial, municipal, and industrial haulers in
accordance with Senate Bill 111, Chapter 784. Such fees shall supersede any
tire disposal fees adopted or established prior to July 20, 1992. Thereafter,
said fees shall be established by the Board of Commissioners in the annual
budget ordinance:
            1.   Fifty cents each: car and light truck - up to 16.5;
            2.   One dollar and twenty-five cents each: medium and large truck
- over 16.5;
            3.   Two dollars and fifty cents each: farm tractor tires;
            4.   Three dollars and seventy-five cents each: construction, heavy
equipment type; and
            5.   Fifty cents per/20 pounds: tire pieces (cut, shredded, and the
like).
      (5)   Collection and enforcement.
         (a)   Improved real property. The fee imposed by this chapter upon
owners of all improved property who benefit from the availability of the
facility shall be billed with property taxes pursuant to G.S. § 153A-293 and
shall be payable in the same manner as property taxes; provided, however, that
in the event of nonpayment, said fee shall be collected in any manner in which
delinquent personal or real property taxes can be collected and that, until
paid, the fees imposed shall constitute a lien on the real property described
on the bill that includes the fee. In conjunction with, and in the same manner
as used for billing owners for property taxes, the county’s Tax Administrator
shall bill owners who are not otherwise subject to taxation for the
availability fees imposed by this chapter.
         (b)   Commercial, municipal, and industrial users. As a condition for
the disposition of solid waste of all kinds by commercial, municipal, and
industrial users at the facility, the users of said facilities shall run an
account approved by the county’s Finance Officer, which account shall be
payable in full on a monthly basis. In the event of nonpayment of the monthly
account, the privilege of the use of the facility may be suspended. Until the
account is fully paid, the suspension, as herein provided, may remain in full
force and effect.
      (6)   Residential solid waste sticker. The owners of improved property
shall be supplied by the county with one sticker per unit, which shall be
displayed above the state inspection sticker on the windshield of the vehicle
being used for disposal purposes. This will allow each resident to dispose of
household garbage at any county solid waste convenience center or landfill.
      (7)   Effective date. This division (B) shall be effective as of July 1,
1992.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1990; Ord. passed 8-3-1992) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.09 LICENSING OF SOLID WASTE COLLECTORS.
   (A)   No person, municipality, institution, or business shall for-profit
collect, transport, or dispose of solid waste without a license from the
county’s Solid Waste Director, provided that this chapter shall not apply to
any person disposing of solid waste from his or her own residence or business,
unless he or she hires a person to do so. All solid waste collectors currently
collecting solid waste in county shall have six months to apply for a license
to transport solid waste. If no license is obtained, the hauler will
discontinue collection in the county. Applications for permits to engage in the
business of solid waste collection shall be filed with the Solid Waste Director
on forms approved by the Solid Waste Director. Fees for licenses issued to
solid waste collectors shall be set by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall be for one year which
shall be for the fiscal year beginning July 1, and ending June 30, except that
licenses issued to collectors of garbage, refuse, and solid wastes and to
operators of disposal facilities for such garbage, refuse, and solid waste,
within a fiscal year shall only be for a period beginning on the date such
license is issued and ending the immediately following June 30.
   (C)   The applicant for a solid waste collection license shall furnish the
following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant and whether a sole
proprietorship, corporation, or partnership, with disclosure of the ownership
interests;
      (2)   A list of the equipment possessed, available, or to be obtained by
the applicant;
      (3)   Number of employees the applicant expects to use in the business;
      (4)   Experience of the applicant in solid waste collection;
      (5)   Balance sheet or equivalent financial statement as of the close of
the applicant’s last business year showing the net worth of the business;
      (6)   Planned routes and areas of the county the applicant expects to
serve and routes currently being served with all collection points identified
on the routes;
      (7)   Schedule of fees the applicant plans to charge and any proposed fee
changes; and
      (8)   Proof of adequate insurance coverage on all vehicles.
   (D)   (1)   The Solid Waste Director shall inspect or cause to be inspected
all facilities and equipment the applicant plans to use in the solid waste
collection business prior to issuing a license to the solid waste collector.
      (2)   The collector also agrees to provide continued access to records
requested by the Solid Waste Director.
   (E)   After reviewing the applicant for a solid waste collector’s license,
the Solid Waste Director may either grant or deny the permit. If the Solid
Waste Director denies the permit, the applicant may request a hearing before
the County Commissioners or any board appointed by them for the purpose of
hearing such disputes. All appeals must be received in writing at least seven
working days before any scheduled board meeting. After a hearing on the appeal,
the Board shall either affirm the denial of the license or direct the Solid
Waste Director to issue the license.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1990) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.10 COLLECTION AND TRANSPORTATION OF SOLID WASTE BY SOLID WASTE COLLECTORS.
   (A)   No person for hire shall collect or transport solid waste without
first obtaining the appropriate privilege license.
   (B)   No person for hire shall transport solid waste upon the public roads
by any mode of conveyance that has not been inspected and approved for use by
the Solid Waste Director.
   (C)   (1)   Vehicles or containers used for the collection and
transportation of garbage or refuse shall be covered, leakproof, durable, and
of easily cleanable construction.
      (2)   Open body trucks or other vehicles used in collection and
transportation of solid waste will be covered with canvas or other substantial
material to prevent contents from falling, leaking, spilling, or being blown
from the vehicle.
   (D)   All licensed solid waste collectors for hire shall display plainly
visible decals or lettering on the vehicle showing name and address or phone
number of the owner. Such information shall be on file with the Solid Waste
Director.
   (E)   Solid waste collectors for hire shall remove garbage or refuse from
the premises at least once a week.
   (F)   All solid waste collected shall be disposed of daily in a licensed
sanitary landfill.
   (G)   Licensed solid waste collectors are required to notify the Solid Waste
Director 15 days prior to any discontinuance of collection routes or portions
thereof.
   (H)   No collector for hire shall dispose of solid waste in the solid waste
containers provided by the county.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1990) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.11 REVOCATION OF SOLID WASTE COLLECTORS LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   Any license issued for collection and transportation of solid
waste may be revoked for violations of applicable regulations pertaining to the
management of solid waste.
      (2)   Whenever, upon inspection of facilities, equipment or operating
methods or practices of any person licensed and performing collection and
transportation services, the Solid Waste Director finds that conditions or
practices exist which are not in compliance with applicable regulations the
Solid Waste Director shall give notice in writing to such person that unless
such conditions or practices are corrected or remedied within ten days, then
the collector’s license may be revoked. Notice shall include date, time, and
place of reinspection by the Solid Waste Director.
      (3)   If, after reinspection, the Solid Waste Division finds conditions
or practices not corrected, the collector will be notified that its license has
been revoked. Upon receipt of this notice of revocation, the licensee shall
stop collecting and transporting solid waste for hire.
      (4)   The Solid Waste Director may reinstate a revoked license after
revocation has been in effect for 30 days if he or she finds that the
conditions causing the violation have been corrected.
      (5)   The license holder may request, in writing to the Solid Waste
Director, a hearing before the Board of Commissioners, or such other board
appointed by the Commissioners to hear such matters, in order that the license
holder may justify why such license should not be revoked. Such requests shall
be received by the Solid Waste Director no later than ten days following notice
of license revocation.
      (6)   After hearing of the appeal, the Board of Commissioners, or such
other board appointed by the Commissioners to hear such matters, shall affirm
the revocation or direct the Solid Waste Director to reinstate the license.
      (7)   Reinstatement or reissuance of a license to collect and transport
solid waste will be subject to review and rehearing by the Board of
Commissioners, or any board designated by them to hear such matters.
   (B)   Any solid waste collector for hire observed dumping at a solid waste
mini-station site shall be warned in writing from the Solid Waste Director that
if the solid waste collector is observed dumping in a mini-station site a
second time his or her license shall be immediately revoked for a minimum of 60
days.
   (C)   Any solid waste collector who transports uncovered solid waste shall
be warned the first time such a violation is cited. The second violation shall
result in an immediate 60-day suspension of the collector’s solid waste
collector’s license.
   (D)   Any solid waste collector who attempts to dispose of waste not
acceptable at the county’s landfill will be cited in writing for such
violation. The second such violation shall result in an immediate 60-day
suspension of the collector’s privilege license.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1990) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.12 ENFORCEMENT.
   The rules and regulations prescribed in this chapter shall be enforced by
the appropriate county agencies having duties and responsibilities in the areas
of health, solid waste disposal, and law enforcement.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1990) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor
and any person convicted of such violation shall be punishable as provided in
G.S. § 14-4. Each day’s violation of this chapter shall be a separate offense.
Payment of a fine imposed in criminal proceedings pursuant to this division (A)
does not relieve a person of his or her liability for taxes or fees imposed
under or pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   In addition, enforcement of this chapter may be by appropriate
equitable remedy, injunction, or order of abatement issuing from a court of
competent jurisdiction pursuant to G.S. § 153A-123(d) and (e), or any other
applicable law.
   (C)   In addition to, and not in lieu of, the criminal penalties and other
sanctions provided in this chapter, a violation of this chapter may also
subject the offender to the civil penalties hereinafter set forth.
      (1)   Such civil penalties may be recovered by the county in a civil
action in the nature of debt or may be collected in such other amounts as
prescribed herein within the prescribed time following the issuance of notice
for such violation.
      (2)   Such notice shall, among other things:
         (a)   State upon its face the amount of the penalty;
         (b)   Notify such offender that a failure to pay the penalties within
the prescribed time shall subject such offender to a civil action in the nature
of debt for the stated penalty together with the cost of the action to be taxed
by the court; and
         (c)   Further provide that such offender may answer the said notice by
mailing said notice and stated penalty to the County Manager and that, upon
payment, such case or claim and right of action by the county will be deemed
compromised and settled.
      (3)   The County Manager is authorized to accept such payments in full
and final settlement of the claim or claims, right or rights of action which
the county may have to enforce such penalty by civil action in the nature of
debt. Acceptance of such penalty shall be deemed a full and final release of
any and all such claims, or rights of action arising out of such alleged
violation or violations.
      (4)   The civil penalty for violation of this chapter is $100.
      (5)   The notice of violation referred to herein may be delivered to the
person violating the provisions of this chapter in person, or may be mailed to
said person at his or her last known address.
      (6)   All penalties paid to the County Manager as well as those recovered
in a civil action in the nature of debt as herein provided shall be paid into
the General Fund of the county.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1990)
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWER GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Authority
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Delinquent service fees
   
51.04   Fee schedule
Regulations, Connections, and Conditions
   
51.15   Water laterals and tap-on
   
51.16   Connection to be made by HRW only upon application
   
51.17   Application for connection
   
51.18   Disapproval of application
   
51.19   Separate water and sewer connections and meters required
   
51.20   Connections and meters to remain property of HRW
   
51.21   Maintenance of meters and connections
   
51.22   Connection to other supply and cross-connection control
   
51.23   When water meters read
   
51.24   Adjustment of overcharges
   
51.25   Meter tests
   
51.26   Bulk water usage
   
51.27   Tampering with meters and stopcocks
   
51.28   No guarantee of quality, quantity, or pressure of water supply
   
51.29   Protection of water supply
   
51.30   Procedures
   
51.31   Initial or minimum charge
   
51.32   HRW’s responsibility and liability
   
51.33   Consumer’s responsibility
   
51.34   Access to premises
   
51.35   Change of occupancy
   
51.36   Suspension of service
   
51.37   Complaints; adjustments
   
51.38   Classifications, rates, fees, and charges
   
51.39   Connection to existing systems
   
51.40   Sprinkler connections
   
51.41   Provision for cut-off valve
Extensions
   
51.55   Water and sewer extensions in new developments
   
51.56   Acquisition of easements for developers in county participation
projects
   
51.57   Extension of water and sewer lines within county
   
51.58   Extensions outside of county
   
51.59   Extension made by other than HRW personnel
   
51.60   Observation by HRW of work done by others
   
51.61   Dedication of water and sewer line extensions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to G.S. §§ 153A-275, 162A-85.5 and Chapter
162A, Article 6, for the purpose of providing adequate and reasonable rules and
regulations to protect and regulate water supply and distribution systems and
sewer collection systems owned or operated by HRW. The chapter is also adopted
pursuant to G.S. §§ 153A-277, 162A-85.13, 162A-88, 162A-92 and Chapter 162A,
Article 8 for the purpose of establishing a schedule of rents, rates, fees,
charges, and penalties for the use of and services furnished by water supply
and distribution systems and sewer collection systems owned or operated by HRW.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR-GAP SEPARATION. An unobstructed vertical distance through the atmosphere
between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank,
plumbing fixture, or other device and the flood level rim of the receptacle.
   ALLOCATION. The assignment or apportionment of water and/or sewer to serve a
certain defined area.
   AUXILIARY INTAKE. Any piping connection or other device whereby water may be
secured from a source other than the public water supply.
   BACKFLOW. Any flow of water into the public water supply from any other
source due to a cross-connection, auxiliary intake, interconnection,
backpressure, backsiphonage, any combination thereof, or other cause.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. An approved effective device method used to
prevent backflow from occurring in the potable water supply. The type of device
shall be based on degree of hazard, existing or potential.
   BACKPRESSURE. Any pressure on any source of water other than the public
water supply which may be greater than the pressure on the public water supply
and may result in a backflow.
   BACKSIPHONAGE. Any circumstance in which the pressure on the public water
supply may be reduced to the point that the elevation and atmospheric pressure
on a source of water other than the public water supply may result in a
pressure to be greater than the pressure on the public water supply and may
result in a backflow.
   BUILDING. A structure as defined in Volume VII, One and Two Families, and
Volume I, General Construction, of the NC State Building Code.
   CAPACITY. Represents the ability to treat or move water and/or sewer.
Typically, capacity is expressed in gallons per day (GPD) or million gallons
per day (MGD).
   CONFINEMENT DEVICE. A backflow prevention device that is installed within a
private plumbing or distribution system to isolate a localized hazard from the
remainder of said system.
   CONNECTION. That part of the water service line which runs from the main to
the property line, including all appurtenances, to make the service complete
and ready for use.
   CONSUMER. The person legally or equitably responsible for the payment of
charges for water or sewer on any premises.
   CONTAINMENT DEVICE. A backflow prevention device installed at the point of
separation between the public water supply and a private service or private
distribution system at the point of metering.
   CONTRACTOR. A person or entity, licensed by the State of North Carolina
Licensing Board, under contract to the developer to perform the construction of
water and sewer infrastructure of the development.
   CONTROLLED BY. Owned, operated, or leased by.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection whereby the public water supply is
connected with any other water supply system, whether public or private, either
inside or outside of any building or buildings, in such a manner that a flow of
water into the public water supply is possible either through the manipulation
of valves or because of ineffective check or back-pressure of any other
arrangement.
   CUT-OFF VALVE. A valve used to regulate the water supply to the consumer's
premises.
   DEPARTMENT. Harnett Regional Water.
   DEVELOPER. Any person, firm, corporation, or other legal entity improving
property for commercial, industrial, or residential purposes.
   DEVELOPMENT. Property improved for commercial, industrial, or residential
purposes.
   DISTRICT. Any HRW water and sewer district established pursuant to G.S.
Chapter 162A, Article 6.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE. An assembly composed of two single, spring-loaded
independently operating check valves, including tightly closing shut-off valves
located at each end of the assembly, and having suitable connections for
testing the water tightness of each check valve.
   DUAL CHECK VALVE. A device containing two independently acting check valves
in series.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   ENGINEER OF RECORD. A person licensed as a Professional Engineer in good
standing with the North Carolina State Board of Registration for Professional
Engineers and Land Surveyors acting as an agent for the developer with regard
to water and sewer line extensions.
   FIRE LINE. A system of pipes and equipment used to supply water in an
emergency for extinguishing fire.
   FLOW. The actual amount of water and/or sewer being treated or moved. Flow
is frequently expressed in gallons per day (GPD) or million gallons per day
(MGD).
   FULL SERVICE SPRINKLER CONNECTION. A separate metered connection originating
at a main and running to the property line, and includes all appurtenances, to
make the connection complete and ready for use. This connection is independent
of any other water connection on the premises and shall not be connected to any
plumbing or other pipeline where residual water therefrom is required to be
discharged into the sewer system.
   HRW. Shall mean Harnett Regional Water.
   IMPROVED STREET. Any street having a wearing surface of concrete, brick,
stone block, asphalt, or any bituminous compound.
   INTERCONNECTION. Any system of piping or other arrangement whereby the
public water supply is connected directly with a sewer, drain, conduit, pool,
heat exchanger, storage reservoir, or other device which does or may contain
sewage or other waste or substance which would be capable of imparting
contamination to the public water supply.
   LATERAL. That portion of the water connection which does not include meter,
box or meter setter or connection.
   MAIN. The pipe usually laid in a street running parallel to the property
line which distributes water or collects sewer.
   MAY. Permissive. (See SHALL.)
   NCDEQ. North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality.
   NCDWQ. North Carolina Division of Water Quality.
   OCCUPANT. The consumer who is actually in possession or control of any
premises.
   OWNER. The person having legal or equitable title to any premises.
   PAYMENT PLAN. An agreed upon schedule for satisfying a consumer’s delinquent
account status.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation.
   PREMISES. Land, building, or other structure, and appurtenances thereto.
   PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER. An assembly containing an independently operating
spring loaded check valve and an independently operating loaded air inlet valve
located on the discharge side of the check valve. The assembly must be equipped
with suitable connections for testing the proper operation of the device and
tightly closing shut-off valves located at each end of the assembly.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. The water and waterworks system of HRW, and its
consumers outside the county boundary, for the provision of piped water for
human consumption, and which supply is recognized as a public and community
water system by the North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality,
Division of Environmental Health, Public Water Supply Section.
   RECORD DRAWINGS. Drawings prepared by the engineer that indicate the details
of the system following the construction phase and that at least meet the
minimum standards set forth by the State of North Carolina and the North
Carolina Licensing Board for Engineers and Land Surveyors and the HRW Sanitary
Sewer and Water Specification.
   REDUCED PRESSURE ZONE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE (RPZ). A device
containing within its structure, two spring loaded independently operating
check valves, together with automatically operating check valves, together with
an automatically operating pressure differential relief valve located between
the two check valves. The first check valve reduces the supply pressure a
predetermined amount so that during normal flow and at cessation of formal flow
the pressure between the checks shall be less than the supply pressure. In case
of leakage of either check valve, the differential relief valve, by discharging
into the atmosphere, shall operate to maintain the pressure between the check
valves less than the supply pressure. The device shall have suitable
connections for testing, including tightly closing shut-off valves located at
each end.
   RETROFITTED SPRINKLER CONNECTION. A second metered connection originating at
a point along that segment of the existing service line between the main and
the first or existing meter and running to the property line, and includes all
appurtenances to make the connections complete and ready for use. The
RETROFITTED SPRINKLER CONNECTION shall not be connected to any plumbing or
other pipeline where residual water therefrom is required to be discharged into
the sewer system.
   SERVICE LINE. A water line which may service a house, business, apartments,
and the like, which runs from the street to the establishment being served.
   SHALL. Mandatory. (See MAY.)
   STANDARD SIZE MAIN. Refers to a six-inch diameter water main and an eight-
inch diameter sewer main.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a tract, parcel, or lot into two or more lots
or building sites or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of sale, legacy, or building development and includes all division of
land involving a new street or change in existing streets to include re-
subdivision. Subdivision shall also refer to uses of land not ordinarily
considered a subdivision, but requiring utility installations. Examples of
these uses are mobile home parks, multi-family projects townhouses, and planned
unit developments.
   SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT FEE. A charge or assessment for service imposed with
respect to new development to fund costs of capital improvements necessitated
by and attributable to such new development, to recoup costs of existing
facilities which serve such new development, or a combination of those costs.
The term includes amortized charges, lump-sum charges, and any other fee that
functions as described by this definition regardless of terminology.
   UNIT. Refers to a residential housing unit such as an apartment,
condominium, or duplex.
   UNUSUAL CONDITIONS. Delays in acquiring materials, parts and/or supplies,
rock encountered in construction, and other items which might cause delays not
under the control of HRW.
   WATER AND SEWER PLANS. An engineered drawing, signed and seal by the
engineer of record, in conformance with the HRW Sanitary Sewer and Water
Specifications that delineates the water and sewer infrastructure as well as
other on-site improvements proposed for the development of the subject
property.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020)
§ 51.03 DELINQUENT SERVICE FEES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (E) of this section, when a consumer
shall have failed to pay their account (as specified in division (C) of this
section) by the due date set forth on their bill, a delinquent service fee
shall be imposed upon the consumer and the amount of such fee shall be added to
the balance due.
   (B)   The amount of the delinquent service fee provided for in this section
shall be the sum of $10.
   (C)   A consumer shall have failed to pay his account when the full amount
charged to the consumer for service supplied as stated on their bill has not
been paid over to and received by HRW by 5:00 p.m. on the due date set forth on
the bill.
   (D)   The bill, which shall be mailed to a consumer setting forth the
charges due for services supplied, shall state the due date, the amount of the
bill if paid by the due date, the amount of the bill if paid after the due
date, and shall further state that if payment is not made by the due date that
the delinquent service fee will be charged.
   (E)   When a consumer has paid all bills rendered to him by the due date set
forth on each bill for 12 consecutive billing periods, should that consumer
then make a payment after a due date, the delinquent service fee shall be
waived for that period.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020)
§ 51.04 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The service fees shall be set by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed - -)
REGULATIONS, CONNECTIONS, AND CONDITIONS
§ 51.15 WATER LATERALS AND TAP-ON.
   Water laterals will be installed only at the request of the owner or his
agent. When the lateral terminates at the property line, the meter shall not be
set and the lateral shall not be used until the owner of the property or his
agent applies for service.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020)
§ 51.16 CONNECTION TO BE MADE BY HRW ONLY UPON APPLICATION.
   The construction of water laterals within the street right-of-way and the
setting of meters shall be the responsibility of HRW. The construction of such
lateral or the setting of such meter shall be done only after the written
application therefor has been approved. The only exception to this provision
will be when laterals and meter yokes are installed by developer's contractors
in new subdivisions in compliance with rules, regulations, and specifications
as shall be established by HRW from time to time.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020)
§ 51.17 APPLICATION FOR CONNECTION.
   Every application for water service shall list, on forms provided by HRW,
the property owner, the applicant's name, social security number, driver's
license number, phone number, and all other relative forms of identification
required by HRW, the street on which the lot is located, the number of the
house or a description of the lot location, the number of all types of fixtures
planned in the building now and proposed for the future, the distance from the
property line where service comes from the street to the furthermost point of
the building as planned, and the name of the plumber who will do the work. This
application shall be filed not less than ten days before the proposed
connection is desired. Unusual conditions may be just cause for additional time
in providing the services required. When the size of the service and the cost
of the connection have been determined, the applicant shall deposit the
previously determined cost and shall be issued a permit for the desired
connection.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020)
§ 51.18 DISAPPROVAL OF APPLICATION.
   If, in the opinion of HRW through its duly constituted authority, the water
connection applied for will be of such size or character as to put too great a
demand on any part of the system and disrupt the HRW's ordinary water service
(500 GPM at 20 PSI residual plus normal service requirements), it shall
disapprove the application until such time as adequate means are provided by
the applicant to eliminate the unsatisfactory condition. If, at any time,
changes are made by a consumer in his service requirements so as to create an
unsatisfactory condition in the HRW's water service, HRW shall require the
consumer to adopt remedial measures to eliminate the unsatisfactory condition.
HRW shall not in any way be responsible for any cost or inconvenience caused by
a change in service requirements after an application has been approved, or by
an installation before the application has been approved.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020)
§ 51.19 SEPARATE WATER AND SEWER CONNECTIONS AND METERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each building shall have a separate meter, and where practicable shall
have a separate water lateral.
   (B)   In the event that one lateral is used for two dwellings, commercial,
or industrial buildings, or used to serve two or more meters for the same
dwelling, commercial, or industrial buildings, a separate cut-off shall be
provided for each meter. However, there shall be an exception to the
requirement for separate water meters in the case of groups of mobile homes or
apartment developments under single ownership. In the case of said groups of
mobile homes or apartment developments of more than ten units, one meter shall
be used for the entire project unless additional meters are deemed necessary by
the proper HRW authority, and the following conditions shall be met:
      (1)   Bills will be rendered to the owner of the property;
      (2)   The bill will be calculated by a minimum charge for the master
meter and for each of the total number of units included thereafter, and
calculating the remaining bill based on the total consumption passing through
the master meter above the minimum; provided, however, owners of ten or fewer
multiple units may elect to have water metered directly to each unit and the
charge therefore billed directly to the user in each unit; and
      (3)   Should any portion of the development be sold, the owners shall be
responsible for paying whatever additional costs would be involved in bringing
the divided development into compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.20 CONNECTIONS AND METERS TO REMAIN PROPERTY OF HRW.
   All meters, boxes, pipes, and other equipment furnished and installed by HRW
in a water or sewer connection shall remain the property of the HRW. If, after
an installation is completed, the property owner requests that a meter or
lateral be changed in size and this request is approved by HRW, the property
owner shall pay for the change of lateral as though it were a new connection
and shall pay or be credited the difference of the cost of meters in the
original and new installations according to the then current price of the two
meters.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020)
§ 51.21 MAINTENANCE OF METERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   All meter and water laterals shall be maintained by HRW at HRW's expense.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020)
§ 51.22 CONNECTION TO OTHER SUPPLY AND CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL.
   (A)   No part of the HRW's water system shall be connected to any source of
water supply other than those authorized by official action of the County Board
of Commissioners. If, on any premises, both HRW water and water from any other
source is used, the piping shall be completely separate. Pipes carrying water
from a source other than HRW's supply shall be painted yellow. It shall be
unlawful for any person to cause a cross-connection, auxiliary intake, or
interconnection to be made with the public water supply; or allow one to exist
for any purpose whatsoever.
   (B)   HRW has the responsibility to inspect properties served by the public
water supply where cross-connections with the public water supply are deemed
possible. The frequency of these inspections shall be set by the department.
HRW shall have the right to enter, at reasonable time, any nonresidential
property served by a connection to the public water supply for the purpose of
conducting these inspections. In those cases in which the property owner
chooses not to provide such access, HRW may designate the location as a high
hazard in accordance with the divisions below.
   (C)   The following uses shall be classified as hazardous uses:
      (1)   Hazardous uses include, but are not limited to: pumps or tanks
handling sewage, radioactive, lethal, or toxic substances, boiler and steam
connections, sewer waste lines, low inlets to receptacles containing toxic
substances, coils or jackets used as heat exchangers, flush valve toilets
without vacuum breaks, bacterial and viral materials, private wells or other
private water supply, irrigation systems, water systems or hose connections,
booster pumps, carbonation equipment, or similar hazard potential as determined
by the department.
      (2)   Any location at which the nature or mode of operation within a
premise are such that frequent alterations are made to the plumbing or at which
there is a likelihood in the determination of the department that protective
measures may be subverted, altered, or disconnected.
      (3)   Any facility which contains, but is not limited to, a bottling
plant, cannery, a building having five or more stories, battery manufacturer,
exterminator, greenhouse, chemical processing plant, dairy, dye works, film
laboratory, car wash, hospital, commercial laboratory, laundry, metal
fabrication operation, mortuary, swimming pool, morgue, x-ray equipment,
medical office with laboratory, aspirator, medical washing equipment, packing
house, plating plant, poultry house, power plant, nuclear reactor, pumped fire
sprinkler or riser system or those equipped with facilities for the
introduction of freeze preventive chemicals or other substances other than
water.
   (D)   All installations described in the above divisions (C)(1) through (C)
(3) shall be deemed hazardous uses, and must have a containment device in the
form of a reduced pressure zone backflow prevention device provided that, if
the consumer demonstrates to the satisfaction of HRW that sufficient internal
confinement devices have been installed and tested. The department may require
that the consumer provide engineering drawings sealed by a professional
engineer of installations within the premises, which provide complete internal
protection against cross-connection as approved by the department. Any such
connection shall be considered another connection for the purpose of
determining the type of containment device required. Each internal confinement
device shall be one of the following, as approved by HRW or their authorized
representative: reduced pressure zone principle backflow prevention device,
double check valve backflow prevention device, air gap, vacuum break-pressure
type, or dual check valve. Each reduced pressure zone principle backflow
prevention device serving as an internal confinement device shall have a mesh
strainer immediately upstream of the inlet gate valve.
   (E)   Services to single-family residential units, not otherwise required by
this chapter to have other containment devices, may have a containment device
in the form of a dual check valve. HRW supplies this dual check valve when
residential connections are installed. On all other services which other
containment devices are required the owner’s representative shall be required
to install these devices prior to the installation of a meter by HRW. On all
such services for which meters have been applied prior to the adoption of this
chapter, said dual check valve shall be installed by HRW, provided that the
department reserves the right to charge the owner or occupant of any residence
for the cost of said device and its installation. Maintenance of dual check
valve containment devices installed in accordance with this section shall be
conducted by the department.
   (F)   All other connections to the public water supply of HRW shall have
containment devices in the form of double check valve backflow prevention
devices as set forth in the following division. This shall include water mains
installed by HRW, including, but not limited to, mobile home parks, apartments,
group housing projects, and other private distribution systems, or similar
hazard potential as determined by HRW or their authorized representative.
   (G)   All containment devices shall be installed according to the following
procedure:
      (1)   The containment devices shall be located off street right-of-way on
the water main side of any plumbing connection. When installed in a building,
the device shall be located on the service line immediately after its entrance
into the building. Each containment and confinement device shall be installed
in a location which is physically accessible for inspection and testing as
determined by HRW. Containment devices which have been buried in the ground do
not satisfy the provisions of this chapter. Each reduced pressure principle
zone device shall be installed such that flooding of the device is unlikely as
determined by the department.
      (2)   HRW shall maintain a list of approved manufacturers and models of
hazard containment devices and drawings of standard installations, copies to be
made available through the administration office of the department. All
installations and materials shall conform to HRW standards.
      (3)   In those cases in which containment and/or confinement devices have
been previously installed by any party, the responsibility for maintenance,
testing, and replacement as applicable shall be with the consumer.
      (4)   The cost of said means of containment, and any other plumbing
modifications necessary and convenient thereto, and the testing and maintenance
thereof, is to be paid for by the consumer.
   (H)   Upon identification of a hazard, or hazard potential, as defined in
this section, HCDPU shall notify the consumer of record, via certified mail
with return receipt requested, of the property on which the hazard exists of
the following:
      (1)   Location of the hazard;
      (2)   Nature of the hazard observed;
      (3)   Date of the hazard observed;
      (4)   Applicable section of the chapter; and
      (5)   Requirements of the chapter.
      Such notification will be made by certified mail, with return receipt
requested.
   (I)   HRW shall be notified by the consumer when the nature of use of the
property changes so as to change the hazard classification of that property, as
set forth in this chapter.
   (J)   The consumer at each property at which containment and/or confinement
device(s) have been installed shall have each containment or confinement device
(s) tested on an annual basis, and perform any routine maintenance to such
device as recommended by the manufacturer, and provide the department with a
report of that inspection and work. The consumer shall cause such maintenance
or repairs to be made, rendering the device fully operational. Failure of the
consumer to perform that testing and maintenance shall cause for the premises
to be deemed an immediate public health hazard. HRW may immediately thereafter
discontinue public water supply service to that premises and service shall not
be restored until such devices have been rendered fully operational. Where the
use of water is critical to the continuance of normal operations or protection
of life, property, and equipment, duplicate containment or confinement devices
shall be provided by the property owner to avoid the necessity of discontinuing
water service to test or repair the device(s).
   (K)   Consumer responsibilities under this section include the following:
      (1)   The consumer shall, as required in this chapter and upon
notification, install the hazard containment device(s) as required within 90
days of the date of notification.
      (2)   If, after expiration of 90 days, the containment device(s) has not
been installed in conformance with the standards set forth in this chapter and
by the department, in proper working condition, the department may discontinue
the public water supply at that premises, and service shall not be restored
until such devices have been installed. The department may permit an extension
of up to 90 additional days if compliance efforts are underway and the
existence of hardship can be determined.
      (3)   HRW shall bear no liability for direct or consequential damages
caused by the discontinuance of service pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.23 WHEN WATER METERS READ.
   All water meters on water systems controlled by HRW shall be read monthly
unless unforeseen circumstances dictate otherwise.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020)
§ 51.24 ADJUSTMENT OF OVERCHARGES.
   HRW shall have the authority to adjust one water and/or sewer monthly bill
per 12 months after determining that the bill is excessive, upon the following
conditions:
   (A)   If the cause is a defect in a water meter, the water bill shall be
reduced to the average amount of such bill for the preceding three months.
   (B)   When proof of repair is furnished to substantiate a leak, the water
bill shall be reduced by 50% of the amount by which it exceeds the average
amount of the consumer's bill for the preceding three months. The average is
then added back in to determine the final amount. Leak adjustments for sewer
accounts are determined by reducing the sewer bill to the preceding three month
average.
   (C)   If the cause is of an undetermined origin, and it does not appear upon
investigation that the occupant or occupants of the premises served were in any
way at fault for the excessive water bill, the adjusted bill shall be
calculated the same as in division (B) of this section.
   (D)   All metered water lost due to negligence on the part of the user will
be charged at the normal rate, and no adjustment of the bill shall be made.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020)
§ 51.25 METER TESTS.
   Any consumer may have a test of his water meter made upon payment in advance
of a fee of actual cost of the test for any size meter. A deposit for the
estimated cost of the test is required before such test is conducted. If the
consumption shown on the meter in question is greater than twice the average
consumption for the preceding six months, the fee for testing the meter shall
be waived. Since the most accurate water meters suitable for general use
require a margin of approximately 2.5% for error, any meter which shows upon
test an error not greater than 2.5% shall not be considered defective. If the
meter is found to be over-registering in excess of 2.5%, refund shall be made
in accordance with §
51.24(A), and the deposit paid for the test shall be refunded.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord. passed 11-
16-2020)
§ 51.26 BULK WATER USAGE.
   HRW allows consumers or commercial establishments to use bulk water from
public fire hydrants through the use of portable hydrant meters after an
application has been made and deposit has been paid. The actual deposit shall
be determined by HRW according to the size of the hydrant meter and is
refundable upon the satisfactory return of the meter. Failure to return the
meter in a timely fashion will result in the customer being charged for the
full prevailing cost of the hydrant meter. A chain of custody form will be used
to annotate the serial number of the hydrant meter, the customer name and
relevant billing information, and the signature of the customer requesting the
meter. A daily, monthly, or yearly rental rate will be billed to the customer
according to the desired usage. Any customer requesting to keep the meter for a
year will be required to pay that rental rate at the time of meter issuance or
the beginning of each new yearly billing period. The water user also agrees to
pay for water obtained at the rate of $6 per 1,000 gallons. The applicant shall
be responsible for any damage to the hydrant, meter, backflow, connections, and
the like, used in the installation, and the cost of any such damage shall be
taken from the deposit. After deducting the water bill, appropriate rental
rate, and any cost of damage to the installation, HRW shall refund the balance
of the deposit to the applicant as soon as the meter is removed and returned to
the HRW's stock. While in use, no wrench shall be used on the hydrant except a
hydrant wrench furnished by HRW. If scarred by unauthorized methods, the cost
of nut and labor to repair shall be charged to the person responsible. Should
the water bill, rental rate, and cost of damage exceed the deposit, the user
shall pay the amount of such excess to HRW.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020)
§ 51.27 TAMPERING WITH METERS AND STOPCOCKS.
   No person, except an employee of HRW, shall turn the stopcock installed in
each meter box nor shall any person construct or have constructed any bypass
around any meter except as may be installed and sealed by HRW. The fact that
water is cut on to any premises by a person without the prior knowledge of
either HRW or the consumer shall not relieve the consumer of liability for such
unauthorized use of water. A minimum fee of $100 shall be imposed upon the
consumer where such tampering or unauthorized use of water has occurred.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.28 NO GUARANTEE OF QUALITY, QUANTITY, OR PRESSURE OF WATER SUPPLY.
   Neither the district nor HRW guarantees the quality, quantity, or pressure
of its water supply. It is hereby made a portion of the terms on which HRW and
the district furnish water to consumers that HRW and the district shall in no
case be liable to any consumer for any defect on quality or any deficiency in
quantity or pressure; that HRW and the district shall not be liable to any
consumer for damages resulting from turning on or the complete or partial
cutting off of water; and no deduction shall be made from any water bill by
reason of any such defect or deficiency. No HRW employee shall take
responsibility for telling a property owner or occupant how best to care for
his boiler, heater, or other equipment which is affected by the discontinuance,
either temporary or permanent, of his water supply. The owner or occupant shall
be entirely responsible for his equipment and shall hold HRW and the district
in no way responsible for damage thereof.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020)
§ 51.29 PROTECTION OF WATER SUPPLY.
   No person shall contaminate any portion of HRW or of the districts' water
supply whether the same is in a reservoir, or tank, or pipe.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.30 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Service will be supplied only to those who apply.
   (B)   Users will make application for service, in person or online, at HRW,
and at the same time make the deposit guarantee required below. A $15 account
set-up fee and/or transfer fee of the same amount is due upon initial account
set up or subsequent transfer of a consumer's water service to another address.
   (C)   The amount of deposit shall be determined by entering all responsible
consumer information into an online utility database. If the consumer or
consumers have a history of outstanding debt to other utilities, a copy of the
amount of debt and the utility to which it is owed shall be provided to the
consumer at the time of application. A credit score is determined by this
procedure.
   (D)   Property owners, if approved by the procedure described in division
(C) above shall not be required to make a deposit. If the property owner is not
approved by the above described procedure, they will be charged a minimum
deposit of $50. This deposit will be refunded after one year of no penalties
such as delinquent or reconnection fees. All other consumers, if approved by
the procedure described above, shall make a minimum cash deposit of $50 per
service requested. All other consumers with a delinquent credit history will be
charged a minimum deposit of $100 per service requested. Deposits shall not
accrue interest. All consumers who qualify as commercial users under the
current rate structure shall be exempt from this deposit requirement.
   (E)   All property owners with no established accounts, must provide HRW
with a deed or purchase agreement for the property where water and/or sewer
service will be provided. All other users must provide HRW with a copy of a
rental or lease agreement for the property where water and/or sewer service
will be provided. All consumers identified as financially responsible parties
on the rental or lease agreement shall be listed as responsible parties on the
account as setup by HRW.
   (F)   HRW may reject any application for service not available under a
standard rate or which involves excessive service cost, or which may affect the
supply of service to other customers or for other good and sufficient reasons.
   (G)   HRW may reject any application for service when the applicant is
delinquent in payment of any bills incurred for service or connection fees
previously supplied at any location, provided that when the owner of the
premises has been served water and has not paid for the same, HRW shall not be
required to render service to anyone at said location where the water was used
until said water bill has been paid.
   (H)   The person or persons whose name the account is under shall be
responsible for payment of all bills incurred in connection with the service
furnished.
   (I)   A separate deposit is required for each meter and/or service
connection requested.
   (J)   The deposit receipt is not negotiable and can be redeemed only at HRW.
   (K)   The deposit required by this chapter or part remaining thereof will be
refunded upon payment of final bill and final accounting except in instances
described in division (D) above in which it may be refunded earlier.
   (L)   Final bills are prorated based upon the number of days service is
provided.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020)
§ 51.31 INITIAL OR MINIMUM CHARGE.
   (A)   The initial or minimum charge, as provided in the rate schedule, shall
be made for each service installed, regardless of location.
   (B)   In resort or seasonal areas where service is furnished to a consumer
during certain months only, the minimum charge per service for the period of
non-use shall be the regular minimum as set out in the published rates of HRW.
   (C)   Water furnished for a given lot shall be used on that lot only. Each
consumer's service must be separately metered at a single delivery and metering
point. Each commercial unit and each storeroom or stall used for business
purposes shall have a separate meter. All commercial use including storerooms
and stalls for business purposes shall be metered separately from any
residential use and vice versa, whether now in service or to be installed in
the future.
   (D)   Consumers shall be responsible for paying the minimum monthly water
bill whether or not water is actually used during a month.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020)
§ 51.32 HRW’S RESPONSIBILITY AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   HRW shall run a service line from its distribution line to the
property line where the distribution line runs immediately adjacent and
parallel to the property to be served, and for which a tap-on fee, and system
development fee(s) then in effect, will be charged. The tap-on fee is subject
to deviate from the set rate due to cost of the service installation.
   (B)   HRW may install a meter at the property line or, at HRW's option, on
the consumer's property or in a location mutually agreed upon.
   (C)   When two or more meters are to be installed on the same premises for
different consumers, they shall be closely grouped and each clearly designated
to which consumer it applies.
   (D)   HRW does not assume the responsibility of inspecting the consumer's
piping or apparatus and will not be responsible therefor.
   (E)   HRW reserves the right to refuse service unless the consumer's lines
or piping are installed in such manner as to prevent cross-connections or
backflow.
   (F)   HRW shall not be liable for damage of any kind whatsoever resulting
from water or the use of water on the consumer's premises, unless such damage
results directly from negligence on the part of HRW. HRW shall not be
responsible for any damage done by or resulting from any defect in the piping,
fixtures, or appliances on the consumer's premises. HRW shall not be
responsible for negligence of third persons or forces beyond the control of HRW
resulting in any interruption of service.
   (G)   Under normal conditions, the consumer will be notified of any
anticipated interruption of service.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020)
§ 51.33 CONSUMER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Piping on the consumer's premises must be so arranged that the
connections are conveniently located with respect to HRW's lines or mains.
   (B)   If the consumer's piping on the consumer's premises is so arranged
that HRW is called upon to provide additional meters, each place of metering
will be considered as a separate and individual account.
   (C)   Where meter is placed on premises of a consumer, a suitable place
shall be provided by consumer for placing such meter, unobstructed and
accessible at all times to the meter reader.
   (D)   The consumer shall furnish and maintain the service line on the
consumer's side of the meter; HRW to provide a like service on HRW's side of
such meter.
   (E)   The consumer's piping and apparatus shall be installed and maintained
by the consumer at the consumer's expense in a safe and efficient manner and in
accordance with HRW's rules, regulations, specifications, and ordinances and in
full compliance with the sanitary regulations of the North Carolina State Board
of Health.
   (F)   The consumer shall guarantee proper protection for all property
controlled by HRW and placed on the consumer's premises by HRW or any
predecessor in interest to HRW and shall permit access to it only by authorized
representatives of HRW.
   (G)   In the event that any loss or damage to such property or any accident
or injury to persons or property is caused by or results from the negligence or
wrongful act of the consumer, his agents, or employees, the cost of the
necessary repairs or replacements shall be paid by the consumer to HRW and any
liability otherwise resulting shall be assumed by the consumer.
   (H)   The amount of such loss or damage or the cost of repairs shall be
added to the consumer's bill; and if not paid, service may be discontinued by
HRW.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.34 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   HRW personnel shall have access at all reasonable hours to the premises of
the consumer for the purpose of installing or removing property controlled by
HRW, inspecting piping, reading or testing meters, or for any other purpose in
connection with HRW's service and facilities.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.35 CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Not less than three days notice must be given, in person or in
writing, to discontinue service for a change in occupancy. Such notice shall be
given at the HRW office which has responsibility for management of water and
sewer systems.
   (B)   The outgoing party shall be responsible for all water consumed up to
the time of departure, or the time specified for departure, whichever period is
longest.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.36 SUSPENSION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Services may be discontinued at the request of the consumer, provided
the consumer pays all current balances. When services are discontinued and all
bills paid, the deposit will be refunded in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   Services may also be discontinued by HRW to any customer whose account
remains delinquent for more than ten days. The deposit will be applied by HRW
toward settlement of the account. Any balance will be refunded to the consumer;
but if the deposit is not sufficient to cover the bill, HRW may proceed to
collect the balance in the usual way provided by law for the collection of
debts.
   (C)   Property owners may have a service discontinued for rental property in
the event that the rental unit is vacant for a period not to exceed 12 months.
If the rental property is still vacant after 12 months from the original
suspension date, the property owner will begin to receive minimum bills for
that location to include the account setup of $15.
   (D)   Service discontinued for non-payment of bills will be restored, at the
request of the consumer, only after bills are paid in full, and a service
charge of $40 paid for each meter reconnected except as set forth hereafter.
The consumer being reconnected must also make the required deposit. The
consumer may elect to pay an additional service fee of $50 to expedite the
reconnection process. The payment of this fee will guarantee the
reestablishment of water service to the consumer on the same day the account is
paid in full.
   (E)   After a connection has been discontinued for a period of 12
consecutive months HRW may remove the meter base, meter, curb stop valve, meter
box and service line for use elsewhere or for storage.
   (F)   At any time after a connection has been discontinued an additional
service charge equal to the then current tap-on-fee shall be paid as a
reconnection fee. Also the consumer must make the required deposit.
   (G)   HRW reserves the right to discontinue its service without notice for
the following additional reasons:
      (1)   To prevent fraud or abuse;
      (2)   Consumers willful disregard for HRW's rules and ordinances;
      (3)   Emergency repairs;
      (4)   Insufficiency of supply due to circumstances beyond HRW's control;
      (5)   Legal processes;
      (6)   Direction of public authorities; and/or
      (7)   Strike, riot, fire, flood, accident, or any unavoidable cause.
   (H)   HRW may, in addition to prosecution by law, permanently refuse service
to any consumer who tampers with a meter or other measuring device.
   (I)   HRW gave a privilege for early connection to the water system to every
property owner or resident as the water mains were installed. From time to
time, HRW may give privileges for connections at reduced amounts in order to
encourage additional hookups to increase revenue. Any consumer who takes
advantage of a reduced connection will be responsible for paying at least the
minimum monthly water bill whether or not water is actually used until such
time as the reduced connection fee charged plus all monthly water bills charged
equal the then current charge for tap-on connection. The consumer shall remain
liable for at least the minimum monthly bill thereafter until he has notified
HRW in accordance with other provisions of this chapter that he desires to stop
his service.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020)
§ 51.37 COMPLAINTS; ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   If the consumer believes his bill to be in error, he shall present his
claim, in person, at HRW before the bill becomes delinquent. Such claim, if
made after the bill has become delinquent, shall not be effective in preventing
discontinuance of service as heretofore provided. The consumer may pay such
bill under protest, and said payment shall not prejudice his claim.
   (B)   HRW will make special meter readings at the request of the consumer
for a fee of $25; provided, however, that if such special reading discloses
that the meter was over read, or in error in any way, the fee will be refunded.
   (C)   Meters will be tested at the request of the consumer upon payment to
HRW of the actual cost to HRW of making the test provided, however, if the
meter is found to over register or under register beyond 2.5% of the correct
volume, no charge will be made.
   (D)   If the seal of the meter is broken by other than HRW's representative,
or if the meter fails to register correctly, or is stopped for any cause, the
consumer shall pay an amount estimated from the record of his previous bills
and/or from other proper data.
   (E)   No modification of rates or any of the stipulations in this chapter
shall be made by any employee of HRW.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020)
§ 51.38 CLASSIFICATIONS, RATES, FEES, AND CHARGES.
   The following classifications, rates, fees, and charges are adopted.
   (A)   Classification of service. All services are classified under three
categories to include residential, commercial, or bulk municipal users. A
residential service is a service requiring a meter size up to and including one
inch. A commercial service is a service requiring a meter size greater than one
inch up to and including two inches. A bulk municipal service is a service
requiring a meter size greater than two inches, where the user is a
municipality and/or other public body.
   (B)   Rate schedule.
      (1)   Residential:
 
Water Schedule                           Monthly
Flat rate, first 2,000 gallons (minimum) $20
All water used over 2,000 gallons        $5.50 per 1,000 gallons
 
 
Sewer Schedule                            Monthly
Flat rate, no gallons                     $15
Commodity charge                          $6 per 1,000 gallons
Flat sewer rate, one-person household     $40
Flat sewer rate, two or more in household $45
 
      (2)   Commercial:
 
Water Schedule                           Monthly
Flat rate, first 2,000 gallons (minimum) $27
All water used over 2,000 gallons        $5.50 per 1,000 gallons
 
 
Sewer Schedule                             Monthly
Flat rate, no gallons                      $40
Commodity charge                           $6 per 1,000 gallons
Flat sewer rate, institutional, no gallons $250 minimum
Commodity charge                           $6 per 1,000 gallons
 
      (3)   Bulk municipal:
         (a)   Water. $2.60 for each 1,000 gallons used. Where bulk municipal
connections exist, HRW may require that the water purchaser guarantee a minimum
usage allocation and payment for the same, whether used or not.
         (b)   Water - capacity owners. $2.05 for each 1,000 gallons used. Bulk
municipal rates may differ depending upon the purchase of capacity in county
owned production facilities and/or other extenuating circumstances deemed by
HRW.
         (c)   Water- Woodlake. $2.77 for each 1,000 gallons used.
         (d)   Sewer. $2.30 for each 1,000 gallons treated.
         (e)   Energy charges. 
            1.   $0.25 for each 1,000 gallons of water used.
            2.   Note: Energy charges may differ depending upon the number of
pumps required for delivery.
   (C)   Tap-on fees.
      (1)   Water services:
 
Water Services
2-inch connection   $2,500
1-inch connection   $1,500
3/4-inch connection $800
3/4-inch connection $200 for new District or HRW-funded extension
 
      (2)   Sewer services:
 
Sewer Services
4-inch gravity connection $1,000
6-inch gravity connection $1,500
8-inch gravity connection $2,500
Step tank                 $2,000
Larger connections and/or road bores, including those for bulk municipal
connections, shall be negotiated as may be appropriate.
 
   (D)   Hydrant meter charges.
      Services            Charges
      3/4 inch hydrant meter      $250 refundable deposit
                     $5/day or $140/month rental rate
                     $1,200/yearly rate (must be paid up front)
                     $6/1,000 gallons
      3 inch hydrant meter      $500 refundable deposit
                     $10/day or $280/month rental rate
                     $2,500/yearly rental rate (must be paid up front)
                     $6/1,000 gallons
   (E)   Septage hauler waste fee.
 
Services                Charges
Basic facilities charge $20 per truckload
Usage charge            $85 per 1,000 gallons
This service is available only to those applicants having obtained prior
written approval from the HRW Wastewater Division. Waste from septic tanks and
portable toilets shall be accepted if it fully conforms with Chapter 52 of
this code.
 
   (F)   Rates for persons living outside the district. Rates for persons
living outside of Harnett County and served by HRW water lines owned or
operated by HRW or a district shall be equal to rates for persons living inside
Harnett County so long as no tax is levied within Harnett County for support of
the system; if a tax is levied on users inside Harnett County for the purpose
of supporting the water system, then the users outside Harnett County shall pay
an increased rate.
   (G)   Water and sewer system development fees. 
      (1)   System development fees are a charge or assessment for service
imposed with respect to new development to fund costs of capital improvements
necessitated by and attributable to such new development, to recoup costs of
existing facilities which serve such new development, or a combination of those
costs. The term includes amortized charges, lump-sum charges, and any other fee
that functions as described by this definition regardless of terminology.
      (2)   These charges are reasonable and necessary and result in a more
equitable and economically efficient method of recovery of such costs to handle
new growth and to serve new customers without placing an additional financial
burden on existing customers solely through inordinate enhancement of water and
sewer rates. A water system development fee of $2,000 and a sewer system
development fee of $2,500 per connection, lot, and/or unit will be charged for
all new water and/or sewer services connecting to any water supply or
distribution system and/or sewer collection system owned and/or operated by
HRW. Determination of water and sewer system fees were accomplished per a
system development fee analysis that met the requirements of G.S. § 162A-205
and is posted on HRW's website for review. New commercial/industrial system
development fees will be accomplished through the method of equivalent
residential unit using the estimated water and sewer usage needed for the
development. These system development fees shall be paid to HRW per G.S. §
162A-213 in the manner set forth below: The system development fee for new land
subdivision development shall be payable at the time of application for a
building permit. In instances of any other new development to include
commercial/industrial developments, the full balance of these fees shall be due
at the time of application for connection of the individual unit of development
or when HRW commits to provide water and/or sewer service to the development,
whichever occurs sooner.
      (3)   In instances where separate agreements are established for land
subdivisions that exceed 200 lots, as described in §
51.55(B), these fees will be paid at the time of execution of the agreement and
held in escrow until such time as the balance of said fees are drawn down when
individual building permits are issued within the development. The fees held in
escrow will always be drawn down prior to any individual payments for lots at
the time of application for a building permit. If the rate of said fees
established by the Harnett County Board of Commissioners increase or decrease
while still in escrow then any material difference must be paid or likewise
credited to the escrow when the building permit is issued. If for any reason
HRW rescinds the capacity allocation, as described in § 51.55(B) then all
remaining fees for lots without building permits issued still held in escrow
will be refunded to the payee.
   (H)   Plan review fees. Plan review fees for extensions of HRW's water and
sewer systems shall consist of a $250 preliminary plan review for all projects
and a $40 per lot and/or residential equivalent unit for all types of
development. These fees cover plan review, on-site inspections, and one-year
warranty inspections.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020; Ord. 2021-9, passed 10-26-2021)
§ 51.39 CONNECTION TO EXISTING SYSTEMS.
   In the event that HRW desires to connect its water distribution system to
previously existing systems, all such systems must have the approval of the
Division of Health Services, of the North Carolina Department of Human
Resources before such connection may take place and all previously existing
sources of water must be completely abandoned and rendered incapable of future
water production.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020; Ord. 2021-9, passed 10-26-2021)
§ 51.40 SPRINKLER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Application for full service and retrofitted sprinkler connections
shall be made in person at HRW. Forms to be used in application processing
shall be administratively prepared and matters otherwise associated with
service application shall be processed pursuant to, and in accordance with, the
rules, regulations, policies, and/or procedures applicable to the service
district within which the premises to be served is located.
   (B)   The same schedule of connection or tap-on fees applicable in the
service district within which the premises to be served is located shall apply
with respect to full service sprinkler connections.
   (C)   The following schedule of connection or tap-on fees shall apply in all
service districts to the retrofitted sprinkler connection:
 
Connection            Fee
2-inch connection     $1,600
1-1/2-inch connection $700
1-inch connection     $450
3/4-inch connection   $300
 
   (D)   The same schedule of rates, including the monthly minimum charge,
applicable in the service district within which the premises to be served is
located shall apply with respect to full service sprinkler connections. No
sewer charges shall be made to the consumer based upon the water consumption of
the full service sprinkler connection.
   (E)   The same schedule of rates applicable in the service district within
which the premises to be served is located shall apply with respect to
retrofitted sprinkler connections. No monthly minimum charge will be made
except during those months when the connection has been used. No sewer charges
shall be made to the consumer based upon the water consumption of the
retrofitted sprinkler connection.
   (F)   Except as specifically provided in this section, all of the other
rules, regulations, policies, and/or procedures applicable to the service
district within which the premises to be served is located shall be applicable
with respect to full service and retrofitted sprinkler connections.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020)
§ 51.41 PROVISION FOR CUT-OFF VALVE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to connect to a water supply and distribution
system owned and/or operated by HRW shall be required to install a cut-off
valve of a minimum size of 3/4 of an inch onto the service line running from
the meter box to the consumer's premises. This cut-off valve shall be located
within 12 inches of the connection of the customer's service line to the meter
box. A diagram showing a typical installation of such cut-off valve is attached
to the Ordinance passed 11-16-2020, and made part of this section by reference.
   (B)   This section shall be enforceable in addition to the minimum
requirements of the North Carolina State Building Code regarding plumbing and
placement of cut-off valves.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020)
EXTENSIONS
§ 51.55 WATER AND SEWER EXTENSIONS IN NEW DEVELOPMENTS.
   The basic conditions under which water and sewer extensions are required in
HRW's jurisdiction are described in §
153.155 of this code. HRW reserves the right to provide or not provide water
and sewer extensions depending upon the availability of water and sewer
capacity. The responsibility for extending water and sewer mains to and within
new subdivisions or within other new developments lies with the subdivider or
developer, although HRW may in its discretion contract with the subdivider or
developer to install such water or sewer lines with HRW personnel.
   (A)   Water and sewer plan requirements. If a water distribution or sewer
collection system is to be installed in a subdivision in HRW's jurisdiction,
and the system is to be assumed and maintained by HRW immediately upon
completion of installation, a complete set of construction plans must be
provided for the proposed system. The plans shall be prepared by a North
Carolina Licensed Professional Engineer serving as the engineer of record for
the development and shall have their seal and signature with the date on each
plan. Water and sewer plans shall include a determination of the estimated
water and sewer capacity needed to serve the development based on NCDEQ design
standards and shall consist of an overall composite plan, large scale
individual plans with profiles as needed, detail sheets, grading plans, erosion
control plans, specifications, and calculations. Plans must also be submitted
in electronic formats to include Computer Aided Design (CAD) and/or Portable
Document Format (PDF). Plans will provide for the construction of water
infrastructure from the point of connection with existing HRW water mains to
the meter boxes of the properties to be served, and for sewer infrastructure
from the sewer clean out to the connection with existing HRW sewer mains. The
plans must conform to HRW specifications, North Carolina Administrative Code
Title 15A Subchapter 2T, Waste Not Discharged to Surface Waters, and to Title
15A Subchapter 18C, Rules Governing Public Water Systems. The engineer shall
provide sealed as-built plans and location maps for all valves and hydrant
locations upon construction completion.
   (B)   Capacity allocation determination. HRW reserves the right to impose
minimum and/or maximum lot counts for each proposed phase within a new land
subdivision development to help adequately determine future water and/or sewer
capacity allocations and to prohibit excessive review and administrative
overhead. Minimum lot counts will be determined on a case by case basis
depending upon the development. Land subdivision developments are limited to a
maximum of 200 lots or residential equivalent lots. Land subdivision
developments that consist of lots greater than 200 can request an additional
water and/or sewer capacity allocation of up to 200 lots for a maximum of 400
lots per development. This request requires a separate agreement with different
requirements for payment of water and sewer system development fees as outlined
in §
51.38(G)(3). All water and/or sewer improvements within approved phases must be
constructed and lots within approved phases must be recorded within two years
of receipt of the authorization to construct permit from HRW/NCDEQ. If a
minimum of 50% of its planned building permits are not issued within four years
from the receipt of the authorization to construct permit from HRW/NCDEQ, HRW
reserves the right to rescind the unused amount of capacity for future use and
begin the review process again in earnest to include updated plans and
construction drawings from the engineer of record for the development.
Supplementary phase construction requests of a maximum of 200 lots of the same
land subdivision development will be reviewed but not permitted for
construction until the above described conditions are met.
   (C)   Shop drawing review. The developer's engineer of record will review
all shop drawings for conformance with HRW specifications prior to submittal to
HRW. The shop drawing submittal to HRW shall include a cover letter by the
developer's engineer of record certifying conformance with HRW specifications
and summarizing any exceptions or concerns relative to approved drawings and/or
HRW standards.
   (D)   Conformance, and inspection/oversight. Improvements shall be installed
in accordance with the established specifications, and other applicable
policies of HRW. Contractor shall conform to all applicable local, state, and
federal regulations. No field changes to the plans are allowed without prior
written approval from HRW. The developer shall, at his expense, retain the
services of the engineer of record for the purposes of providing necessary
inspections and supervision of the construction work, record drawings, and
engineer certifications. The engineer is responsible to insure that
construction is, at all times, in compliance with accepted sanitary engineering
practices and the approved plans and specifications. A copy of each engineer's
field report is to be submitted to HRW as each such inspection is made. Water
and sewer infrastructure must pass all tests as required by HRW specifications
and those of all applicable regulatory agencies. These tests include, but are
not limited to, air test, vacuum test, mandrel test, visual test, pressure
test, bacteriological test, and the like. A HRW inspector must be present
during testing. All test results must be submitted to HRW. All tests must be
satisfied prior to final inspection. Following completion of construction of
all water and sewer infrastructure delineated in the approved water and sewer
plans, a final inspection must be requested in writing by the developer or
developer's engineer. The developer's engineer and HRW inspector shall prepare
a written punch list of any defects or deficiencies noted during this
inspection, should any exist. Upon completion of the punch list, the
developer's engineer will schedule another inspection. In the event the number
of inspections performed by HRW exceeds two, additional fees may be assessed to
the developer.
   (E)   Off-site and over-sizing of infrastructure. For developments that are
not adjacent to water and sewer infrastructure of sufficient size and capacity
to meet the needs of the proposed development, the developer shall be
responsible at their sole expense for the design and construction of any and
all improvements to the HRW system deemed necessary to meet the service
requirements of the development. The developer shall incorporate the off-site
improvements in the water and sewer plans submitted for the proposed
development. These improvements shall be consistent with the HRW Utility Master
Plans and conform to the requirements of this policy. The developer may be
required as a condition of approval of this development to install either on-
site or off-site improvements of a greater capacity than required to serve
their development in order for HRW to serve future developments or to meet
other service needs of HRW. If this is the case, HRW shall reimburse the
developer for any additional costs incurred as a result of installing such
oversized lines. Under no circumstances will HRW reimburse the developer for
any additional costs associated with the installation of mains equal to or less
than eight inches in diameter for water and 12 inches in diameter for sewer as
these sizes would be below or equal to the standard size mains utilized by the
HRW.
   (F)   Easements for future water and sewer lines. The developer shall secure
the services of a professional engineer to design the system in accordance with
HRW specifications. HRW desires to develop its water and sewer infrastructure
in an orderly manner that minimizes energy consumption and makes the most
efficient use of existing and proposed infrastructure. To accomplish this, the
developer may be required as a condition of approval of their development to
dedicate easements with the boundaries of the development to HRW for placement
of future water and sewer infrastructure. The developer shall incorporate the
requested easements in the water and sewer plans submitted for the proposed
development. Water and/or wastewater infrastructure proposed for acceptance and
ownership by HRW must be in a dedicated utility right-of-way/easements or
public right-of-way/easements. The cost associated with the acquisition of any
easement or right-of-way contract for extensions of water and/or sewer mains
over privately owned lands will be solely borne by the developer. HRW also
prefers that the developer acquire these rights-of-way privately if at all
possible. Further explanation of HRW's participation in easement acquisition
for private development is explained in §
51.56 of this chapter.
   (G)   Transfer of title. The developer shall transfer to HRW title to all
water distribution and sewage collection systems installed by developer's
contractor. Such conveyance is to take effect without further action upon the
acceptance of HRW of said installation. As further evidence of said transfer of
title, upon completion of the said installation and prior to the rendering of
service by HRW, the developer shall, without cost to HRW:
      (1)   Convey at no cost to HRW, its successors or assigns by good and
sufficient easement deed or dedication in right-of-way in a form satisfactory
to HRW a perpetual right, easement, and privilege to operate, maintain, and
repair or replace all water and wastewater mains, pipes, connections, pumps,
and meters within granted easements upon developer's property in connection
with supplying water and wastewater service to the inhabitants, occupants, and
customers in developer's property and secure from each mortgagee and lien or a
release of mortgages' and lienors' interest in the easement and fixtures
thereon for so long as the easement is used for the operation, maintenance,
repair, or replacement of water and wastewater mains, pipes, connections,
pumps, and meters within the easements.
      (2)   Transfer at no cost to HRW all developer's right, title and
interest in and to all of the water and wastewater supply lines, mains,
connections pipes, valves, meters and equipment installed up to and within
granted easements and right-of-way for the purpose of supplying water service
and wastewater collection for the inhabitants, occupants, and customers in
developer's property.
      (3)   Furnish HRW with an affidavit that all persons, firms, or
corporations who furnished labor or materials used directly or indirectly in
the prosecution of the work required to be performed by the agreement have been
paid. Said affidavit shall be written in such a form as approved and accepted
by HRW.
      (4)   Furnish HRW with a release of lien from all contractors and
suppliers of materials and/or labor who might have acquired interest into the
installations by the supply of materials and/or labor otherwise.
      (5)   Furnish HRW with all manufacturers' warranties which developer
might have received or is due to receive on any part of the installations.
      (6)   Pay to HRW any and all applicable charges which shall be due and
payable prior to connection to HRW water and/or wastewater system.
      (7)   Furnish HRW with a satisfactory warranty on guaranteeing all
equipment and infrastructure installed pursuant to this agreement against
defect in materials, and equipment of construction for a period of not less
than one year from date of acceptance of same by HRW. Said warranty shall be in
such a form as approved and accepted by HRW.
   (H)   Metering requirements. Each individual apartment, residence, unit or
business, must have individual meters with the exception of existing apartment
complexes, condominiums, shopping centers, mobile home parks, and residential
developments where lines do not meet HRW standards. These qualifications for
the use of master meters, rather than individual meters, are clearly defined in
§
51.19 of this code.
      (1)   Meters meeting HRW specification and of appropriate size for
desired application shall be furnished to the HRW at the expense of the
developer and shall become the property of HRW.
      (2)   Each occupancy or property owner must post a security deposit and
setup fee, as listed in §
51.30 of this code, prior to activation of the service.
      (3)   All water lines and meter services must be in a right-of-way with a
minimum width of 20 feet and dedicated to HRW for the operation and maintenance
of said water lines and meter services.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020; Ord. 2021-9, passed 10-26-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.56 ACQUISITION OF EASEMENTS FOR DEVELOPERS IN COUNTY PARTICIPATION
PROJECTS.
   (A)   Should a developer encounter problems acquiring utility right-of-way
across private property for a project, he may request a meeting with the HRW
Director, or his designee, to discuss gaining assistance from HRW. For
eligibility of participation by HRW, the subject water or sewer line must serve
a public purpose or benefit as defined in HRW's case as providing a minimum
value, for residential developments, of $350,000 tax base per lot and a minimum
number of 50 lots. The Director will review and make a determination as to
possible eligibility for participation. If the Director determines there is a
valid basis for participation, the process will be explained to the developer.
Agreement to participate by the developer will result in a letter of
recommendation to the Legal Services Department and the County Manager. If the
Legal Services Department agrees that participation is warranted then they
shall notify the developer in writing and then in conjunction with HRW meet
with the developer to review his obligations. All property maps and
descriptions will need to be approved by HRW and need to comply with these
standards and procedures.
      (1)   One copy of blueprint of each map with a copy of the descriptions
of the taking shall be submitted by the developer's engineering firm/surveyor
for review. The map and descriptions need to be sealed by a professional
surveyor.
      (2)   Legal will contact the developer's engineering firm/surveyor after
review is completed so that review comments can be addressed.
      (3)   The developer's engineering firm/surveyor will have to re-submit a
copy of blueprint of the corrected plans and a copy of the corrected
descriptions, together with all the copies marked with corrections requests.
      (4)   When Legal is satisfied that all changes have been made, the
developer's engineering firm/surveyor will be contacted and asked of submission
of the following items:
         (a)   The original mylar of the plans, signed, sealed, and dated by a
professional surveyor.
         (b)   A copy of the legal description, signed, sealed, and dated by a
professional surveyor.
         (c)   A DXF or DWG drawing file submitted on a flash drive or through
email, for all computer-generated with the drawings. This file should be on
project coordinated (specifically, NAD83 coordinates). Also an ASCII points
file, with the point number, coordinates, and descriptor of each point.
      (5)   The developer's attorney will need to prepare the required deeds
and contact the county's Legal Department for the approval of the deeds.
      (6)   The developer or his attorney will furnish the Legal Department
with a copy of the deeds after they have been recorded in the Office of the
Register of Deeds of Harnett County, NC.
      (7)   In lieu or preparing property maps, legal descriptions, deeds and
deeds of assignment, the developer may choose to have his surveyor prepare a
plat of recordation. The Legal Department will still review the plats. Once the
maps have been finalized they will need to be submitted to the Planning
Department for their review. The developer may then have the owners sign
dedications statements on the plat.
      (8)   In the event that the property owner denies the developer's
surveyor access to the property, the surveyor shall compile the maps needed for
the easements from publicly available sources and use these documents to
estimate the easement square footages required. The estimated value of the
easements, per square footage, based on the independent appraisal shall be
multiplied by the estimated required square footage of the easement as a basis
of offer. This offer may be considered as sufficient proof that a good-faith
effort was made. Final settlement value will be contingent upon a survey
meeting HRW's requirements as stated above.
      (9)   The developer shall send letters to the property owners requesting
permission of site access and HRW will initiate contact with the affected
property owners to alert them to the activity. Based on the approved drawings
and descriptions, the developer commissions an independent appraisal of the
properties. An offer shall be in writing to the property owner and sent via
certified mail, return receipt requested. Upon refusal of the offer, as
detailed above:
         (a)   HRW will schedule a meeting with the developer and the affected
property owner(s) to, discuss the situation, explain the necessity for the
project (for example, public good, public necessity, coordination with the
long-term infrastructure development of the County), and ascertain that an
offer has been made and effused.
         (b)   Furnish the Legal Department copies of correspondence as written
documentation.
         (c)   If condemnation proceedings are the only option left to obtain
the necessary easements, a Board of Commissioner agenda item from Harnett
Regional Water Director to the County Manager must be prepared and sent and
copied to the Legal Department.
         (d)   The Legal Department will notify the developer and the affected
property owners as to the date, which the Board of Commissioners will consider
the request.
         (e)   Board of Commissioners will decide as to whether or not to
direct Legal to initiate the condemnation process of the property in question.
Condemnation under this policy shall be subject to the Board of Commissioners
findings of public purpose, public necessity, and approval of exercise of
eminent domain.
         (f)   Upon the Board of Commissioners approval and prior to HRW staff
starting action, the developer is to deposit with HRW twice the amount of the
estimated cost of the right-of-way.
   (B)   The developer will have the right to have his attorney participate in
the process in conjunction with HRW attorneys. If the developer elects not to,
he shall furnish a waiver to HRW to that effect. Upon obtaining the right-of-
way, HRW shall refund to the developer all funds over and above those required
to obtain the right-of-way. In the event that condemnation becomes, and is
approved by County Commissioners, the developer shall write a letter to HRW
stating that he will be fully responsible for any and all cost and expenses
awarded by the court in the condemnation case. For county projects, that letter
will be written to the County Development Services Department. At the option of
HRW, the developer may be required to deposit additional funds up to five times
the amount of the estimated right-of-way value. HRW will retain these funds
until completion of the judgment, at which time any remaining monies will be
returned to the developer. The money on deposit with HRW will bear no interest.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020)
§ 51.57 EXTENSION OF WATER AND SEWER LINES WITHIN COUNTY.
   (A)   HRW currently extends service by three methods:
      (1)   Capital projects using loans and grants to fund;
      (2)   Private development within public rights-of-way or dedicated
rights-of-way funded by private funds; and
      (3)   Co-operative projects between HRW and private sector for commercial
and industrial development. The amount of HRW funds contributed to a co-
operative project is guaranteed to be repaid to HRW by the developer in net tax
proceeds from the improved property within the first five years. If the net tax
proceeds received within the five year period fail to equal HRW's fiscal
contribution to the project, the developer shall pay the difference to HRW.
   (B)   (1)   HRW proposes to designate, from the Harnett Regional Water Fund,
certain restricted annual appropriations for the development of water and sewer
line extensions within Harnett County. All requests for extensions shall be
rated on the following point system:
 
Public health severity                           40 points
Cost feasibility based upon return of investment 40 points
Contributed capital by individual or business    20 points
Points maximum                                   100 points
 
      (2)   The responsibility for rating each request will be with the
Director of Harnett Regional Water or the designee of the Director. A minimum
score of 50 points is required in order for the Harnett County Board of
Commissioners to consider the request.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020)
§ 51.58 EXTENSIONS OUTSIDE OF COUNTY.
   (A)   HRW has no responsibility to provide water or sewer service to
property located outside the county. However, upon request, HRW may extend its
water or sewer lines to serve properties outside the county when it determines
that it is in the county's best interest to do so.
   (B)   Any owner of property outside the county who seeks an extension of
HRW's water or sewer system to serve the property shall submit an application
for extension to HRW. The owner shall provide all information HRW deems
necessary to determine whether the requested extension is feasible and in the
county's best interest.
   (C)   The responsibility for, and the entire cost of, extending a water or
sewer line to serve property outside the county shall be borne by the property
owner requesting the extension.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020)
§ 51.59 EXTENSION MADE BY OTHER THAN HRW PERSONNEL.
   (A)   Extensions of HRW's water or sewer system installed by other than HRW
personnel, whether inside or outside the county, shall be installed by a
licensed utility contractor in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
as well as other HRW specifications and requirements. Among other matters, such
specifications shall govern the size of all lines, their locations, grades,
materials used, manner of installation and provision for future extensions.
   (B)   No construction or any addition to HRW's water or sewer system shall
commence until detailed plans have been reviewed and approved by the Director
of Harnett Regional Water or the designee of the Director. Such plans shall
include whatever information the administrator deems necessary to determine
whether the proposed extension complies with all applicable HRW specifications
and requirements.
   (C)   Water lines intended for addition to HRW owned water system will be
allowed to connect to the system if installed within the rights-of-way of a
dedicated street or if adequate permanent easements are provided. Sewer lines
shall also be installed within public street rights-of-way wherever practical,
but HRW may accept sewer lines constructed on private property (where the
topography makes this necessary) if adequate permanent easements are provided.
   (D)   To protect street surfaces, HRW shall require that whenever extensions
of water or sewer lines are made to properties or within new subdivisions,
laterals be extended to all properties expected to tap onto such water or sewer
lines.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020)
§ 51.60 OBSERVATION BY HRW OF WORK DONE BY OTHERS.
   (A)   All work on the extension of water or sewer lines not performed by HRW
forces (whether inside or outside the county), shall be subject to observation
by HRW. If, in the judgment of the Director of Harnett Regional Water, or the
Director's designee, there is a demonstrated lack of competent supervision by a
contractor, the administrator may at his option:
      (1)   Stop work until approved supervision is obtained and the work is
done in accordance with HRW specifications and requirements; or
      (2)   Provide observation by HRW personnel.
   (B)   Observation of a project by HRW does not consist of or imply
supervision. The person requesting the extension is solely responsible for
ensuring that the project is completed according to state approved plans and
HRW specifications.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020)
§ 51.61 DEDICATION OF WATER AND SEWER LINE EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   All water and sewer mains constructed and connected with the water
and/or sewer facilities of HRW pursuant to this section shall be conveyed to
and become the property of HRW upon completion and acceptance by HRW.
Connection to the system and acceptance by HRW shall constitute dedication of a
water or sewer main extension by the person responsible for the extension.
   (B)   Following dedication as provided in division (A), HRW shall have
exclusive control of all water or sewer lines and shall be responsible for
their maintenance, repair and operation. However, the conveyor of additions to
the system shall guarantee the entire project against defective material and
workmanship for a period of 12 months from the date of acceptance of the
project, including such incidental damages as may arise from such claims.
(Ord. passed 6-30-2015; Ord. passed 7-16-2018; Ord. passed 6-15-2020; Ord.
passed 11-16-2020)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER USE
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Purpose and policy
   
52.002   Definitions and abbreviations
   
52.003   Fees
   
52.004   Wastewater discharge permit application and issuance
   
52.005   Confidential information policy
   
52.006   Annual publication of significant noncompliance policy
   
52.007   Adjudicatory hearings
General Sewer Use Requirements
   
52.020   Prohibited discharge standards
   
52.021   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
52.022   Local limits
   
52.023   State requirements
   
52.024   Right of revision
   
52.025   Dilution
   
52.026   Pretreatment of wastewater
   
52.027   Accidental discharge/slug control plans
   
52.028   Hauled wastewater
   
52.029   Connections required
   
52.030   Affirmative defenses to discharge violations
Reporting Requirements
   
52.045   Baseline monitoring reports
   
52.046   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
52.047   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline
   
52.048   Periodic compliance reports
   
52.049   Reports of changed conditions
   
52.050   Reports of potential problems
   
52.051   Reports from unpermitted users
   
52.052   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting
   
52.053   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste
   
52.054   Analytical requirements
   
52.055   Sample collection
   
52.056   Timing
   
52.057   Record keeping
   
52.058   Electronic reporting
   
52.059   Special reporting requirements for IUs in satellite POTWs
Compliance Monitoring
   
52.070   Monitoring facilities
   
52.071   Inspection and sampling
   
52.072   Search warrants
Remedies
   
52.085   Administrative remedies
   
52.086   Other available remedies
   
52.087   Remedies nonexclusive
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the county
and enables the county to comply with all applicable state and federal laws,
including the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.) and the General
Pretreatment Regulations (40 C.F.R. part 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants and wastewater discharges
into the municipal wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of
the system or contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants and wastewater discharges
into the municipal wastewater system which will pass through the system,
inadequately treated, into any waters of the state or otherwise be incompatible
with the system;
      (3)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludges
from the municipal system;
      (4)   To protect both municipal personnel who may be affected by sewage,
sludge, and effluent in the course of their employment as well as protecting
the general public;
      (5)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of operation,
maintenance, and improvement of the municipal wastewater system; and
      (6)   To ensure that the municipality complies with its NPDES or non-
discharge permit conditions, sludge use, and disposal requirements and any
other federal or state laws to which the municipal wastewater system is
subject.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the municipal wastewater system, through the issuance of
permits to certain non-domestic users and through enforcement of general
requirements for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement
activities, requires user reporting and provides for the setting of fees for
the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program established
herein.
   (D)   This chapter shall apply to all users of the municipal wastewater
system, as authorized by G.S. §§ 160A-312 and/or 153A-275. The county shall
designate an administrator of the publicly owned treatment works or POTW and
pretreatment program hereafter referred to as the “POTW Director”. Except as
otherwise provided herein, the POTW Director shall administer, implement, and
enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted to or imposed upon
the POTW Director may be delegated by the POTW Director to other county
personnel. By discharging wastewater into the municipal wastewater system,
industrial users located outside the county limits agree to comply with the
terms and conditions established in this chapter, as welt as any permits,
enforcement actions, or orders issued hereunder.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011)
§ 52.002 DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
      APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Director of the Division of Water Quality of the
North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources or his or her
designee.
      AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE INDUSTRIAL USER. 
         (a)   If the industrial user is a corporation, AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE shall mean:
            1.   The president, secretary, or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision making functions for the corporation.
            2.   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operation facilities, provided, the manager is authorized to make management
decisions which govern the operation of the regulated facility including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct comprehensive measures to assure long-
term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather
complete and accurate information for control mechanism requirements; and where
authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in
accordance with corporate procedures.
         (b)   If the industrial user is a partnership or sole proprietorship,
an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall mean a general partner or the proprietor,
respectively.
         (c)   If the industrial user is a federal, state, or local government
facility, an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall mean a director or highest
official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of
the activities of the government facility, or his or her designee.
         (d)   The individuals described in divisions (a) through (c) above may
designate another AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to the county.
         (e)   If the designation of an authorized representative is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility, or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new authorization satisfying the requirements of
this section must be submitted to the POTW Director prior to or together with
any reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20°C usually expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/l).
      BUILDING SEWER. A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user
to the POTW.
      BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of a
user’s treatment facility.
      CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National categorical pretreatment standards or
pretreatment standard.
      CONTROL AUTHORITY. Refers to the POTW organization if the POTW
organization’s pretreatment program approval has not been withdrawn.
      ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or, where appropriate, the term may also be used as a designation for
the Administrator or other duly authorized official of said agency.
      GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time
basis without regard to the flow in the waste stream and over a period of time
not to exceed 15 minutes.
      HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks, including, but not
limited to, such holding tanks as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers,
septic tanks, and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
      INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction from
any nondomestic source regulated under § 307(b), (c), or (d) of the Act (33
U.S.C. § 1317) into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into the
system).
      INDUSTRIAL USER or USER. Any person which is a source of indirect
discharge.
      INTERFERENCE. The inhibition, or disruption of the POTW’s collection
system, treatment processes, operations, or its sludge process, use, or
disposal, which causes or contributes to a violation of any requirement of the
control authority’s NPDES, collection system permit or non-discharge permit, or
prevents sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with specified applicable
state and federal statutes, regulations, or permits. The term includes
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by the POTW in accordance with §
405 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1345) or any criteria, guidelines, or regulations
developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA)(42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et
seq.), the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Marine
Protection Research and Sanctuary Act (MPRSA) or more stringent state criteria
(including those contained in any state sludge management plan prepared
pursuant to Title IV of SWDA) applicable to the method of disposal or use
employed by the POTW.
      MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
      NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in
accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which applies to
a specific category of industrial users, and which appears in 40 C.F.R. Chapter
1, Subchapter N, parts 405 through 471.
      NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM or NPDES, PERMIT. A
permit issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342) or pursuant to
G.S. § 143-215.1 by the state under delegation from EPA.
      NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE
STANDARD. Absolute prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances;
these prohibitions appear in §
52.020 and are developed under the authority of § 307(b) of the Act and 40
C.F.R. § 403.5.
      NEW SOURCE. As defined in 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(m), including any subsequent
amendments or additions.
         (a)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which
there may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed categorical pretreatment standards under §
307(c) of the Act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with § 307(c), provided that:
            1.   The building, structure, facility, or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located;
            2.   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
            3.   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
         (b)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the
criteria of divisions (a)2. or (a)3. above but otherwise alters, replaces, or
adds to existing process or production equipment.
         (c)   For purposes of this definition, construction of a NEW SOURCE
has commenced if the owner or operator has:
            1.   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
               a.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
               b.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which
is necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source
facilities or equipment.
            2.   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering, and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation
under this definition.
      NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product, or
finished product.
      NON-DISCHARGE PERMIT. A disposal system permit issued by the state
pursuant to G.S. § 143-215.1.
      PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the state
in quantities or concentrations which, alone or with discharges from other
sources, causes a violation, including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation, of the control authority’s NPDES, collection system or non-
discharge permit.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents, or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state, and local government
entities.
      pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a substance, expressed as
standard units, and calculated as the logarithm (base ten) of the reciprocal of
the concentration of hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
      POLLUTANT. Any waste as defined in G.S. § 143-213(18); dredged spoil,
solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions,
medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials,
heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and industrial,
municipal, and agricultural waste and certain characteristics of wastewater
(e.g., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, metals, BOD, COD, toxicity, and
odor).
      POTW DIRECTOR. The county administrator designated with the
responsibility for the pretreatment program and enforcement of this chapter.
      POTW TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW designed to provide
treatment to wastewater.
      PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise
introducing such pollution into a POTW. The reduction or alteration can be
obtained by physical, chemical, or biological processes, or process changes or
other means, except by diluting the concentration of the pollutants unless
allowed by an applicable pretreatment standard.
      PRETREATMENT PROGRAM. The program for the control of pollutants
introduced into the POTW from non-domestic sources which was developed by the
county in compliance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.8 and approved by the approval
authority as authorized by G.S. § 143-215.3(a)(14) in accordance with 40 C.F.R.
§ 403.11.
      PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard.
      PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Any prohibited discharge standards, categorical
standards, or local limits which applies to an industrial user.
      PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW) or MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER SYSTEM. A
treatment works as defined by § 2(A) of the Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1292) which is
owned in this instance by the county. This definition includes any devices or
systems used in the collection, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation
of municipal sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature. It also includes
sewers, pipes, and other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant. For the purposes of this chapter, POTW shall also include any
sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside the county who
are, by contract or agreement with the county, or in any other way, users of
the POTW of the county.
      SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage
to the user’s treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. An industrial user that discharges
wastewater into a publicly owned treatment works and that:
         (a)   Has an average daily process wastewater flow of 25,000 gallons
or more;
         (b)   Contributes process wastewater which makes up 5% or more of the
NPDES or non-discharge permitted flow limit or organic capacity of the POTW
treatment plant (in this context, organic capacity refers to BOD, TSS, and
ammonia);
         (c)   Is required to meet a national categorical pretreatment
standard;
         (d)   Is found by the county, the Division of Water Quality or the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to have the potential for impact,
either singly or in combination with other contributing industrial users, on
the wastewater treatment system, the quality of sludge, the system’s effluent
quality, or compliance with any pretreatment standards or requirements;
         (e)   Is subject to Division approval under 15A NCAC 02H .0907(b), the
control authority may determine that an industrial user meeting the criteria in
divisions (a) and (b) above has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting
the POTW’s operation or for violating any pretreatment standards or
requirement, or for contributing to violations of the POTW’s effluent
limitations and conditions in it’s NPDES or non-discharge permit, or for
limiting the POTW’s sludge disposal options, and thus is not a significant
industrial user;
         (f)   Is subject to Division approval under 15A NCAC 02H .0907(b), the
control authority may determine that an industrial user meeting the criteria in
division (c) above meets the requirements of 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(v)(2) and thus
is a non-significant categorical industrial user; or
         (g)   Is subject to Division approval under 15A NCAC 02H .0907(b), the
control authority may determine that an industrial user meeting the criteria in
division (c) above meets the requirements of 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(e)(3) and thus
is a middle tier significant industrial user. Sampling and inspection
requirements may be cut in half as per 40 C.F.R. §§ 403.8(f)(2)(v)(C) and
403.12(e)(3).
      SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE or SNC. The status of noncompliance of a
significant industrial user when one or more of the following criteria are met.
Additionally, any industrial user which meets the criteria in divisions (c),
(d) or (h) below shall also be SNC:
         (a)   CHRONIC VIOLATIONS OF WASTEWATER DISCHARGE LIMITS, defined here
as those in which 66% or more of all the measurements taken for the same
pollutant parameter (not including flow) during a six-month period exceed (by
any magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including
instantaneous limits, as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(1);
         (b)   TECHNICAL REVIEW CRITERIA (TRC) VIOLATIONS, defined here as
those in which 33% or more of all the measurements for the same pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous limits, as defined
by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(1) multiplied by the applicable TRC; (For the conventional
pollutants: BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease: TRC = 1.4. For all other
pollutants, (except flow and pH): TRC= 1.2.)
         (c)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(1) (daily maximum, long-term average,
instantaneous limit, or narrative standard) that the control authority and/or
POTW determines has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges,
interference or pass-through (including endangering the health of POTW
personnel or the general public);
         (d)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent
endangerment to human health, welfare, or to the environment or has resulted in
the control authority’s or POTW’s (if different from the control authority)
exercise of its emergency authority under 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(1)(vi)(B) and §
52.085(E) of this chapter to halt or prevent such a discharge;
         (e)   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, contained in a
pretreatment permit or enforcement order, for starting construction, completing
construction, and attaining final compliance by 90 days or more after the
schedule date;
         (f)   Failure to provide reports for compliance schedule, self-
monitoring data, baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports, and
compliance reports within 45 days from the due date;
         (g)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; and
         (h)   Any other violation or group of violations that the control
authority determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of
the local pretreatment program.
      SLUG LOAD OR DISCHARGE. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration
which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass-through, or in
any other way violates the POTW’s regulations, local limits, or industrial user
permit conditions. This can include, but is not limited to: spills and other
accidental discharges; discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature; a non-
customary batch discharge; or any other discharges that can cause a violation
of the prohibited discharge standards in §
52.020 of this chapter.
      STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of
the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1987.
      STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface
of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other liquids, and which is
removable by laboratory filtering.
      UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and
temporary noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of
factors beyond the reasonable control of the user. An UPSET does not include
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive
maintenance, or careless or improper operation.
      WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes
from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, mobile sources,
treatment facilities, and institutions, together with any groundwater, surface
water, and storm water that may be present, whether treated or untreated, which
are contributed into or permitted to enter the POTW.
      WASTEWATER PERMIT. As set forth in §
52.004 of this chapter.
      WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, rivers, brooks, swamps, sounds, tidal
estuaries, bays, creeks, lakes, waterways, reservoirs, and all other bodies or
accumulations of water, surface or underground, natural or artificial, public
or private, which are contained within, flow through, or border upon the state
or any portion thereof.
   (B)   This chapter is gender neutral and the masculine gender shall include
the feminine and vice versa.
   (C)   “Shall” is mandatory; “may” is permissive or discretionary.
   (D)   The use of the singular shall be construed to include the plural and
the plural shall include the singular as indicated by the context of its use.
   (E)   The following abbreviations when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
BOD    Biochemical oxygen demand
C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations
COD    Chemical oxygen demand
EPA    Environmental Protection Agency
gpd    Gallons per day
l      Liter
mg     Milligrams
mg/l   Milligrams per liter
G.S.   North Carolina General Statutes
NPDES  National pollution discharge elimination system
O&M    Operation and maintenance
POTW   Publicly-owned treatment works
RCRA   Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SIC    Standard industrial classification
SWDA   Solid Waste Disposal Act
TSS    Total suspended solids
TKN    Total kjeldahl nitrogen
U.S.C. United States Code
 
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011)
§ 52.003 FEES.
   (A)    Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the
recovery of costs from users of the wastewater disposal system of the county
for the implementation of the program established herein. The applicable
charges or fees shall be set forth in a schedule of sewer use charges and fees
by the POTW Director and approved by the Board of Commissioners. A copy of
these charges and fees will be made available from the POTW Director.
   (B)   User charges. A user charge shall be levied on all users including,
but not limited to, persons, firms, corporations, or governmental entities that
discharge, cause, or permit the discharge of sewage into the POTW.
      (1)   The user charge shall reflect, at least, the cost of debt service,
operation, and maintenance (including replacement) of the POTW.
      (2)   Each user shall pay its proportionate cost based on volume of flow.
      (3)   The Director of the county’s Public Utilities shall review annually
the sewage contributions of users, the total costs of debt service, operation,
and maintenance of the POTW and will make recommendations to the Board of
Commissioners for adjustments in the schedule of charges and fees as necessary.
      (4)   Charges for flow to the POTW not directly attributable to the users
shall be distributed among all users of the POTW based upon the volume of flow
of the users.
   (C)   Surcharges. The amount of the surcharges will be based upon the volume
of flow and the character and concentration of the constituents of the
wastewater.
      (1)   (a)   The volume of flow used in determining the total discharge of
wastewater for payment of user charges and surcharges shall be based on the
following:
            1.   Metered water consumption as shown in the records of meter
readings maintained by the county or town; or
            2.   If required by the county or at the individual dischargers
option, other flow monitoring devices which measure the actual volume of
wastewater discharged to the sewer. Such devices shall be accessible and safely
located, and the measuring system shall be installed in accordance with plans
approved by the county. The metering system shall be installed and maintained
at the users expense according to arrangements that may be made with the
county.
         (b)   Where any user procures all or part of his or her water supply
from sources other than the county, the user shall install and maintain at his
or her own expense a flow measuring device of a type approved by the county.
      (2)   The character and concentration of the constituents of the
wastewater used in determining surcharges shall be determined by samples
collected and analyzed by the county. Samples shall be collected in such a
manner as to be representative of the actual discharge and shall be analyzed
using procedures set forth in 40 C.F.R. part 136.
      (3)   The determination of the character and concentration of the
constituents of the wastewater discharge by the POTW Director or his or her
duly appointed representatives shall be binding as a basis for charges.
   (D)   Pretreatment program administration charges. The schedule of charges
and fees adopted by the county may include charges and fees for: reimbursement
of costs of setting up and operating the pretreatment program; monitoring,
inspections, and surveillance procedures; reviewing slug control plans,
including accidental and/or slug load discharge procedures and construction
plans and specifications; permitting; and/or other fees as the county may deem
necessary to carry out the requirements of the pretreatment program.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011)
§ 52.004 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Wastewater dischargers. It shall be unlawful for any person to connect
or discharge to the POTW without first obtaining the permission of the county.
When requested by the POTW Director, a user must submit information on the
nature and characteristics of its wastewater within 30 days of the request. The
POTW Director is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may
periodically require users to update this information.
   (B)   Wastewater permits. All significant industrial users shall obtain a
significant industrial user permit prior to the commencement of discharge to
the POTW. Existing industrial users who are determined by the POTW Director to
be significant industrial users shall obtain a significant industrial user
permit within 180 days of receiving notification of the POTW Director’s
determination. Industrial users who do not fit the significant industrial user
criteria may, at the discretion of the POTW Director, be required to obtain a
wastewater discharge permit for non-significant industrial users.
      (1)   Significant industrial user determination. All persons proposing to
discharge non-domestic wastewater, or proposing to change the volume or
characteristics of an existing discharge of non-domestic wastewater shall
request from the POTW Director a significant industrial user determination. If
the POTW Director determines or suspects that the proposed discharge fits the
significant industrial user criteria, he or she will require that a significant
industrial user permit application be filed.
      (2)   Significant industrial user permit application. Users required to
obtain a significant industrial user permit shall complete and file with the
county, an application in the form prescribed by the POTW Director, and
accompanied by an application fee in the amount prescribed in the schedule of
charges and fees. Significant industrial users shall apply for a significant
industrial user permit within 90 days after notification of the POTW Director’s
determination in division (B)(1) above. The application should include at a
minimum:
         (a)   Name of the industrial user;
         (b)   Address of industrial user;
         (c)   Standard industrial classification (SIC) code(s) or expected
classification and industrial user category;
         (d)   Wastewater flow;
         (e)   Types and concentrations (or mass) of pollutants contained in
the discharge;
         (f)   Major products manufactured or services supplied;
         (g)   Description of existing on-site pretreatment facilities and
practices;
         (h)   Locations of discharge points;
         (I)   Raw materials used or stored at the site;
         (j)   Flow diagram or sewer map for the industrial user;
         (k)   Number of employees;
         (l)   Operation and production schedules;
         (m)   Description of current and projected waste reduction activities
in accordance with G.S. § 143-215.1(g); and
         (n)   Any other information as may be deemed by the POTW Director to
be necessary to evaluate the permit application.
      (3)   Application signatories and certification. All wastewater discharge
permit applications and user reports must be signed by the current authorized
representative of the user on file with the control authority and/or county as
defined in §
52.002 and contain the following certification statement:
 
“I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.”
 
      (4)   Application review and evaluation. The POTW Director will evaluate
the data furnished by the user and may require additional information.
         (a)   The POTW Director is authorized to accept applications for the
county and shall refer all applications to the POTW staff for review and
evaluation.
         (b)   Within 30 days of receipt the POTW Director shall acknowledge
and accept the complete application; or, if not complete, shall return the
application to the applicant with a statement of what additional information is
required.
      (5)   Tentative determination and draft permit.
         (a)   The POTW staff shall conduct a review of the application and an
on-site inspection of the significant industrial user, including any
pretreatment facilities, and shall prepare a written evaluation and tentative
determination to issue or deny the significant industrial user permit.
         (b)   If the staff’s tentative determination in division (B)(5)(a)
above is to issue the permit, the following additional determinations shall be
made in writing:
            1.   Proposed discharge limitations for those pollutants proposed
to be limited;
            2.   A proposed schedule of compliance, including interim dates and
requirements, for meeting the proposed limitations; and
            3.   A brief description of any other proposed special conditions
which will have significant impact upon the discharge described in the
application.
         (c)   The staff shall organize the determinations made pursuant to
divisions (B)(5)(a) and (B)(5)(b) above and the general permit conditions of
the county into a significant industrial user permit.
      (6)   Permit supporting documentation. The control authority staff shall
prepare the following documents for all significant industrial user permits:
         (a)   An allocation table (AT) listing permit information for all
significant industrial users, including, but not limited to, permit limits,
permit effective and expiration dates, and a comparison of total permitted
flows and loads with Division approved maximum allowable loadings of the POTW,
including flow, on forms or in a format approved by the Division. The AT shall
be updated as permits are issued or renewed, and as permits are modified where
the permitted limits or other AT information is revised; and
         (b)   The basis, or rationale for the pretreatment limitations,
including the following:
            1.   Documentation of categorical determination, including
documentation of any calculations used in applying categorical pretreatment
standards; and
            2.   Documentation of the rationale of any parameters for which
monitoring has been waived under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(e)(2).
      (7)   Final action on significant industrial user permit applications. 
         (a)   The POTW Director shall take final action on all applications
not later than 90 days following receipt of a complete application.
         (b)   The POTW Director is authorized to:
            1.   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing such
conditions as are necessary to effectuate the purposes of this chapter and G.S.
§ 143-215.1;
            2.   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing time
schedules for achieving compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements;
            3.   Modify any permit upon not less than 60 days’ notice and
pursuant to division (B)(9) below;
            4.   Revoke any permit pursuant to §
52.085 of this chapter;
            5.   Suspend a permit pursuant to §
52.085 of this chapter;
            6.   Deny a permit application when, in the opinion of the POTW
Director, such discharge may cause or contribute to pass-through or
interference of the wastewater treatment plant or where necessary to effectuate
the purposes of G.S. § 143-215.1.
      (8)   Permit modification.
         (a)   Modifications of permits shall be subject to the same procedural
requirements as the issuance of permits except as follows. Any changes or new
conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for
compliance:
            1.   Changes in the ownership of the discharge when no other change
in the permit is indicated;
            2.   A single modification of any compliance schedule not in excess
of four months; and/or
            3.   Modification of compliance schedules (construction schedules)
in permits for new sources where the new source will not begin to discharge
until control facilities are operational.
         (b)   Within nine months of the promulgation of a national categorical
pretreatment standard, the wastewater discharge permit of users subject to such
standards shall be revised to require compliance with such standard within the
time frame prescribed by such standard. Where a user, subject to a national
categorical pretreatment standard, has not previously submitted an application
for a wastewater discharge permit as required by division (B)(2) above, the
user shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit within 180 days after the
promulgation of the applicable national categorical pretreatment standard.
         (c)   A request for a modification by the permittee shall constitute a
waiver of the 60-day notice required by G.S. § 143-215.1(b) for modifications.
      (9)   Permit conditions.
         (a)   The POTW Director shall have the authority to grant a permit
with such conditions attached as he or she believes necessary to achieve the
purpose of this chapter and G.S. § 143-215.1. wastewater permits shall contain,
but are not limited to, the following:
            1.   A statement of duration (in no case more than five years);
            2.   A statement of non-transferability;
            3.   Applicable effluent limits based on categorical standards or
local limits or both;
            4.   Applicable monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and
record keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification
of pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency, and
sample type based on federal, state, and local law;
            5.   Requirements for notifying the POTW in the event of an
accidental discharge or slug load as defined in §
52.002;
            6.   Requirements to implement a plan or other controls for
prevention of accidental discharges and/or slug loads as defined in §
52.002, if determined by the POTW Director to be necessary for the user;
            7.   Requirements for immediately notifying the POTW of any changes
at its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental
discharges, or slug load as defined in §
52.002. Also see §§
52.049 and 52.050; and
            8.   A statement of applicable civil and/or criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements and any applicable
compliance schedule.
         (b)   In addition, permits may contain, but are not limited to, the
following:
            1.   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, and/or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
            2.   Limits on the instantaneous, daily and/or monthly average and/
or maximum concentration, mass, or other measure of identified wastewater
pollutants or properties;
            3.   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology
or construction of appropriate containment devices and the like, designed to
reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the treatment
works;
            4.   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the municipal wastewater system;
            5.   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the system;
            6.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection
and sampling facilities and equipment;
            7.   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include
sampling locations, frequency of sampling, number, types, and standards for
tests, and reporting schedules;
            8.   Requirements for immediate reporting of any instance of
noncompliance and for automatic resampling and reporting within 30 days where
self-monitoring indicates a violation(s);
            9.   Compliance schedules for meeting pretreatment standards and
requirements;
            10.   Requirements for submission of periodic self-monitoring or
special notification reports;
            11.   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plans and records
relating to wastewater discharges as specified in §
52.057 and affording the POTW Director, or his or her representatives, access
thereto;
            12.   Requirements for prior notification and approval by the POTW
Director of any new introduction of wastewater pollutants or of any significant
change in the volume or character of the wastewater prior to introduction in
the system;
            13.   Requirements for the prior notification and approval by the
POTW Director of any change in the manufacturing and/or pretreatment process
used by the permittee;
            14.   A statement that compliance with the permit does not relieve
the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all applicable federal and
state pretreatment standards, including those which become effective during the
terms of the permit; and
            15.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the POTW Director
to ensure compliance with this chapter, and state and federal laws, rules, and
regulations.
      (10)   Permit duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time
period, not to exceed five years. A permit may be issued for a period less than
a year or may be stated to expire on a specific date.
      (11)   Permit transfer. Wastewater permits are issued to a specific user
for a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned
or transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises, or a new
or changed operation.
      (12)   Permit reissuance. A significant industrial user shall apply for
permit reissuance by submitting a complete permit application in accordance
with this section a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the existing
permit.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.005 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION POLICY.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits, and monitoring programs and from inspections
shall be available to the public or other governmental agency without
restriction unless the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to
the satisfaction of the POTW Director/Superintendent that the release of such
information would divulge information, processes, or methods of production
entitled to protection as trade secrets of the user. Any such request must be
asserted at the time of submission of the information or data.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public, but shall be made available upon
written request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the
national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit, non-discharge
permit, and/or the pretreatment programs; provided, however, that such portions
of a report shall be available for use by the state or any state agency in
judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the
report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be recognized as
confidential information.
   (C)   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall
be made available to officials of the approval authority and EPA upon request.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011)
§ 52.006 ANNUAL PUBLICATION OF SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE POLICY.
   At least annually, the POTW Director shall publish, in the largest daily
newspaper circulated in the service area, a list of those industrial users
which were found to be in significant noncompliance, also referred to as
reportable noncompliance in 15A NCAC 2H .0903(b)(10), with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements during the previous 12 months.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011)
§ 52.007 ADJUDICATORY HEARINGS.
   The local government may conduct hearings in accordance with its regular
hearing procedure.
   (A)   Adjudicatory hearing. 
      (1)   An applicant whose permit is denied, or is granted subject to
conditions he or she deems unacceptable, a permittee/user assessed a civil
penalty under §
52.999, or one issued an administrative order under §
52.085, shall have the right to an adjudicatory hearing before the POTW
Director or other Hearing Officer appointed by the POTW Director upon making
written demand, identifying the specific issues to be contested, to the POTW
Director within 30 days following receipt of the significant industrial user
permit, civil penalty assessment, or administrative order. Unless such written
demand is made within the time specified herein, the action shall be final and
binding and further appeal is barred. For modified permits, only those parts of
the permit being modified may be adjudicated.
      (2)   The Hearing Officer shall make a final decision on the contested
permit, penalty, or order within 45 days of the receipt of the written demand
for a hearing. The POTW Director shall transmit a copy of the Hearing Officer’s
decision by registered or certified mail as described in division (B) below.
      (3)   The decision is a final decision for the purposes of seeking
judicial review. The terms and conditions of a permit under appeal shall be as
follows:
         (a)   New permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
General Courts of Justice, of the terms or conditions of a newly issued permit,
the terms and conditions of the entire permit are stayed and the permit is not
in effect until either the conclusion of judicial review or until the parties
reach a mutual resolution.
         (b)   Renewed permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
General Courts of Justice, of the terms or conditions of a renewed permit, the
terms and conditions of the existing permit remain in effect until either the
conclusion of judicial review or until the parties reach a mutual resolution.
         (c)   Terminated permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in
the General Courts of Justice, of a terminated permit, no permit is in effect
until either the conclusion of judicial review or until the parties reach a
mutual resolution.
   (B)   Official record. When a final decision is issued under division (A)
above, the Hearing Officer shall prepare an official record of the case that
includes:
      (1)   All notices, motions, and other like pleadings;
      (2)   A copy of all documentary evidence introduced;
      (3)   A certified transcript of all testimony taken, if testimony is
transcribed. If testimony is taken and not transcribed, then a narrative
summary of any testimony taken; and/or
      (4)   A copy of the final decision of the Hearing Officer.
   (C)   Judicial review. Any person against whom a final order or decision of
the Hearing Officer is entered, pursuant to the hearing conducted under
division (A) above, may seek judicial review of the order or decision by filing
a written request for review by the Superior Court of the county within 30 days
after receipt of notice by registered or certified mail of the order or
decision, but not thereafter, along with a copy to the county’s Department of
Public Utilities. Within 30 days after receipt of the copy of the written
request for review by the Court, the Hearing Officer shall transmit to the
reviewing Court the original or a certified copy of the official record.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011)
GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS
§ 52.020 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the POTW, directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater
which causes interference or pass-through. These general prohibitions apply to
all users of a POTW whether or not the user is a significant industrial user or
subject to any national, state, or local pretreatment standards or
requirements.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall contribute, or cause to be
contributed, into the POTW the following pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference but in no case solids greater
than one-half inch in any dimension;
      (3)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass-through;
      (4)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 10.5 or
wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage to the
POTW or equipment;
      (5)   Any wastewater containing pollutants, including oxygen-demanding
pollutants, (BOD and the like) in sufficient quantity, (flow or concentration)
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to cause interference
with the POTW;
      (6)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (66°C), or
which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
      (7)   Any pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors,
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (8)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the POTW Director in accordance with §
52.028;
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids or other
wastewater which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are
sufficient to create a public nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to
prevent entry into the sewers for maintenance and repair;
      (10)   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges, or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case,
shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance
with sludge use or disposal regulations or permits issued under § 405 of the
Act; the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances
Control Act, or state criteria applicable to the sludge management method being
used;
      (11)   Any wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, including, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts sufficient color to the treatment
plant’s effluent to render the waters injurious to public health or secondary
recreation or to aquatic life and wildlife or to adversely affect the
palatibility of fish or aesthetic quality or impair the receiving waters for
any designated uses;
      (12)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes
except as specifically approved by the POTW Director in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
      (13)   Storm water, surface water, groundwater, artisian well water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, non-contact cooling water and unpolluted industrial wastewater, unless
specifically authorized by the POTW Director;
      (14)   Fats, oils, or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations as to cause an interference in the collection system, (discussed
further in Chapter 53 of this code);
      (15)   Any sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment
of industrial wastes;
      (16)   Any medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the POTW
Director in a wastewater discharge permit;
      (17)   Any material containing ammonia, ammonia salts, or other chelating
agents which will produce metallic complexes that interfere with the municipal
wastewater system;
      (18)   Any material that would be identified as hazardous waste according
to 40 C.F.R. part 261 if not disposed of in a sewer except as may be
specifically authorized by the POTW Director;
      (19)   Any wastewater causing the treatment plant effluent to violate
state water quality standards for toxic substances as described in 15A NCAC 2B
.0200;
      (20)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant’s effluent to fail a toxicity test;
      (21)   Recognizable portions of the human or animal anatomy;
      (22)   Any wastes containing detergents, surface active agents, or other
substances which may cause excessive foaming in the municipal wastewater
system; and/or
      (23)   At no time, shall two successive readings on an explosion hazard
meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or at any point in the
system) be more than 5% nor any single reading over 10% of the lower explosive
limit (LEL) of the meter.
   (C)   Waste discharge into the municipal wastewater system prohibited.
Pollutants, substances, wastewater, or other wastes prohibited by this section
shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged
to the municipal wastewater system. All floor drains located in process or
materials storage areas must discharge to the industrial user’s pretreatment
facility before connecting with the system.
   (D)   POTW Director. When the POTW Director determines that a user(s) is
contributing to the POTW, any of the above enumerated substances in such
amounts which may cause or contribute to interference of POTW operation or
pass-through, the POTW Director shall:
      (1)   Advise the user(s) of the potential impact of the contribution on
the POTW in accordance with §
52.085; and
      (2)   Take appropriate actions in accordance with §
52.004 for such user to protect the POTW from interference or pass-through.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.021 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Users subject to categorical pretreatment standards are required to comply
with applicable standards as set out in 40 C.F.R. Chapter 1, Subchapter N,
parts 405 through 471 and incorporated herein.
   (A)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the POTW
Director may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance with
40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c).
   (B)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the POTW Director
shall impose an alternate limit using the combined waste stream formula in 40
C.F.R. § 403.6(e).
   (C)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment standard
if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive provisions in
40 C.F.R. § 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally
different from the factors considered by EPA when developing the categorical
pretreatment standard.
   (D)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.15.
   (E)   A user may request a removal credit adjustment to a categorical
standard in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.7.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011)
§ 52.022 LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   An industrial waste survey is required prior to a user discharging
wastewater containing in excess of the following average discharge limits:
Discharge Limit
Discharge Limit
Arsenic   0.003 mg/l
BOD       250 mg/l
Cadmium   0.003 mg/l
Chromium  0.05 mg/1 (total chromium)
Copper    0.061 mg/l
Cyanide   0.015 mg/l
Lead      0.049 mg/l
Mercury   0.0003 mg/l
NH3       25 mg/l
Nickel    0.021 mg/l
Silver    0.005 mg/l
TSS       250 mg/l
Zinc      0.175 mg
 
   (B)   Industrial waste survey information will be used to develop user
specific local limits when necessary to ensure that the POTW’s maximum
allowable headworks loading is not exceeded for particular pollutants of
concern. User-specific local limits for appropriate pollutants of concern shall
be included in wastewater permits. The POTW Director may impose mass based
limits in addition to, or in place of, concentration based limits.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.023 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011)
§ 52.024 RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The county reserves the right to establish limitations and requirements
which are more stringent than those required by either state or federal
regulation if deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented in §
52.001 of this chapter or the general and specific prohibitions in §
52.020 of this chapter, as is allowed by 40 C.F.R. § 403.4.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011)
§ 52.025 DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the national
categorical pretreatment standards, unless expressly authorized by an
applicable pretreatment standard, or in any other pollutant specific limitation
developed by the county or state.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.026 PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Pretreatment facilities. Users shall provide wastewater treatment as
necessary to comply with this chapter and wastewater permits issued under §
52.004(B) of this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all national
categorical pretreatment standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out
in section §
52.020 of this chapter within the time limitations as specified by EPA, the
state, or the POTW Director, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities
necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the
user’s expense. Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and
operating procedures shall be submitted to the county for review, and shall be
approved by the POTW Director before construction of the facility. The review
of such plans and operating procedures shall in no way relieve the user from
the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an
effluent acceptable to the county under the provisions of this chapter. Any
subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall
be reported to and be approved by the POTW Director prior to the user’s
initiation of the changes.
   (B)   Additional pretreatment measures. 
      (1)   Whenever deemed necessary, the POTW Director may require users to
restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage waste streams from industrial waste
streams, and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and
determine the user’s compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The POTW Director may require any person discharging into the POTW
to install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable
storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A wastewater
discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
      (3)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the POTW Director, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand; except that
such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interception
units shall be of type and capacity approved by the POTW Director and shall be
so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such
interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned, and repaired regularly, as needed, by
the user at his or her expense.
      (4)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.027 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   The POTW Director shall evaluate whether each significant industrial
user needs a plan or other action to control and prevent slug discharges and
accidental discharges as defined in §
52.002. All SIUs must be evaluated within one year of being designated an SIU.
The POTW Director may require any user to develop, submit for approval, and
implement such a plan or other specific action. Alternatively, the POTW
Director may develop such a plan for any user.
   (B)   All SIUs are required to notify the POTW immediately of any changes at
its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental discharge,
discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-customary batch discharge,
or a slug load. Also see §§
52.049 and 52.050.
   (C)   An accidental discharge/slug control plan shall address, at a minimum,
the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW Director of any
accidental or slug discharge, as required by §
52.050 of this chapter; and
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.028 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the POTW Director, and at such times as are established by the
POTW Director. Such waste shall not violate this subchapter or any other
requirements established by the county. The POTW Director may require septic
tank waste haulers to obtain wastewater discharge permits.
   (B)   The POTW Director shall require haulers of industrial waste to obtain
wastewater discharge permits. The POTW Director may require generators of
hauled industrial waste to obtain wastewater discharge permits. The POTW
Director also may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial waste. The
discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all other requirements of
this chapter.
   (C)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the POTW Director. No load may be discharged without prior
consent of the POTW Director. The POTW Director may collect samples of each
hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The POTW Director
may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load
prior to discharge.
   (D)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for every
load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The
form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste
constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.029 CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Connections required. The owners of all improved property in the
county which is so located as to be served by the county owned or operated
sewage collection line are hereby required to connect their improved premises
to said sewage collection line.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      IMPROVED PROPERTY. Any property upon which is constructed or upon which
is located a dwelling house, mobile home, apartment house, any building or
structure used for human habitation, any commercial or industrial building or
structure required by federal, state, or local law to contain restroom
facilities or which does contain restroom facilities and any other building,
structure, or facility which discharges or has discharged by its operations
conducted therein, wastewater as the same is defined in §
52.002.
      PROPERTY LOCATED SO AS TO BE SERVED BY SEWAGE COLLECTION LINE. 
         (a)   All property which abuts a right of way in which is installed
and constructed a county operated gravity sewer collection line and the
improved property is located not more than 300 feet from said gravity sewer
collection line.
         (b)   All property which abuts a right of way in which is installed
and constructed a force main designated by the Director of the county’s
Department of Public Utilities as being designed to serve a specific area as a
collection line where due to topography or other engineering factors, a gravity
sewer line is not feasible or is not cost effective and the improved property
is located not more than 300 feet from said force main.
      SEWAGE COLLECTION LINE OPERATED BY THE COUNTY. Any sewage collection line
operated by the county’s Public Utilities Department pursuant to a contract
entered into by the county as operator and any governmental or other entity
that owns sewage collection line as owner. Such governmental or other entity
that owns sewage collection lines shall specifically include any and all county
water and sewer districts.
   (C)   Failure to connect unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any owner of
improved property located so as to be served by said county owned or operated
sewage collection line who fails to so cause his or her property to be
connected within 60 days after being notified in writing by the county’s Public
Utilities Department to so connect his or her property.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984; Res. passed 8-6-1984; Res. passed 8-2-2004) Penalty,
see §
52.999
§ 52.030 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upset.
      (1)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action
brought for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the
requirements of division (A)(2) below are met.
      (2)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset
shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or
other relevant evidence that:
         (a)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
         (b)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
         (c)   The user has submitted the following information to the POTW
Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this information is
provided orally, a written submission must be provided within five days):
            1.   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
            2.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
            3.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
      (3)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
      (4)   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
      (5)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
   (B)   Prohibited discharge standards defense.
      (1)   A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action
brought against it for noncompliance with the general prohibitions in §
52.020(A) of this chapter or the specific prohibitions in §
52.020(B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(5) through (B)(7), and (B)(9) through (B)(23) of this
chapter if it can prove that it did not know, or have reason to know, that its
discharge, alone or in conjunction with discharges from other sources, would
cause pass-through or interference and that either:
         (a) A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user
was in compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass-
through or interference; or
         (b) No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change
substantially in nature or constituents from the user's prior discharge when
the county was regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case
of interference, was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal
requirements.
      (2)   Pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(a)(2), the affirmative defense
outlined in §
52.030cannot apply to the specific prohibitions in §
52.020(B)(1), (B)(4), and (B)(8).
   (C)   Bypass.
      (1)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is
for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not
subject to the provision of division (B) above and this division (C).
      (2)   (a)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the POTW Director/Manager, at least ten days before the
date of the bypass, if possible.
         (b)   A user shall submit oral notice to the POTW Director/Manager of
an unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within
24 hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission
shall also be provided within five days of the time the user becomes aware of
the bypass. The written submission shall contain: a description of the bypass
and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times,
and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected
to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass. The POTW Director may waive the written report on a
case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
      (3)   (a)   Bypass is prohibited, and the POTW Director/Superintendent
may take an enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
            1.   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury, or severe property damage;
            2.   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
            3.   The user submitted notices as required under division (B) of
this section.
         (b)   The POTW Director may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the POTW Director determines that it will
meet the three conditions listed in division (C)(1) of this section.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011) Penalty, see §
52.999
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 52.045 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the
POTW shall submit to the POTW Director a report which contains the information
listed in division (B) below. At least 90 days prior to commencement of their
discharge, new sources, and sources that become categorical users subsequent to
the promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, shall submit to the
POTW Director a report which contains the information listed in division (B)
below. A new source shall report the method of pretreatment it intends to use
to meet applicable categorical standards. A new source also shall give
estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
   (B)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below;
      (1)   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner;
      (2)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility;
      (3)   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production, and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by such user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes;
      (4)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula set out in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e);
      (5)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process.
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the POTW
Director/Manager, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated
process. Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average concentrations, or
mass, where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of
daily operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in
§
52.054 of this chapter.
         (c)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in §
52.055 of this chapter and 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b) and (g), including 40 C.F.R. §
403.12(g)(4).
      (6)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user’s current
authorized representative as defined in §
52.002 and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements;
      (7)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion date
in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for
the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to this
subchapter must meet the requirements set out in §
52.046 of this chapter; and
      (8)   Signature and certification. All baseline monitoring reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with§
52.004(B)(3) of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.046 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
§
52.045(B)(7) of this chapter:
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
   (B)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months;
   (C)   The user shall submit a progress report to the POTW Director no later
than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and
   (D)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress
reports to the POTW Director.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.047 REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD DEADLINE.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the POTW
Director a report containing the information described in §
52.045(B)(4) through (B)(6) of this chapter. For users subject to equivalent
mass or concentration limits established in accordance with the procedures in
40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c), this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the
user’s long-term production rate. For all other users subject to categorical
pretreatment standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per
unit of production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include
the user’s actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All
compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with §
52.004(B)(3) of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.048 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   The county may sample and analyze user discharges in lieu of requiring
the users to conduct sampling and analysis.
   (B)   (1)   All significant industrial users shall, at a frequency
determined by the POTW Director but in no case less than once every six months,
submit a report indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by pretreatment standards and the applicable flows
for the reporting period.
      (2)   Sampling and analysis must be performed in accordance with
procedures set out in §§
52.054 and 52.055 of this chapter. All periodic compliance reports must be
signed and certified in accordance with §
52.004(B)(3) of this chapter.
   (C)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this subchapter
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the POTW Director,
using the procedures prescribed in §§
52.054 and 52.055 of this chapter, the results of this monitoring shall be
included in the report.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.049 REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Each user must notify the POTW Director of any planned
significant changes to the user’s operations or system which might alter the
nature, quality, or volume of its wastewater at least 30 days before the
change.
      (2)   The permittee shall not begin the changes until receiving written
approval from the control authority and/or municipality. See §
52.050(D) for other reporting requirements.
   (B)   The POTW Director may require the user to submit such information as
may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
52.004(B) of this chapter.
   (C)   The POTW Director may issue a wastewater discharge permit under §
52.004(B) of this chapter or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit
under §
52.004(B) of this chapter in response to changed conditions or anticipated
changed conditions.
   (D)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but are
not limited to, flow or pollutant increases of 20% or greater, and the
discharge of any previously unreported pollutants (increases or decreases to
production; increases in discharge of previously reported pollutants; discharge
of pollutants not previously reported to the control authority and/or
municipality; new or changed product lines; new or changed manufacturing
processes and/or chemicals; or new or changed customers).
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.050 REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A) In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to, accidental
discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a noncustomary batch
discharge, or a slug load as defined in §
52.002, that may cause potential problems for the POTW, the user shall
immediately telephone and notify the POTW Director/Superintendent of the
incident. This notification shall include the location of the discharge, type
of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken by
the user.
   (B)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the POTW Director, submit a detailed written report describing the
cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties,
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees, who may cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
   (D)   All SIUs are required to notify the POTW immediately of any changes at
its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental discharge,
discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-customary batch discharge,
or a slug load as defined in §
52.002.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.051 REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS.
   (A)   All users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall
provide appropriate reports to the POTW Director as the POTW Director may
require.
   (B)   All users classified as non-significant categorical industrial users
under §
52.002 shall provide appropriate reports as the POTW Director may require. At a
minimum, this shall include the annual certification of continuing to meet the
non-significant categorical industrial user criteria as required under 40
C.F.R. § 403.12(q).
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.052 NOTICE OF VIOLATION/REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   (A)   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must
notify the POTW Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation.
The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of
the repeat analysis to the POTW Director within 30 days after becoming aware of
the violation. If allowed by the POTW Director, the user is not required to
resample:
      (1)   If the POTW Director monitors at the user’s facility at least once
a month; or
      (2)   If the POTW Director samples between the user’s initial sampling
and when the user receives the results of this sampling.
   (B)   If the POTW Director has performed sampling and analysis in lieu of
the industrial user and the POTW sampling of the user indicates a violation,
the POTW Director shall repeat the sampling and obtain the results of the
repeat analysis within 30 days after becoming aware of the violations, unless
one of the following occurs:
      (1)   The POTW Director monitors at the user’s facility at least once a
month;
      (2)   The POTW Director samples the user between their initial sampling
and when the POTW receives the results of this initial sampling; or
      (3)   The POTW Director requires the user to perform sampling and submit
the results to the POTW Director within the 30-day deadline of the POTW
becoming aware of the violation.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.053 NOTIFICATION OF THE DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   The county prohibits the discharge of any hazardous wastes without
notification and approval of the POTW Director.
   (A)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall notify
the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
C.F.R. part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste
as set forth in 40 C.F.R. part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the
type of discharge (continuous, batch, or other). If the user discharges more
than 100 kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the
notification also shall contain the following information to the extent such
information is known and readily available to the user: an identification of
the hazardous constituents contained in the wastes; an estimation of the mass
and concentration of such constituents in the waste stream discharge during the
calendar month; and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the waste
stream expected to be discharged during the following 12 months. All
notifications must take place no later than 180 days before the discharge
commences. The user shall not begin the discharge until receiving written
approval from the control authority. Any notification under this division (A)
need be submitted only once for each hazardous waste discharge. However,
notifications of changed conditions must be submitted under §
52.050 of this chapter. The notification requirement in this subchapter does
not apply to pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical
pretreatment standards under the self-monitoring requirements of §§
52.045,
52.047, and
52.048 of this chapter.
   (B)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of division (A) above,
during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15 kilograms of
hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specific in
40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15 kilograms of
nonacute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity of acute
hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires
a one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the user discharges
more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require additional
notification.
   (C)   In the case of any new regulation under § 3001 of RCRA identifying
additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any additional
substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the POTW Director, the EPA
Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director, and state hazardous waste
authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90 days of the effective
date of such regulations.
   (D)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
   (E)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable federal or state law.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.054 ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as
part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed
by a laboratory certified by the state to perform the wastewater analyses in
accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. part 136, unless
otherwise specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard or
unless otherwise performed in accordance with procedure approved by EPA or the
county. If 40 C.F.R. part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical
techniques for the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must be
performed in accordance with procedures approved by EPA and the county.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.055 SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   (A) All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (B)   Grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and
grease, sulfide, volatile organic compounds, and any other pollutants as
required by 40 C.F.R. part 136. The POTW shall determine the number of grabs
necessary to be representative of the user’s discharge. See 40 C.F.R. § 403.12
(g)(5) for additional grab sample number requirements for BMR and 90-day
compliance reports. Additionally, the POTW Director may allow collection of
multiple grabs during a 24-hour period which are composited prior to analysis
as allowed under 40 C.F.R. part 136.
   (C)   All wastewater composite samples shall be collected with a minimum of
hourly aliquots or grabs for each hour that there is a discharge. All
wastewater composite samples shall be collected using flow proportional
composite collection techniques, unless time-proportional composite sampling or
grab sampling is authorized by the POTW Director. When authorizing time-
proportional composites or grabs, the samples must be representative and the
decision to allow the alternative sampling must be documented.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.056 TIMING.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011)
§ 52.057 RECORD KEEPING.
   (A)   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall
retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all records of
information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this
chapter and any additional records of information obtained pursuant to
monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements.
   (B)   (1)   Records shall include:
         (a)   The date, exact place, method, and time of sampling, and the
name of the person(s) taking the samples;
         (b)   The dates analyses were performed;
         (c)   Who performed the analyses;
         (d)   The analytical techniques or methods used; and
         (e)   The results of such analyses.
      (2)   These records shall remain available for a period of at least three
years. This period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any
litigation concerning the user or the county, or where the user has been
specifically notified of a longer retention period by the POTW Director.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.058 ELECTRONIC REPORTING.
   The POTW Director may develop procedures for receipt of electronic reports
for any reporting requirements of this chapter. Such procedures shall comply
with 40 C.F.R. part 3. These procedures shall be enforceable under §§
52.085 through 52.087 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.059 SPECIAL REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR IUS IN SATELLITE POTWS.
   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall retain,
and make available for inspection and copying, all records of information
obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this chapter and any
additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities
undertaken by the user independent of such requirements. Records shall include:
the date, exact place, method, and time of sampling, and the name of the person
(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses were performed; who performed the
analyses; the analytical techniques or methods used; and the results of such
analyses. These records shall remain available for a period of at least three
years. This period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any
litigation concerning the user or the county, or where the user has been
specifically notified of a longer retention period by the POTW Director.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011) Penalty, see §
52.999
COMPLIANCE MONITORING
§ 52.070 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The county requires the user to provide and operate at the user’s own
expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling, and flow
measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems. The
monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user’s premises, but the
county may, when such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship
on the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public street or
sidewalk area and located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or
parked vehicles.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility
to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The
facility, sampling, and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in
a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (C)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the requirements of
the county and all applicable local construction standards and specifications.
Construction shall be completed within 90 days following written notification
by the county.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.071 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The county will inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether the
purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being complied
with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the county, approval authority, and EPA or their
representative ready access at all reasonable times to all parts of the
premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination, and
copying or in the performance of any of their duties. The county, approval
authority and EPA shall have the right to set up on the user’s property such
devices as are necessary to conduct sampling, inspection, compliance
monitoring, and/or metering operations. Where a user has security measures in
force which would require proper identification and clearance before entry into
his or her premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements with his or her
security guards so that upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel
from the county, approval authority, and EPA will be permitted to enter,
without delay, for the purposes of performing their specific responsibilities.
Denial of the county’s, approval authority’s, or EPA’s access to the user’s
premises shall be a violation of this chapter. Unreasonable delays may
constitute denial of access.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.072 SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If the county, approval authority, or EPA has been refused access to a
building, structure, or property, or any part thereof, and is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program of the county designed to verify compliance
with this chapter or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the
overall public health, safety, and welfare of the community, then the county,
approval authority, or EPA may seek issuance of a search warrant from the court
having jurisdiction within the county.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011)
REMEDIES
§ 52.085 ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Notification of violation. Whenever the POTW Director finds that any
industrial user has violated or is violating this chapter, wastewater permit,
or any prohibition, limitation, or requirements contained therein or any other
pretreatment requirement the POTW Director may serve upon such a person a
written notice stating the nature of the violation. Within 30 days from the
date of this notice, an explanation for the violation and a plan for the
satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted to the county by the user.
Submission of this plan does not relieve the discharger of liability for any
violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
   (B)   Consent orders. The POTW Director is hereby empowered to enter into
consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with the person responsible for the noncompliance.
Such orders will include specific action to be taken by the discharger to
correct the noncompliance within a time period also specified by the order.
Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as an administrative order
issued pursuant to division (D) below.
   (C)   Show cause hearing. 
      (1)   The POTW Director may order any industrial user who causes or is
responsible for an unauthorized discharge, has violated this chapter, or is in
noncompliance with a wastewater discharge permit to show cause why a proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. In the event the POTW Director
determines that a show cause order should be issued, a notice shall be served
on the user specifying the time and place for the hearing, the proposed
enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a request that the user
show cause why this proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice
of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail
(return receipt requested) at least ten days before the hearing. Service may be
made on any agent or officer of a corporation.
      (2)   The POTW Director shall review the evidence presented at the
hearing and determine whether the proposed enforcement action is appropriate.
      (3)   A show cause hearing under this section is not a prerequisite to
the assessment of a civil penalty under §
52.999 nor is any action or inaction taken by the POTW Director/Manager under
this section subject to an administrative appeal under §
52.004(B)(2).
   (D)   Administrative orders. When the POTW Director finds that an industrial
user has violated or continues to violate this chapter, permits, or orders
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment requirement the POTW Director may
issue an order to cease and desist all such violations and direct those persons
in noncompliance to do any of the following:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements;
      (2)   Comply in accordance with a compliance time schedule set forth in
the order;
      (3)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action in the event of a
continuing or threatened violation; and/or
      (4)   Disconnect unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or other
related appurtenances are installed and properly operated within a specified
time period.
   (E)   Emergency suspensions. 
      (1)   The POTW Director may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/
or wastewater permit when such suspension is necessary in order to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which presents, or may present, an imminent or
substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or the
environment, interferes with the POTW, or causes the POTW to violate any
condition of its NPDES or non-discharge permit.
      (2)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service and/or the wastewater permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the
contribution. A hearing will be held within 15 days of the notice of suspension
to determine whether the suspension may be lifted or the user’s waste discharge
permit terminated. In the event of a failure to comply voluntarily with the
suspension order, the POTW Director shall take such steps as deemed necessary
including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize
damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any individuals. The POTW Director
shall reinstate the wastewater permit and the wastewater treatment service upon
proof of the elimination of the noncompliant discharge. The industrial user
shall submit a detailed written statement describing the causes of the harmful
contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence to the
POTW Director prior to the date of the above-described hearing.
   (F)   Termination of permit or permission to discharge. 
      (1)   The POTW Director may revoke a wastewater discharge permit or
permission to discharge for good cause, including, but not limited to, the
following reasons:
         (a)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his or her discharge;
         (b)   Failure to report significant changes in operations, or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
         (c)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the
purpose of inspection or monitoring; or
         (d)   Violation of conditions of the permit or permission to
discharge, conditions of this chapter, or any applicable state and federal
regulations.
      (2)   Noncompliant industrial users will be notified of the proposed
termination of their wastewater permit and will be offered an opportunity to
show cause under this section why the proposed action should not be taken.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.086 OTHER AVAILABLE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Remedies, in addition to those previously mentioned in this chapter,
are available to the POTW Director who may use any single one or combination
against a noncompliant user.
   (B)   Additional available remedies include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Criminal violations;
      (2)   The county’s District Attorney may, at the request of the county,
prosecute noncompliant users who violate the provisions of G.S. § 143-215.6B.
(Note: Under state law, it is a crime to negligently violate any term,
condition, or requirement of a pretreatment permit, or negligently fail to
apply for a pretreatment permit, issued by local governments (G.S. § 143-215.6B
(f)), to knowingly and willfully violate any term, condition, or requirement of
a pretreatment permit, or knowingly and willfully fail to apply for a
pretreatment permit, issued by local governments (G.S. § 143-215.6B(g)), to
knowingly violate any term, condition, or requirement of a pretreatment permit
issued by local governments, or knowingly fail to apply for a pretreatment
permit, knowing at the time that a person is placed in imminent danger of death
or serious bodily injury (G.S. § 143-215.6B(h)), and to falsify information
required under G.S. Chapter 143, of Article 21 (G.S. § 143-215.6B(i)));
      (3)   Whenever a user is in violation of the provisions of this chapter
or an order or permit issued hereunder, the POTW Director, through the City
Attorney, may petition the Superior Court of Justice for the issuance of a
restraining order or a preliminary and permanent injunction which restrains or
compels the activities in question; and
      (4)   Whenever an industrial user is in violation of the provisions of
this chapter or an order or permit issued hereunder, water service to the
industrial user may be severed and service will only recommence, at the user’s
expense, after it has satisfactorily demonstrated ability to comply.
   (C)   Any violation of the prohibitions or effluent limitations of this
chapter or of a permit or order issued hereunder is hereby declared a public
nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed by the POTW Director. Any
person(s) creating a public nuisance shall be subject to the provisions of the
appropriate ordinances of the county governing such nuisances, including
reimbursing the POTW for any costs incurred in removing, abating, or remedying
said nuisance.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.087 REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The POTW
Director may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with enforcement response plan of the county. However, the POTW
Director may take other action against any user when the circumstances warrant.
Further, the POTW Director is empowered to take more than one enforcement
action against any noncompliant user.
(Ord. passed 12-5-2011) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A) Any user who is found to have failed to comply with any provision of
this chapter, or the orders, rules, regulations, and permits issued hereunder,
may be assessed a civil penalty of up to $25,000 per day per violation.
Penalties between $10,000 and $25,000 per day per violation may be assessed
against a violator only if:
      (1)   For any class violation, only if a civil penalty has been imposed
against the violator within five years preceding the violation; or
      (2)   In the case of failure to file, submit, or make available, as the
case may be, any documents, data, or reports required by this chapter, or the
orders, rules, regulations, and permits issued hereunder, only if the POTW
Director determines that the violation was intentional and a civil penalty has
been imposed against the violator within the five years preceding the
violation.
   (B)   In determining the amount of the civil penalty, the POTW Director
shall consider the following:
      (1)   The degree and extent of the harm to the natural resources, to the
public health, or to
   public or private property resulting from the violation;
      (2)   The duration and gravity of the violation;
      (3)   The effect on ground or surface water quantity or quality or on air
quality;
      (4)   The cost of rectifying the damage;
      (5)   The amount of money saved by noncompliance;
      (6)   Whether the violation was committed willfully or intentionally;
      (7)   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to comply
with the pretreatment program; and/or
      (8)   The costs of enforcement to the county.
   (C)   Appeals of civil penalties assessed in accordance with this section
shall be as provided in §
52.004(B)(8).
   (D)   Section 52.029 of this chapter may be enforced by any one or move of
the following penalties and remedies:
      (1)   Criminal penalty; continuing violations. An owner of improved
property located so as to be served by said county owned or operated sewage
collection line who fails to so cause his or her property to be connected
within 60 days after being notified in writing by the county’s Public Utilities
Department to so connect shall be guilty of a misdemeanor as provided in G.S. §
14-4 and shall be fined no more than $50. Each day that said owner fails to
connect his or her property to said system shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
      (2)   Civil remedies. Upon the failure of any owner of improved property
located so as to be served by a county owned or operated sewage collection line
within 60 days after being served with notice by the county’s Public Utilities
Department to so connect, said owner shall be subject to civil remedies in the
General Court of Justice for the imposition of civil fines, the ordering of
appropriate equitable relief including injunction to compel such owner to
connect his or her improved property to said sewage collection line, or a
combination of such remedies.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1984; Res. passed 8-2-2004; Ord. passed 12-5-2011)
CHAPTER 53: OIL AND GREASE CONTROL
Section
   
53.01   Scope and purpose
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Grease interceptor maintenance, record keeping, and grease removal
   
53.04   Existing facilities
   
53.05   Right of revision
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 SCOPE AND PURPOSE.
   To aid in the prevention of sanitary sewer blockages and obstructions from
the contributions and accumulation of fats, oils, and greases into said sewer
system from industrial, commercial, and institutional establishments,
particularly food preparation and serving facilities.
(Ord. passed 7-16-2012)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COOKING ESTABLISHMENTS. Those establishments primarily engaged in activities
of preparing, serving, or otherwise making available for consumption foodstuffs
and that use one or more of the following preparation activities: cooking by
frying (all methods); baking (all methods); grilling; sauteing; rotisserie
cooking; broiling (all methods); boiling; blanching; roasting; toasting; or
poaching. Also included are infrared heating, searing, barbecuing, and any
other food preparation activity that produces hot, non-drinkable food product
in or on a receptacle that requires washing.
   FATS, OILS, AND GREASES. Organic polar compounds derived from animal and/or
plant sources that contain multiple carbon chain triglyceride molecules. These
substances are detectable and measurable using analytical test procedures in 40
C.F.R. part 136, as may be amended from time to time. All are sometimes
referred to herein as GREASE or GREASES.
   GARBAGE DISPOSAL, FOOD GRINDER, PULPER, AND THE LIKE. Any device installed
with the purpose of minimizing food wastes before discharge to a pipe.
   GREASE TRAP OR INTERCEPTOR. A device for separating and retaining waterborne
greases and grease complexes prior to the wastewater exiting the trap and
entering the sanitary sewer collection and treatment system. These devices also
serve to collect settleable solids, generated by and from food preparation,
serving, and clean-up activities, and prior to the water exiting the trap and
entering the sanitary sewer collection and treatment system. GREASE TRAPS AND
INTERCEPTORS are sometimes referred to herein as GREASE INTERCEPTORS.
   MINIMUM DESIGN CAPACITY. The design features of a grease interceptor and its
ability or volume required to effectively intercept and retain greases from
grease-laden wastewaters prior to being discharged to the public sanitary
sewer.
   NON-COOKING ESTABLISHMENTS. Those establishments primarily engaged in the
preparation of precooked foodstuffs that do not include any form of cooking.
These include cold dairy and frozen foodstuffs preparation and serving
establishments.
   USER. Any person, including those located outside the jurisdictional limits
of the county, who contributes, causes, or permits the contribution of
discharge of wastewater into the publicly owned treatment works (POTW),
including persons who contribute such wastewater from mobile sources, such as
those who discharge hauled wastewater.
(Ord. passed 7-16-2012)
§ 53.03 GREASE INTERCEPTOR MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING, AND GREASE REMOVAL.
   (A)   Grease interceptors shall be installed by users as required by Chapter
52 of this code. Grease interceptors shall be installed at the user’s expense,
when such user operates a cooking establishment. Grease interceptors may also
be required in non-cooking or cold dairy and frozen foodstuffs establishments
and other industrial, commercial, or institutional establishments when they are
deemed necessary by the HCDPU pretreatment staff for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease.
   (B)   No user shall allow wastewater discharge concentration from subject
grease interceptor to exceed 200 milligrams per liter, as identified by EPA
method 1664 or 150 milligrams per liter, as identified by EPA method 413.
   (C)   All grease interceptors shall be of a type, design, and capacity
approved by the HCDPU Director or his or her designee and shall be readily and
easily accessible for user cleaning and county inspection. No grease
interceptor shall be less than 1,000 gallons total capacity unless otherwise
approved by the Director or his or her designee. All grease traps should be
designed and constructed outside of the confines of a building.
   (D)   All grease interceptors shall be subject to review, evaluation, and
inspection by the pretreatment staff during normal working hours. Results of
inspections will be made available to facility owner, leaseholder, or operator.
The pretreatment staff may make recommendations for correction and improvement.
   (E)   Any user who is subject to this chapter that wishes to use a garbage
disposal, food grinder, pulper, and the like will have these devices plumbed to
the grease trap to prevent solids buildup in the collection lines.
   (F)   At user’s expense, all such grease interceptors shall be serviced and
emptied of accumulated waste content as required in order to maintain minimum
design capability or effective volume of the grease interceptor, but not less
often than every 30 days. Any deviation from the 30-day schedule will only be
allowed at the discretion of the HCDPU Director. A variance request should be
applied for in writing to: HCDPU Pretreatment Unit, P.O. Box 1119, Lillington,
NC 27546-1119. A variance will not result in a compromise of the integrity of
the HCDPU collections system.
   (G)   Users who are required to pass water through a grease interceptor
shall:
      (1)   Provide a minimum hydraulic retention time of 24 minutes at actual
peak flow or 12 minutes at the calculated theoretical peak flow rate as
predicted by the Uniform Plumbing Code fixture criteria, between the influent
and effluent baffles with 20% of the total volume of the grease interceptor
being allowed for sludge to settle and accumulate, identified hereafter as
SLUDGE POCKET;
      (2)   Remove any accumulated grease cap and sludge pocket as required,
but at intervals of not longer than 30 days at the user’s expense. Grease
interceptors shall be kept free of inorganic solid materials such as grit,
rocks, gravel, sand, eating utensils, cigarettes, shells, towels, rags, and the
like, which could settle into the sludge pocket and thereby reduce the
effective volume of the grease interceptor;
      (3)   Accept the condition that if any skimmed or pumped wastes or other
materials removed from the grease interceptor are treated in any fashion onsite
and reintroduced back into the grease interceptor as an activity of and after
said onsite treatment, the user shall be responsible for the attainment of
established grease numerical limit consistent with and contained in division
(B) above on all discharges of wastewater from said grease interceptor into the
county sanitary sewer collection and treatment system;
      (4)   Operate the grease interceptor in a manner so as to maintain said
device such that attainment of the grease limit is consistently achieved.
CONSISTENT shall mean any wastewater sample taken from said grease interceptor
shall be subject to terms of numerical limit attainment described in division
(B) above. If an establishment desires to use an alternative to an out-of-
building grease interceptor, because of documented space restraints, the
request for an alternative location shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Location of county sewer main and easement in relation to
available exterior space outside building;
         (b)   Existing plumbing at or in a site that uses common plumbing for
all services at that site; and
         (c)   Nature of the requested variance.
      (5)   Understand and agree that the use of chemical or biological
additives as a grease degradation agent is not permitted;
      (6)   Understand and agree that the use of automatic grease removal
systems is conditionally permissible, upon prior written approval by the
pretreatment staff. Any establishment using this equipment shall operate the
system in such a manner that attainment of the grease wastewater discharge
limit as measured from the unit’s outlet is consistently achieved;
      (7)   Understand and agree that the pretreatment staff reserves the right
to make determinations of grease interceptor adequacy and need, based on review
of all relevant information regarding grease interceptor performance, facility
site, and building plan review, and to require repairs to, modifications, or
replacement of such traps. This review may also include the plumbing
connections to and from the trap; and
      (8)   Understand and agree that a minimum of once per year, the
pretreatment staff will conduct an inspection of the user’s grease interceptor.
The pretreatment staff will coordinate with the user during regular monthly
pumping to inspect the condition of the grease interceptor walls, bottom, top,
cover, inlet and outlet pipes, and baffles.
   (H)   The user shall submit a grease trap service record form provided by
the county to the pretreatment staff on the first day of each month. The user
shall maintain a written record of trap maintenance for three years. All such
records will be available for inspection by the county at all times.
   (I)   No non-grease laden sources are allowed to be connected to sewer lines
intended for grease interceptor service.
   (J)   Except as provided herein, for a period of three months following
adoption of this chapter, although installation and maintenance of grease
interceptors will be required, no enforcement actions will be taken under this
chapter for failure to achieve limits on grease discharges from said grease
interceptors. If, at any time, an obstruction of a county sewer main(s) occurs
or a sewer lift station problem occurs that causes a sewer overflow to the
extent that an impact on the environment is realized and that said overflow or
failure of the sanitary sewer collection system to convey sewage can be
attributed in part or in whole to an accumulation of grease from a user’s
establishment in the county’s sewer main(s) or lift station, the county will
take appropriate enforcement actions and may hold the responsible user liable
for costs related to service calls for sewer line blockages, line cleaning,
line and pump repairs, fines, and the like including all labor, materials, and
equipment.
   (K)   Access manholes, with a minimum diameter of 24 inches, shall be
provided over each chamber and sanitary tee. The access manholes shall extend
at least to finished grade and be designed and maintained to prevent water
inflow and infiltration. The manholes shall also have readily removable covers
to facilitate inspection, grease removal, and wastewater sampling activities.
(Ord. passed 7-16-2012) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04 EXISTING FACILITIES.
   (A)   All existing cooking establishments shall have grease interceptors
approved by the county pretreatment staff. Cooking establishments without
grease interceptors will be given a compliance deadline not to exceed six
months from the date of the ratification of this chapter.
   (B)   Failure to comply will be considered a violation of this chapter and
such facilities may be subject to penalties and corrective actions. Said
installations shall meet the same requirements for design as new facilities.
   (C)   In the event an existing cooking establishment’s grease interceptor is
either under-designed or substandard in accordance with this policy, the owner
(s) will be notified in writing of the deficiencies and required improvements,
and given a compliance deadline not to exceed six months to conform to the
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-16-2012) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05 RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The Board of Commissioners reserves the right to revise this chapter as
conditions warrant.
(Ord. passed 7-16-2012)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any user failing to submit the grease trap service record to the
pretreatment staff by the seventh day of the following month may be fined $100
per week until said document is submitted.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any user to allow
floatable oils, fats, or greases to enter the county’s wastewater collection or
treatment system, in excess of the limits outlined in §
53.03(B), because of grease interceptors or other grease handling facilities
being inadequately serviced or maintained.
   (C)   Users receiving unsatisfactory evaluations during inspections may be
required, at the user’s expense, to sample its grease interceptor discharge and
have it analyzed for oil and grease. Results of such analyses shall be reported
to the pretreatment staff. Any user found to be in violation shall be notified
in writing of any noncompliance and will be required to provide a schedule
whereby corrections will be accomplished. Users known to be in violation shall
be subject to fines of $500 per day until actions are taken to prevent said
violations from recurring.
   (D)   Users who continue to violate this chapter may be considered for
discontinuance of sewer services.
   (E)   Users whose operations cause or allow excessive grease to discharge or
accumulate in the county wastewater collection and treatment system may be
liable to the county for costs related to service calls for sewer line
blockages, line cleaning, line and pump repairs, and the like including all
labor, materials, and equipment. Failure to pay all service related charges may
also be grounds for sewer service discontinuance.
(Ord. passed 7-16-2012)
CHAPTER 54: WATER SHORTAGE AND CONSERVATION
Section
   
54.01   Purpose and application
   
54.02   Objectives of chapter
   
54.03   Definitions
   
54.04   Procedure for implementation of water shortage plans
   
54.05   Water conservation stage I - voluntary water shortage alert
   
54.06   Water conservation stage II - water shortage warning
   
54.07   Water conservation stage III - water shortage emergency
   
54.08   Water conservation stage IV - water shortage crisis
   
54.09   Water conservation stage triggers
   
54.10   Enforcement
   
54.11   Adjudicatory hearing/appeals and variance protocols
   
54.12   Effectiveness
   
54.13   Chapter revision and public comment
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01 PURPOSE AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   The purpose of this water shortage response ordinance (this chapter)
is to provide for the declaration of increasingly serious stages of water
shortages and to define voluntary and mandatory water conservation measures to
be implemented during these various stages. These written procedures will
minimize the need to make last minute decisions and will allow the Harnett
County Department of Public Utilities (HCDPU) to respond quickly to changing
conditions, which will preserve the water resources of the county to provide
for the water demands of human consumption, sanitation, and fire protection
throughout the service area of the county.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to all users connected directly or indirectly
to the Department of Public Utilities’ public potable water supply, regardless
of whether the user is located within the jurisdictional boundary of the
county.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2018)
§ 54.02 OBJECTIVES OF CHAPTER.
   The specific objectives of this chapter are as follows:
   (A)   To establish the authority of the Director of the Department of Public
Utilities to declare water shortage conditions and implement and enforce the
procedures established in this chapter;
   (B)   To establish a chain of command for implementation of the procedures
established herein;
   (C)   To establish voluntary and mandatory water conservation measures;
   (D)   To establish enforcement protocol for violations of mandatory water
conservation measures outlined in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2018)
§ 54.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTAMINATION. The addition to any watershed area, reservoir, storage tank,
or distribution system of any material that appears in an above-normal
concentration or has high nuisance or harmful effect on the consumer or the
system.
   DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES. The Department of Public Utilities of
Harnett County (HCDPU) acting through its Director, Assistant Director, agent,
or designated representative.
   EMERGENCY. When referring to water shortage, means that conditions exist
such that treated water supplies cannot meet customer demands and that serious
treated water shortages exist.
   ESSENTIAL USE.
      (1)   Use of water to sustain human life and to maintain minimum
standards of hygiene and sanitation;
      (2)   Use of water for patient care and rehabilitation;
      (3)   Firefighting, including certain testing and drills by the fire
department if conducted in the interest of public safety and if approved by the
Department of Public Utilities; and
      (4)   Health and public protection purposes, if specifically approved by
health officials and the Department of Public Utilities, including flushing of
water lines and hydrants.
   MANDATORY CONSERVATION. Means that conservation measures are not voluntary,
and that if users fail to comply, they are subject to the penalties outlined in
this chapter.
   NON-ESSENTIAL USE. Includes but is not limited to:
      (1)   Use of water for fountains, reflecting pools, or artificial
waterfalls;
      (2)   Watering of gardens, lawns, parks, golf courses (except greens),
playing fields, and other recreational areas;
      (3)   Filling and operation of recreational swimming pools;
      (4)   Non-commercial washing of motor vehicles;
      (5)   Serving water in restaurants, clubs or eating establishments except
by specific request; and
      (6)   Refilling of cooling towers except as specified otherwise.
   TREATED WATER. Water that has been withdrawn from an approved source and has
been processed by the Department of Public Utilities.
   USER. Any person or entity using water for any purpose from the Department
of Public Utilities water distribution system, either directly or indirectly,
and for which either a regular charge is made or, in the case of bulk sales, a
cash charge is made at the site of delivery. Any municipal or private contract
water recipient is also deemed a USER.
   WATER SHORTAGE. Conditions that exist when the demands and requirements of
water customers served by the Department of Public Utilities cannot be
satisfied without depleting the available supply of treated water or the
available water supply to or below a critical level, i.e., the level at which
the continued availability of water for human consumption, sanitation, and fire
protection is jeopardized. Conditions contributing to a WATER SHORTAGE may
include but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Water supplies are below the level necessary to meet needs;
      (2)   Water quality has been threatened due to a contamination situation;
      (3)   Power outages or equipment malfunction;
      (4)   Peak customer demands on the water system;
      (5)   Inability to maintain adequate pressure and/or water supply
throughout every portion of the Department of Public Utilities water
distribution system; and
      (6)   Natural disasters.
   WATER SUPPLY. Any body of water from which the Department of Public
Utilities obtains water for treatment and subsequent distribution into the
potable water supply system.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2018)
§ 54.04 PROCEDURE FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF WATER SHORTAGE PLANS.
   (A)   The Director of the Department of Public Utilities shall be
responsible for continually monitoring the water supply, water demands, and
area conditions. Based upon any one or more of the triggers established by §
54.09, the Director will notify the County Manager that water conservation
measures are warranted. The Director shall be empowered to declare and
implement conservation stages I and II. In instances in which declaration and
implementation of stages III and IV are required, the Director shall notify the
County Manager, who shall issue a proclamation declaring the implementation of
a water conservation stage III or IV. The Director, or his or her designee,
shall also notify all municipal and private contract water recipients, all
local government agencies, and the media, to include local television and
newspapers. Notifications will also be sent to HCDPU customers and will include
but not be limited to the description of the conservation stage and the
conservation measures enacted. The following notification methods will be used
to inform HCDPU customers and employees of a water shortage declaration:
employee email announcements, posted notices at strategic county buildings,
notices in utility bills and on the county website. Required water shortage
response measures will be communicated through public service announcements on
local radio and television stations. Declaration of emergency water
restrictions or water rationing will be communicated to all customers by
telephone using the county’s call notification system.
   (B)   Once a conservation stage is declared or changed, the conservation
stage shall remain in effect until lifted by the Director or in the case of
stage III or IV, the County Manager. The Director shall continually monitor the
conditions responsible for activation of the conservation stage, and if the
trigger for a more stringent stage is met, then the Director shall be empowered
to declare the more stringent stage consistent with the above paragraph. If,
after 30 days, the current stage triggers have abated then the stage shall
either be reduced to the appropriate stage or all conservation measures
rescinded depending on conditions. This chain of command process shall be
repeated whenever a change in the status of the conservation stage or
conservation measures is necessary.
   (C)   During the effective period of any water shortage, the Department of
Public Utilities is empowered to promulgate such regulations or policies as may
be necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter. The Director, or his
or her duly authorized agent charged with implementation and enforcement of
this chapter shall be and is hereby granted the authority to implement and
enforce any of the treated water use restrictions.
   (D)   The Director shall have authority to implement, maintain, modify, and
rescind any one or more of the conservation measures in a conservation stage
and to make them applicable during various times of the month, week, or day as
he or she deems appropriate to protect the public health, safety, and welfare
until the Department of Public Utilities determines that the conditions
requiring their imposition no longer exist.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2018)
§ 54.05 WATER CONSERVATION STAGE I - VOLUNTARY WATER SHORTAGE ALERT.
   When a voluntary water shortage alert is declared, the following voluntary
conservation measures by users shall be in effect:
   (A)   For addresses that end in the number 1, 3, 5, 7, or 9, watering of
lawns, grass, shrubbery, trees, flowers, and vegetable gardens shall only be
done on Sunday, Tuesday, and Thursday. For addresses that end in the number 0,
2, 4, 6, or 8, watering shall only be done on Saturday, Monday, and Wednesday.
Additionally, customers should reduce outdoor water usage by decreasing the
frequency and duration of landscape irrigation.
   (B)   Washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, boats, airplanes, or any
other type of mobile equipment should be limited.
   (C)   Outside areas such as streets, driveways, service station aprons,
parking lots, office buildings, exteriors of existing or newly constructed
homes or apartments, sidewalks, or patios should not be washed.
   (D)   Introduction of water into any pond, ornamental fountain, pool, or
other structure should be postponed until the water conservation measures are
lifted.
   (E)   Water from public or private fire hydrants used for purposes other
than fire suppression, other public emergency, or water department needs should
be minimized or alternative sources utilized.
   (F)   Use of potable water for dust control or compaction should be limited.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2018)
§ 54.06 WATER CONSERVATION STAGE II - WATER SHORTAGE WARNING.
   When a water shortage warning is declared, the following mandatory
conservation measures shall be in effect:
   (A)   For addresses that end in 1, 3, 5, 7, or 9, watering of lawns, grass,
shrubbery, trees, flowers, and vegetable gardens shall only be done on Sunday
and Thursday. For addresses that end in the number 0, 2, 4, 6, or 8, watering
shall only be done on Saturday and Wednesday. Provided, however, that a person
regularly engaged in the sale of plants shall be permitted to use water for
such purposes at any time or any day.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to wash automobiles, trucks, trailers, boats,
airplanes, or any other type of mobile equipment except at commercial car wash
facilities. Any person regularly engaged in a commercial operation that
requires equipment be washed shall be permitted to use water for such purposes
as long as the amount of water being used is minimized.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to wash down outside areas such as streets,
driveways, service station aprons, parking lots, office buildings, exteriors of
existing or newly constructed homes or apartments, sidewalks, or patios, or to
use water for other similar purposes; provided, however, that any person
regularly engaged in the business of washing such areas shall be permitted to
use water for such purposes.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to introduce water into any pond, ornamental
fountain, or other structure making similar use of water.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to use water from public or private fire hydrants
for any purpose other than fire suppression or other public emergency or water
department need. The Director or his or her designee may grant exceptions on a
case-by-case basis.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to use water for dust control or compaction
without demonstrating a lack of alternative sources and obtaining written
permission from the Director or his or her designee.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful to fill newly constructed swimming or wading
pools or refill swimming or wading pools that have been drained. The water
level in any swimming pool filled prior to the effective date of this
declaration may be supplemented only to the extent necessary to provide for
safe operation of the pool’s chemical feed equipment.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful to intentionally waste treated water.
   (I)   All industrial, manufacturing, and commercial enterprises shall reduce
consumption to any degree feasible with a goal of reduction of at least 20%. It
is the primary responsibility of each non-residential customer to meet its
mandated water use reduction in whatever manner possible, including limitation
of operating hours, or days, if necessary.
   (J)   The owner or occupant of any land or building which receives water
from the Department of Public Utilities and that also utilizes water from a
well or supply other than that of the Department of Public Utilities shall post
and maintain in a prominent place thereon a sign furnished by the Department of
Public Utilities giving public notice of the use of the well or other sources
of supply.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2018) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.07 WATER CONSERVATION STAGE III - WATER SHORTAGE EMERGENCY.
   In the event of a water shortage emergency, in addition to the restrictions
heretofore imposed, the following mandatory water conservation measures shall
apply:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to water or sprinkle any lawn, grass, shrubbery,
trees, or flowers with treated water using an automated irrigation or sprinkler
system. Watering is permitted only by hand held hose with a spring-loaded
nozzle, by container, or by installed drip type irrigation. Provided, however,
that any person regularly engaged in the sale of plants shall be permitted to
use automated irrigation or sprinkler systems but only in amounts necessary to
prevent the loss of nursery stock.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to re-fill or supplement swimming and/or wading
pools.
   (C)   Restaurants and other food serving establishments shall use single
serving utensils, plates, and cups and shall serve water only at the patron’s
request.
   (D)   Except as provided in division (A) above, it shall be unlawful to use
treated water outdoors for any reason other than fire suppression, emergencies
relating to health and safety issues, or as needed by the Department of Public
Utilities to maintain the water system.
   (E)   All industrial, manufacturing, and commercial enterprises shall reduce
consumption to any degree feasible with a goal of reduction of at least 40%. It
is the primary responsibility of each non-residential customer to meet its
mandated water use reduction in whatever manner possible, including limitation
of operating hours, or days if necessary.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2018) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.08 WATER CONSERVATION STAGE IV - WATER SHORTAGE CRISIS.
   In the event of a water shortage crisis, in addition to the restrictions
made unlawful heretofore, the following mandatory conservation measures shall
be in effect:
   (A)   Residential users shall reduce water consumption to a level necessary
to sustain human life and the lives of domestic pets and to maintain minimum
standards of hygiene and sanitation.
   (B)   Fire protection must be maintained, but where possible, tank trucks
shall use untreated water.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to wash automobiles, trucks, trailer, boats,
airplanes, or any other type of mobile equipment.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to make any non-essential use of treated water
for commercial or public use.
   (E)   All industrial, manufacturing, and commercial enterprises (to include
nursery operations) shall reduce consumption to any degree feasible with a goal
of a reduction of at least 50%. It is the primary responsibility of each non-
residential customer to meet its mandated water use reduction in whatever
manner possible, including limitation of operating hours, or days if necessary.
   (F)   The Director may declare additional measures of mandatory conservation
controls such as larger percentage reductions in consumption, termination of
service to specific areas in the water system on a rotating basis, prohibition
of all industrial uses of treated water, etc., or whatever is necessary to
protect the health and safety of the customers of the water system.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2018) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.09 WATER CONSERVATION STAGE TRIGGERS.
   There are a variety of conditions that might contribute to a water shortage,
including but not limited to: peak customer demands on the water system; water
supplies below the level necessary to meet needs; water quality threatened or
impaired due to contamination; power outages or equipment malfunction; and
natural disasters. The following water conservation stage triggers have been
established to allow the HCDPU to respond to a water shortage with the
appropriate stage of conservation.
   (A)   Triggers based on water supply.
 
Water Conservation Stage       HCDPU Trigger
                               Unusually dry conditions result in severely low
Voluntary water shortage alert stream flows that are consistently below
                               seasonal norms and dry conditions are forecast.
Water shortage warning         Target flow of the Cape Fear River at Lillington
                               is reduced to 250 CFS or less.
Water shortage emergency       Daily demands exceed 50% of available flow.
Water shortage crisis          Daily demands exceed 75% of available flow.
 
   (B)   Triggers based on daily water demands.
 
Water Conservation Stage       HCDPU Trigger
Voluntary water shortage alert 3 consecutive days of demand exceeding 85% of
                               available capacity
Water shortage warning         3 consecutive days of demand exceeding 90% of
                               available capacity
Water shortage emergency       5 consecutive days of demand exceeding 90% of
                               available capacity
Water shortage crisis          1 consecutive day of demand exceeding 100% of
                               available capacity
 
(Ord. passed 12-3-2018)
§ 54.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any user who violates the provisions of this chapter, who fails to
carry out the duties and responsibilities imposed by this chapter, or who
impedes or interferes with any action undertaken or ordered pursuant to this
chapter shall be subject to enforcement actions.
   (B)   The Director of Public Utilities shall be responsible for monitoring
and enforcement of this chapter. Enforcement actions may include, but are not
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Written warning. Whenever the Director or his or her duly
authorized representative finds that any user has violated or is violating this
chapter or any prohibition, limitation, or requirement contained herein, or
policy issued pursuant thereto, a written warning shall be issued to such
offender by an authorized representative of the HCDPU. The written warning
shall notify the violator of the nature of the violation and the need to take
corrective action and that failure to do so will result in the issuance of a
notice of violation and a minimum fine/civil penalty of $100.
      (2)   Notice of violation. If, after a written warning, the violation
continues, the Director or his or her duly authorized agent shall serve upon
such offender a written notice of violation stating the nature of the
violation. The written notice of violation shall be affixed to the property
where the violation occurred and/or mailed certified with return receipt
requested to the customer of record and to any other person known to the HCDPU
to be responsible for the violation or its correction. When a customer of
record refuses to accept a notice of violation by certified mail, hand delivery
of the written notice of violation to the customer of record or to the person
in charge of the premises where the violation occurred shall also constitute
service. The notice of violation shall inform the user of the violation, their
responsibility to discontinue the activity within a specified period of time,
the civil penalty associated with the violation and possible termination of
service if the violation continues.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2018) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.11 ADJUDICATORY HEARING/APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROTOCOLS.
   (A)   Any user whose water use has been restricted or terminated or who has
been assessed a civil penalty under §§
54.10 and
54.99 shall have the right to an adjudicatory hearing before a hearing officer
designated by the Director of Public Utilities. Users requesting an
adjudicatory hearing must do so by submitting a written request, which
identifies the specific issues to be contended, to the Director of Public
Utilities within 72 hours following notice of the issuance of a civil penalty.
Unless such demand is made within the time specified in this section, the
decision to restrict or terminate the water use, or the civil penalty
assessment, shall be final and binding.
   (B)   The hearing officer shall notify the user of the date, time, and place
for the hearing. The hearing shall take place within 10 business days of the
written request for a hearing. A decision shall be made within 10 calendar days
from the date of the hearing and a copy of the written decision shall be mailed
to the user by certified mail, return receipt requested.
   (C)   When a final decision is issued pursuant to the above division (B),
the Department of Public Utilities shall prepare an official record of the case
that includes:
      (1)   All notices, motions, and other like pleadings;
      (2)   A copy of all documentary evidence introduced;
      (3)   A certified transcript of all testimony taken, if testimony is
transcribed. If testimony is taken and not transcribed, then a narrative
summary of any testimony taken; and
      (4)   A copy of the final decision of the Department of Public Utilities.
   (D)   Any user against whom a final decision of the Department of Public
Utilities is entered pursuant to the hearing procedure under this section may
appeal the order or decision by filing a written petition for judicial review
within 30 days after receipt of notice by certified mail of the order or
decision to the general court of justice of the county or of the county where
the order or decision is effective, along with a copy to the Department of
Public Utilities. Within 30 days after receipt of the copy of the petition of
judicial review, the Department of Public Utilities shall transmit to the
reviewing court the original or a certified copy of the official record, as
outlined in this section.
   (E)   Applications for water use variance requests are available at the
County Public Utilities Business Center and on the county website. All
applications must be submitted to HCDPU for review by the Director or his or
her designee. A decision to approve or deny individual variance requests will
be determined within one week of submittal after careful consideration of the
following criteria: impact on water demand, expected duration, alternative
source options, social and economic importance, purpose (i.e., necessary use of
drinking water), and the prevention of structural damage.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2018)
§ 54.12 EFFECTIVENESS.
   The effectiveness of this chapter will be determined by comparing the state
water conservation goals with observed water use reduction data. Other factors
to be considered include frequency of plan activation, any problem periods
without activation, total number of violation citations, desired reductions
attained, and evaluation of demand reductions compared to the previous year’s
seasonal data.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2018)
§ 54.13 CHAPTER REVISION AND PUBLIC COMMENT.
   (A)   This chapter will be reviewed and revised as needed to adapt to new
circumstances affecting water supply and demand, following implementation of
emergency restrictions, at a minimum of every five years. The HCDPU Director is
responsible for initiating all subsequent revisions.
   (B)   HCDPU customers will have multiple opportunities to comment on the
provisions of the chapter. First, a draft plan will be available at the County
Public Business Center and on the county website for customers to view. A
notice advising of any subsequent proposed revisions will be published at least
30 days prior to an adoption vote by the County Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2018)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalties. The Director of Public Utilities may assess a civil
penalty to any offender who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in the written warning mentioned in §
54.10(B)(1). Each day in which a violation of any provision of this chapter
shall occur or continue shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. The
amount of the civil penalty shall be a minimum of $100 to a maximum of $500
depending on the severity of the violation. Appeals of civil penalties assessed
in accordance with this section shall be as provided in §
54.11.
   (B)   Suspension of service.
      (1)   If, after issuance of a civil penalty, the penalty is not paid
within 30 days, the Director or his or her duly authorized agent may
immediately terminate or restrict the service to the premise where such
violation has occurred and may in addition thereto, or in the alternative, take
such other appropriate legal action as provided by law.
      (2)   At such time the Director is satisfied that the offender(s) are no
longer in violation of any treated water use restrictions, the Department of
Public Utilities may reinstate water service to the premise following the
payment of all civil penalties assessed as well as any applicable suspension/
reconnection fees as outlined in the county’s public utilities ordinance.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2018)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      [Reserved]
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
91.   HAZARDOUS WASTE AND MATERIALS
      
92.   NOISE
      
93.   MASS GATHERINGS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
Harnett County Animal Services Ordinance
   
90.01   Title
   
90.02   Purpose
   
90.03   Definitions
   
90.04   Authority and responsibility of Animal Services Officers
   
90.05   Authority and responsibility of animal shelter attendants
   
90.06   Animal control; offenses
   
90.07   Rabies control
   
90.08   Rabies vaccination tag
   
90.09   Dangerous dogs
   
90.10   Seizure and impounding of animals
   
90.11   Redemption of animals
   
90.12   Inherently dangerous wild and exotic animals
   
90.13   Conflict with other laws
   
90.14   Application to municipalities
   
90.15   Effective date
Animal Control Specific to the Towns of Angier, Coats, Erwin, and Lillington
   
90.30   Purpose and intent
   
90.31   Establishment of bird sanctuary
   
90.32   Hunting, killing, and trapping of animals
   
90.33   Keeping livestock within the town/city limits
   
90.34   Number of dogs permitted
   
90.35   Number of cats permitted
   
90.36   Confinement and running at large
   
90.37   Possession of animals and strays
   
90.38   Impoundment and reclaiming of captured animals
   
90.39   Potentially dangerous and dangerous dogs
   
90.40   Inherently dangerous exotic animals
   
90.41   Enforcement
 
   
90.99   Penalty
HARNETT COUNTY ANIMAL SERVICES ORDINANCE
§ 90.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the “Harnett County Animal
Services Ordinance” (hereinafter referred to as “subchapter”).
(Ord. 2022-25, passed 10-17-2022)
§ 90.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   There is created the Harnett County Animal Services Division
(hereinafter referred to as “Animal Services”), which shall be composed of the
General Services Director, Animal Services Manager, and such employees as shall
be determined by the General Services Director and Animal Services Manager, and
funded by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Animal Services shall designate employees or agents enforcing this
subchapter as Animal Control Officers. In performance of their duties, Animal
Control Officers shall have the power, authority, and immunity granted under
this subchapter and by the general laws of this state to enforce the provisions
of this subchapter, and the North Carolina General Statutes as they relate to
the care, treatment, control, or the impounding of animals.
   (C)   Except as may be otherwise provisions of this subchapter or other
applicable laws shall be personally liable for any damage that may accrue to
persons or property as a result of any act required or permitted in the
discharge of such duties unless he acts with actual malice.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder, or
molest any Animal Control Officer, Police Officer, veterinarian or other duly
appointed agent while in performance of any duty authorized by this subchapter
or state law or seek to release any animal in the custody of such agent, except
in the manner as herein provided. Each Animal Control Officer, while performing
his/her respective duties, shall wear an identification insignia of size and
design to be determined by the General Service Director and the Animal Services
Manager.
   (E)   Animal Control Officers may store at the Animal Services Office, or
carry in departmental vehicles, firearms approved for use, and use such
firearms when necessary to enforce sections of this subchapter, or under
applicable laws for the control of wild, dangerous, vicious, or diseased
animals.
(Ord. passed 6-4-2018; Ord. 2022-25, passed 10-17-2022)
§ 90.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADEQUATE FOOD. The provision at suitable intervals, not to exceed 24 hours,
of a quantity of wholesome foodstuff suitable for the species and age, and
sufficient to maintain a reasonable level of nutrition in each animal. Such
foodstuff shall be served in a receptacle, dish, or container that is
physically clean and in which agents injurious to health have been removed or
destroyed to a practical minimum.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER. Shelter which will keep a non-aquatic animal dry, out of
direct path of winds, out of direct sun, and at a temperature level that is
healthful for the animal. For dogs, cats, and other small animals, the shelter
shall be a wind-proof and moisture-proof structure of suitable size to
accommodate the animal and allow retention of body heat. It shall include four
walls, a roof, and a solid floor raised up off the ground, with an opening
entrance large enough to allow access to the animal, but placed in such a way
to keep the animal out of the direct path of winds. Barrels, pet crates, and
similar devices do not provide adequate shelter for a dog, cat, or other small
animal and are prohibited for that purpose. The structure shall be provided
with sufficient quantity of suitable bedding material consisting of hay, straw,
cedar shaving, or the equivalent. For all animals the containment area shall be
free of accumulated waste, excrement, debris, and other toxic or hazardous
materials so that the animal shall be free to walk or lie down without coming
in contact with any such waste, excrement, debris, or other toxic or hazardous
material, and a suitable method of draining shall be provided to rapidly
eliminate excess water or moisture. Aquatic or semi-aquatic animals shall have
an adequate amount of clean water in which to move. Adequate shelter does not
apply to the following domesticated livestock: cattle, oxen, bison, sheep,
swine, goats, horses, ponies, mules, donkeys, hinnies, llamas, alpacas,
lagomorphs, ratites, and poultry.
   ADEQUATE WATER. A constant access to a supply of clean, fresh water provided
in a sanitary manner. In near or below freezing temperatures, the water must be
changed frequently to prevent freezing, unless heated.
   ANIMAL. Any live vertebrate creature, wild or domestic, other than human
beings.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Employees and agents designated by Harnett County
Animal Services to enforce this subchapter. In the performance of their duties,
Animal Control Officers shall have all the powers, authority, and immunity
granted under this subchapter and by the general laws of this state to enforce
the provisions of this subchapter, and the state statutes as they relate to the
care, treatment, control, or impounding of animals.
   ANIMAL SERVICES MANAGER. The Manager of Harnett County Animal Services or
authorized representative.
   CAT. A domestic feline of either sex of the genus and species Felis catus.
   CROSSBREED. An animal produced by mating or hybridizing two different
species, breeds, or varieties and offspring from all subsequent generations of
that crossbred animal, such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a dog.
   DIRECT CONTROL AND RESTRAINT. An animal is under direct control and
restraint if it is obedient to a competent person's commands at all times; is
within a secure enclosure; is obedient to an electronic collar or wireless
device; is located within a vehicle, trailer, or other conveyance; or is
leashed, chained, or restrained by a device of sufficient strength by a person
or to a fixed object. A service dog and a hunting or working dog in the field
or working are presumed to be under direct control and restraint.
   DOG. A domestic canine of either sex of the genus, species, and subspecies
Canis lupus familiaris.
   EUTHANASIA. The humane destruction of an animal accomplished by a method
that involves rapid unconsciousness and immediate death, or by a method that
involves anesthesia, produced by an agent which causes painless loss of
consciousness, and death during such loss of consciousness.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any animal which is not native or indigenous to North
Carolina, does not have an established wild population in North Carolina, or is
not regulated by the North Carolina State Wildlife Commission.
   FERAL CAT. Cats unsuitable for adoption, as determined by the Animal
Services Manager or designee.
   FERAL DOG. Dogs unsuitable for adoption, as determined by the Animal
Services Manager or designee.
   GENERAL SERVICES DIRECTOR. The Director of the Harnett County General
Services Department or authorized representative. The General Services Director
is responsible for overall management of Animal Services; incorporating both
Animal Control and Shelter Operations.
   HEALTH DIRECTOR. The Director of the Harnett County Health Department or
authorized representative.
   HUNTING/WORKING DOG. A dog which is trained or being trained to assist in
herding or hunting activities.
   ISOLATION/QUARANTINE. The placing of an animal away from all other animals,
food, and equipment in the area, for the sole purpose of preventing the spread
of disease.
   NEUTERED MALE. Any male which has been surgically operated on or medically
treated to prevent reproduction.
   OWNER/PERSON IN POSSESSION. Any person, group of persons, firm, partnership,
or corporation owning, keeping, having charge of, sheltering, feeding,
possessing, or taking care of any animal.
   REPTILE. Any cold-blooded air breathing vertebrate with horny scales or
plates such as a snake, lizard, or tortoise.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. The running or wandering of animal(s) not under direct
control of the owner, caretaker, and/or possessor that is not restrained by
fence, tether, or other enclosure.
   SANITIZE. To make physically clean, remove and destroy to a practical
minimum, agents injurious to health.
   SECURE ENCLOSURE. An enclosure from which an animal(s) cannot escape unless
freed by an owner, caretaker, and/or possessor.
   SERVICE DOG. Any dog which is trained or being trained to do work or perform
tasks for a person who is blind, hearing impaired, or otherwise disabled. A dog
whose sole function is to provide comfort or emotional support does not qualify
as a service dog.
   SPAYED FEMALE. Any female animal which has been surgically operated upon to
prevent reproduction.
   STRAY ANIMAL. A domesticated animal that roams at large and is not wearing
any tags, microchips, tattoos, or other methods of identification.
   TETHERING/CHAINING. A chain, cable, rope, or the like, by which an animal is
fastened to a fixed object so as to limit its range of movement.
   VACCINATION. The administration of anti-rabies vaccine, approved by the
United States Bureau of Animal Industry, the North Carolina Department of
Agriculture, and the North Carolina Commission for Public Health.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL. An establishment maintained and operated by a licensed
veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis, and treatment of disease and injuries of
animals.
   WILD ANIMALS. All warm and cold blooded animals (other than livestock) not
normally domesticated, including, but not limited to, lions, tigers, or other
wild cats, wolves, bears, raccoons, monkeys, apes, reptiles, and any other non-
domesticated animals including hybrids bred with these animals and domestic
species, that because of their size or dangerous propensity or because they are
poisonous, venomous, or for any other substantial reason, pose a potential
danger to persons, other animals, or property, whether bred in the wild or in
captivity.
(Ord. passed 6-4-2018; Ord. 2022-25, passed 10-17-2022)
§ 90.04 AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITY OF ANIMAL SERVICES OFFICERS.
   (A)   Animal Services responsibilities:
      (1)   Enforcement of all state laws, county ordinances, health
regulations, and resolutions relating to the care, custody, and control of
domestic animals, especially with regard to vaccination of dogs, cats, and
ferrets against rabies, and the secure confinement or leashing and muzzling of
dangerous and/or vicious animals within the county.
      (2)   Investigation of animal cruelty, abuse, or neglect with the regard
to dogs, cats, and other domestic animals.
      (3)   Making such canvass of the county, including homes in the county,
as deemed necessary for the purpose of ascertaining that all dogs, cats, and
ferrets are duly vaccinated against rabies.
      (4)   Issuance to the owner of a citation for rabies vaccination for any
unvaccinated dog, cat, and ferret four months of age or older. The animal shall
be vaccinated by a licensed veterinarian, a registered veterinary technician
under the direct supervision of a licensed veterinarian, or certified rabies
vaccinator and the proof of certification is to be returned to the Animal
Control Division by the owner of the dog, cat, or ferret within three business
days. If the rabies vaccination is administrated within 72 hours, the citation
shall be void. Individuals who fail to vaccinate their pet within 72 hours may
be issued another citation.
      (5)   Issuance of civil citations to any person if there is probable
cause to believe that such person has violated any of the provisions of this
subchapter. Citations so issued may be served in person upon the violator by
the Animal Services Manager or any Animal Control Officer or they may be mailed
by certified mail. Any citation so served or mailed shall direct the alleged
violator to make payment of the fine provided therein to the Animal Services on
or before a specific date stated on the citation and the period so specified
shall not be less than 30 days after service. If the violator is served by
mail, the violator shall have 30 days from the date of the citation to pay said
citation. The citation fines may be recovered by the county in a civil action
in the nature of debt if the offender does not pay the penalty within 30 days
after being cited. Except for the appeal processes set forth for public
nuisances in §
90.06 and dangerous dogs in §
90.09, any alleged violator may make written appeal of the citation to the
General Services Director or his/her designee within 30 days of the date of the
citation. The right to appeal from the General Services Director is to the
Harnett County Superior Court. All orders issued by the Harnett County Public
Health Director must be appealed to Harnett County Superior Court.
      (6)   In addition to and/or in lieu of the civil citation provided for in
the above division, the Animal Services Manager or any Animal Control Officer
may forthwith have a criminal complaint entered against the violator and secure
and issue a warrant for his/her arrest or issue a summons against such person
to appear in court. The arrest or summons shall be for the violation of this
section of this subchapter charged in the citation and upon conviction, the
defendant shall be subject to the penalties prescribed by this chapter.
      (7)   Maintenance of all records with respect to the citation forms and
their disposition so that all such forms are capable of an immediate
accounting. Records of citations shall be maintained in the Animal Services
Office.
      (8)   Periodic investigation by the General Services Director or his/her
representative of the records of Animal Services for the purpose of determining
the disposition of the citation forms and shall report the result of such
investigation to the County Manager from time to time upon request by the
County Manager. For the purpose of making this investigation, he/she shall have
access to the records of Animal Services.
   (B)   Animal Control Officer responsibilities:
      (1)   Enforcement. Animal Control Officers have the power to issue
citations for the violation of the Harnett County Animal Services Ordinance and
other laws of the State of North Carolina relating to the ownership, control,
care, and custody of dogs, cats, and other animals.
      (2)   Investigation of cruelty to animals. Investigation of cruelty or
abuse to dogs, cats, and other animals.
      (3)   Rabies control. Act as rabies control officers and enforce and
carry out all laws of North Carolina and all Harnett County ordinances
pertaining to rabies control.
      (4)   Animal bites. Be responsible for the investigation of all reported
animal bites and for the quarantine of any such animal for a period of not less
than ten days. Be responsible for the procedures required for rabies testing if
needed.
      (5)   Seizure and impoundment. Be responsible for the seizure and
impoundment, where deemed necessary, of any dog, cat, or other animal in
Harnett County involved in a violation of this or any other county ordinance or
any state statute.
(Ord. passed 6-4-2018; Ord. 2022-25, passed 10-17-2022)
§ 90.05 AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITY OF ANIMAL SHELTER ATTENDANTS.
   It shall be the duty of the Animal Services Manager to keep, or cause to be
kept, accurate and detailed records of the below listed items and be
responsible for the operation of the Harnett County Animal Shelter.
   (A)   Origin of animals and the date the animals were received.
   (B)   Description of animals including species, age, sex, breed, color
markings and microchip identification.
   (C)   Location of animals if not kept at the Animal Shelter.
   (D)   Disposition of animals and the corresponding date.
   (E)   Bite quarantine and complaints.
   (F)   All monies belonging to the county which are derived from impoundment
fees, penalties, sale, and/or auction of animals.
   (G)   All other records deemed necessary by the Animal Services Manager.
(Ord. passed 6-4-2018; Ord. 2022-25, passed 10-17-2022)
§ 90.06 ANIMAL CONTROL; OFFENSES.
   (A)   Dogs not under direct control. A dog not under direct control of its
owner or the person in possession determined to be at large by an Animal
Control Officer. The owner or person in possession, if identified, will be
subject to penalties as specified in §
90.99. Exemption: A hunting or working dog in the field training or working
will be considered to be under direct control.
   (B)   Female dog during estrus period. 
      (1)   A female dog during the estrus period must be kept in a secure
enclosure and be at all times under restraint. Restraint in this instance does
not mean tethered to a stationary object without being confined in a secure
enclosure.
      (2)   Permitting bitch at large. If any person owning or having any bitch
shall knowingly permit her to run at large during the erotic stage of
copulation he shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor.
   (C)   Possession of stray animals and animals owned by others. 
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or intentionally,
unless with the consent of the owner or the person in possession, to harbor,
feed or keep in his/her possession, by confinement or otherwise, any dog, cat,
or other animal which does not belong to him/her unless he/she has, within 48
hours from the time that such dog, cat, or other animal has come into his/her
possession, notified the Animal Services Office. The purpose of this division
is to aid in rabies control, and to prevent the intentional possession of pets
belonging to other persons. Any person who gives away, sells, or allows an
otherwise stray or abandoned animal to be adopted without first notifying the
Animal Shelter, shall have no authority over the animal and ownership shall
remain with the previous owner to the extent the previous owner is able to be
identified.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to entice or lure any animal
out of an enclosure or off the property of its owner or person in possession,
or to seize any animal while the animal is held or controlled by its owner or
person in possession or while the animal is on the property of its owner or
person in possession.
   (D)   Vicious animals. The Harnett County Health Department Director may
declare an animal to be vicious and a menace to the public health when the
animal has attacked a person causing bodily harm without being teased,
molested, provoked, beaten, tortured, or otherwise harmed. When an animal has
been declared to be vicious and a menace to the public's health, the Health
Department Director shall order the animal to be confined to the owner’s or
person in possession’s property. However, the animal may be permitted to leave
its owner’s or person in possession’s property when accompanied by a
responsible adult and restrained on a leash.
   (E)   Public nuisance.
      (1)   An Animal Control Officer, Animal Services Manager, General
Services Director, or any other person permitted by this subchapter or law may
determine an animal to be a public nuisance when it commits any of the
following acts:
         (a)   Habitually or repeatedly, without provocation, chases, snaps at,
attacks, or otherwise molests pedestrians, bicyclists, motor vehicle
passengers, farm livestock, or domestic animals while off the owner’s or person
in possession’s property;
         (b)   Habitually or repeatedly, without provocation, chases, snaps at,
attacks, or otherwise molests persons lawfully entering the owner’s or person
in possession’s property, including but not limited to delivery drivers,
contractors, government officials in the performance of their legal duties,
licensees, guests, and invitees, even if the animal never leaves the property,
except that this provision shall not apply if such animal is restrained by a
leash, tether, pen, fence, or other secure enclosure. For purposes of this
section, an underground electronic or “invisible” fence shall only be
considered secure if it in fact contains the animal and a sign or other
notification is present to alert others that the animal is restrained;
         (c)   Damages the real or personal property of anyone other than its
owner or person in possession including, but not limited to, turning over
garbage pails, damaging gardens, flowers, shrubbery, trees, fences, gates,
equipment, or vehicles, causing physical harm to domesticated pets or
livestock;
         (d)   Habitually or continuously loiters on school grounds or official
county recreation areas;
         (e)   Habitually walks on or sleeps on automobiles of another person;
         (f)   Is not confined to a building or secure enclosure when in
estrus;
         (g)   Habitually or repeatedly eliminates on private property without
the permission of the property owner; or
         (h)   Is diseased or dangerous to the health of the public.;
      (2)   Violations.
         (a)   Determining violations.
            1.   Animal Control Officer, Animal Services Manager, or Law
Enforcement Officer. An Animal Control Officer, Animal Services Manager, or Law
Enforcement Officer who observes a violation of this division shall provide to
the owner or person in possession of the animal written notification of the
nature of the violation(s) in the form of an abatement order that shall
indicate that unless these violations are abated and measures taken to prevent
their reoccurrence within 24 hours or such lesser time as designated in the
notice, the owner or person in possession shall be required to remove the
animal from the county.
            2.   Written complaint. Upon receipt of a written detailed and
signed complaint alleging a public nuisance violation, the Animal Services
Manager shall cause the owner or person in possession of the animal in question
to be notified that a complaint has been received and shall investigate the
complaint and make written findings. If the written findings confirm a
violation of this division, the Animal Services Manager shall provide the owner
or person in possession written notification of the nature of the violation(s)
in the form of an abatement order that shall indicate that unless these
violations are abated and measures taken to prevent their reoccurrence within
24 hours or such lesser time as designated in the notice, the owner or person
in possession shall be required to remove the animal from the county.
         (b)   Failure to abate violation. If the public nuisance is not abated
in accordance with the abatement order, then the Animal Services Manager shall
notify the owner or person in possession in writing that the animal may be
impounded, a civil penalty may be issued, and/or a criminal summons may be
issued.
         (c)   Animals removed from the county. The owner or person in
possession of any animal that has been removed from the county pursuant to this
division shall, within five days after removal, inform the Animal Services
Manager in writing of the animal’s present location, including the name,
address, and telephone number of the animal’s new owner or person in
possession. If the animal has been destroyed, the Animal Services Manager shall
be informed of the name, address, and telephone number of the person who
destroyed such animal.
         (d)   Subsequent violations. The Animal Services Manager may impound
an animal if a third verified violation occurs within one year of any previous
violations of this division.
         (e)   Right of appeal. An owner or person in possession may appeal an
order of abatement to the General Services Director within five days of receipt
of the order. An owner or person in possession may appeal the General Services
Director’s determination to the Dangerous Dog Committee in accordance with
procedures set forth in §
90.09(C)(2).
   (F)   Injuring or trapping of animals. No person shall set or expose an open
jaw trap, leg hold trap, or any type of trap which would likely cause physical
harm or injury to any animal. This division shall not apply to persons licensed
by the state to trap animals, to Animal Control Officers, or to persons using
live capture traps.
   (G)   Teasing and molesting animals. No person shall maliciously tease,
molest, bait, or in any way bother any animal.
   (H)   Diseased, injured, or sick animals. Any owner or person in possession
which knows or suspects to be sick or injured shall isolate the animal and
shall obtain or provide appropriate treatment for such animal within two
business days or have the animal humanely euthanized.
   (I)   Animal abandonment.
      (1)   No owner or person in possession shall abandon or cause to be
abandoned, their dog, cat, or any other type of animal.
      (2)   No person shall take in their possession an animal they do not own
and take the animal(s) to another to be or cause to be abandoned.
   (J)   Tether violation.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to tether an animal to a stationary object for
a period of time or under conditions that an Animal Control Officer deems
harmful or potentially harmful to the animal. Tethering may be allowed in
certain cases if there is no sign of obvious neglect and the animal is not
exhibiting health or temperament problems.
      (2)   Tethers shall have swivels on both ends to reduce entanglement.
Choker chains, chains, logging chains, chains no less than 15 feet in length,
or prong (pinch) collars are prohibited while animal is tethered. Animal must
be given access to adequate food, water, and shelter while tethered.
      (3)   No owner or person in possession shall have over three dogs chained
or tethered on their property at any given time except that an owner or person
in possession may have more than three hunting dogs chained or tethered on the
property so long as such hunting dogs are provided adequate food, shelter, and
water and other necessary provisions to ensure the health and safety of such
dogs. This allows dogs to be in kennels or runs and does not limit the amount
of dogs on the property.
   (K)   Cruelty to animals.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to molest, torture, deprive of
necessary sustenance, cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill, wound, injure,
poison, abandon, or subject to conditions detrimental to its health or general
welfare any animal or to cause or procure such action. The term "torture,"
"torment," or "cruelty" shall be held to include every act, omission, or
neglect whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or
permitted.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep animals under
unsanitary or inhumane conditions, or to fail to provide proper food and water
at all times, adequate shelter protection from the weather, reasonably clean
quarters, and proper medical attention for sick, diseased, or injured animals,
as well as adequate inoculation against disease, according to the species of
the animal kept.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to confine an animal in a motor
vehicle under conditions that are likely to cause suffering, injury, or death
to the animal due to heat, cold, lack of adequate ventilation, or under other
endangering conditions.
      (4)   This section shall not apply to the lawful taking of animals under
the jurisdiction and regulation of the Wildlife Resources Commission; agencies
conducting biomedical research or training; lawful activities conducted for the
primary purpose of providing food for human or animal consumption; lawful
activities conducted for veterinary purposes; lawful destruction of any animal
for the purposes of protecting the public, other animals, property, or the
public health; and the physical alteration of livestock or poultry for the
purposes of conforming with breed or show standards.
   (L)   Animal fighting.
         (1)   It shall be unlawful for a person to bait, instigate, promote,
conduct, provide an animal for, or allow property under a person’s ownership or
control to be used for any dog fights, cock fights, or other combat between
animals.
         (2)   This section shall not apply to the lawful taking of animals
under the jurisdiction and regulation of the Wildlife Resources Commission, the
use of dogs in earthdog trials that are sanctioned or sponsored by entities
approved by the Commissioner of Agriculture, and the use of dogs engaged in the
working of domesticated livestock for agricultural, entertainment, or sporting
purposes.
(Ord. passed 6-4-2018; Ord. 2022-25, passed 10-17-2022)
§ 90.07 RABIES CONTROL.
   (A)   Immunization. It shall be unlawful for any dog, cat, or ferret owner,
or the person in possession, to keep any such animal which is four months of
age or older unless such animal has been immunized against rabies in accordance
with North Carolina statutes with an approved rabies vaccine. This vaccine is
to be administered by a licensed veterinarian or a certified rabies vaccinator.
   (B)   Bites.
      (1)   When a person has been bitten by a dog, cat, or ferret, the person
or parent, guardian or person standing in loco parentis of the person, and the
owner or person in control of the animal shall immediately notify the Health
Director and provide the name and address of the person bitten and the owner or
person in possession of the animal. Physicians treating an animal bite wound
shall report the incident to the Health Director within 24 hours of treatment.
      (2)   Every dog, cat, or ferret that bites a human being and does not
have a valid rabies vaccination tag shall be surrendered by its owner or person
in possession to an Animal Control Officer upon request. The animal shall be
confined for observation for no less than ten days at the Harnett County Animal
Shelter. The owner or person in possession shall be responsible for the cost of
such confinement.
      (3)   Every dog or cat that bites a human being and has a valid rabies
vaccination tag shall be surrendered by its owner or person in possession to an
Animal Control Officer upon request or to a licensed veterinary hospital, at
the choice of the owner or person in possession, where the animal shall be
confined for observation for not less than ten days at a place designated by
the Health Director. The owner or person in possession shall be responsible for
the cost of such confinement. Upon review of the circumstances of the
particular case, the Health Director may permit the animal to be confined on
the premises of the owner or person in possession. The Health Director may
authorize a dog trained and used by a law enforcement agency to be released
from confinement to perform official duties upon submission of proof that the
dog has been vaccinated for rabies in compliance with this section.
      (4)   In the case of stray animals whose ownership is not known, the
supervised quarantine required by this division shall be at the Animal Shelter.
If the owner or person in possession cannot be identified within 72 hours of
the event, the Health Director may authorize the animal be euthanized and the
head of the animal shall be immediately sent to the State Laboratory of Public
Health for rabies diagnosis. If the event occurs on a weekend or state holiday,
the time period for owner or person in possession identification shall be
extended 24 hours.
      (5)   If evidence of rabies does not develop within ten days after a dog,
cat, or ferret is quarantined under this division, the animal may be released
from quarantine. If the animal has been confined at the Animal Shelter, the
owner or person in possession shall pay a redemption service fee plus a
boarding fee upon reclaiming the animal. Fees will be approved by the Harnett
County Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   Animals bitten by rabid animals. Any domestic animal bitten by a
proven rabid animal or animal suspected of having rabies that is not available
for laboratory diagnosis shall be destroyed immediately by its owner or person
in possession, an Animal Control Officer, or a Law Enforcement Officer, unless
the animal has been vaccinated against rabies more than 28 days prior to being
exposed, and is given a booster dose of rabies vaccine with five days of the
exposure, or the owner or person in possession agrees to strict isolation of
the animal at a veterinary hospital for a period of six months.
   (D)   Management of animals exposed to rabies. When the Health Director
reasonably suspects that a dog, cat, or ferret has been exposed to the saliva
or nervous tissue of a proven rabid animal or animal reasonably suspected of
having rabies that is not available for laboratory diagnosis, the animal shall
be considered to have been exposed to rabies. The recommendations and
guidelines for rabies post-exposure management specified by the National
Association of State Public Health Veterinarians in the most current edition of
the Compendium of Animal Rabies Prevention and Control shall be the required
control measures.
   (E)   Rabid animal testing procedure. An animal diagnosed as having rabies
by a licensed veterinarian shall be destroyed and its head sent to the State
Laboratory of Public Health. The heads of all animals that die during a
confinement period required by this section shall be immediately sent to the
State Laboratory for Public Health for rabies diagnosis.
   (F)   Unlawful killing, release, etc. of certain animals. It shall be
unlawful for any person to kill, subject to the provision of this section, or
release any animal suspected of having been exposed to rabies, or any animal
biting a human, or to remove such animal from the county without written
permission from the Animal Services Manager.
   (G)   Failure to surrender animal for confinement. It shall be unlawful for
any person to fail or refuse to surrender any animal for confinement or
destruction as required in this section. If the owner or person in possession
refuses to confine the animal as required by this section, the Health Director
may order seizure of that animal and its confinement for ten days at the
expense of the owner or person in possession.
(Ord. passed 6-4-2018; Ord. 2022-25, passed 10-17-2022)
§ 90.08 RABIES VACCINATION TAG.
   (A)   Dogs shall wear rabies tags at all times. Cats and ferrets shall not
be required to wear rabies tags; however, the owner or person in possession of
a cat or ferret shall maintain records of rabies vaccination and provide such
proof upon request by an Animal Control Officer or the Animal Services Manager.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove the rabies vaccination
tag from any dog, cat or ferret belonging to another person residing in Harnett
County unless by the direction of the owner or the person in possession.
   (C)   Animal Control Officers shall canvass the county to determine if there
are any dogs not wearing the required rabies vaccination tag. If a dog is found
not wearing the required tag, the Animal Control Officer shall check to see if
the owner's or person in possession's identification can be found on the dog.
If the dog is wearing an owner or person in possession identification tag, or
if the Animal Control Officer otherwise knows who the owner or person in
possession is, the Animal Control Officer shall notify the owner or person in
possession in writing to have the animal vaccinated against rabies and to
produce the required rabies vaccination certificate to the Animal Control
Officer within three days of notification. If the dog is not wearing an owner
or person in possession identification tag and the Animal Control Officer does
not otherwise know who the owner or person in possession is, the Animal Control
Officer may impound the animal pursuant to the provisions of §
90.09.
   (D)   Before an owner or the person in possession is charged for violation
of this rabies tag provision, the Animal Control Officer shall give the owner
or the person in possession the opportunity to produce a rabies vaccination
certificate to the Animal Control Officer showing the dog, cat or ferret to
have been properly vaccinated and if said certificate is produced no citation
shall be issued.
(Ord. passed 6-4-2018; Ord. 2022-25, passed 10-17-2022)
§ 90.09 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
      DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   A dog that without provocation has killed or inflicted severe
injury on a person; or
         (b)   Any dog owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose
of dog fighting, or any dog trained for dog fighting.
      DANGEROUS DOG COMMITTEE. A three-member appellate review committee
appointed by the Harnett County Board of Commissioners that hears appeals from
the General Services Appointed Review Committee.
      INJURY. Any physical injury that result in medical treatment exceeding
the cost of $100.
      OWNER’S REAL PROPERTY. Any real property owned or leased by the owner of
the dog, but does not include any public right-of-way or a common area of a
condominium, apartment complex, or townhouse development.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that:
         (a)   Inflicted a bite on a person that resulted in broken bones or
broken skin or required cosmetic surgery or hospitalization;
         (b)   Killed or inflicted severe injury upon a domestic animal when
not on the owner’s real property; or
         (c)   Approached a person when not on the owner's property in a
vicious or terrorizing manner in an apparent attitude of attack.
      SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that results in broken bones or
disfiguring lacerations or requires cosmetic surgery or hospitalization.
   (B)   Exclusions. The provisions of this section do not apply to:
      (1)   A dog being used by a Law Enforcement Officer to carry out the Law
Enforcement Officer's official duties;
      (2)   A dog where the injury or damage inflicted by the dog was sustained
by a domestic animal while the dog was working as a lawful hunting dog, herding
dog, or predator control dog on the property of, or under the control of, its
owner or keeper, and the damage or injury was to a species or type of domestic
animal appropriate to the work of the dog; or
      (3)   A dog where the injury was inflicted by the dog was sustained by a
person who, at the time of the injury, was committing a willful trespass or
other tort; was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog; or had tormented,
abused, or assaulted the dog; or was committing or attempting to commit a
crime.
   (C)   Procedure.
      (1)   A witness of an alleged dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog,
including an Animal Control Officer or law enforcement officer, or a victim of
an alleged dangerous or potentially dangerous dog may file a dangerous dog
hearing request form to have the dog declared dangerous or potentially
dangerous. The General Services Director will be responsible for reviewing the
form and making a determination as to whether a dog is a dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog. When making the determination that a dog is a
dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog, Animal Services must notify the
owner or person in possession in writing, giving the reasons before the dog may
be considered dangerous or potentially dangerous under this section. The
General Services Director shall consider any written response by the owner or
person in possession to the written notification. Once a decision has been
made, the owner or person in possession must provide Animal Services with a
current address where the dog will be housed, notify Animal Services within 48
hours of any change in address of the owner or person in possession or the
dangerous dog, and follow all state laws and county ordinances dealing with
dangerous or potentially dangerous dogs until all appeals have been exhausted
and a final decision rendered, or no appeal is requested.
      (2)   The owner or person in possession may appeal the determination of a
dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog to the Dangerous Dog Committee by
filing written objections with the Dangerous Dog Committee within ten business
days after receiving written notice, together with such appellant's filing fees
as may be established by the Harnett County Board of Commissioners. The
Dangerous Dog Committee shall schedule a hearing of said appeal and the dog
owner or person in possession and complainant will be notified of the hearing
date ten business days prior to said hearing. Until the appeal is final, the
dog must be controlled and confined pursuant to the ruling from which the
appeal was taken. Any appeal from the final decision of the Dangerous Dog
Committee shall be taken to Harnett County Superior Court by the owner or
person in possession filing a notice of appeal and a petition for review within
ten business days from the final decision of the Dangerous Dog Committee. The
appeal shall be heard de novo before a Superior Court judge sitting in the
county.
   (D)   Precautions against attacks by dangerous or potentially dangerous
dogs.
      (1)   If so ordered in the determination made pursuant to division (C)
(3), it is unlawful for an owner or person in possession to:
         (a)   Leave a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog unattended on
the owner's or person in possession’s real property unless the dog is confined
indoors, or in a securely enclosed and padlocked pen with a concrete bottom and
a secure top, along with the posting of the premises with four clearly visible
warning signs adequate to inform the public, including children, of the
presence of a dangerous dog, and strategically placed on the property as
designated by the appropriate county authority.
         (b)   Permit a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog to go beyond
the owner's or person in possession’s real property unless the owner or person
in possession has the dog leashed and the leash in hand and the dog muzzled or
otherwise securely restrained and muzzled.
         (c)   Even in the presence of an owner, person in possession, or
others, permit a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog on the owner's or
person in possession’s property, not confined in a secured enclosure, to be
without a muzzle.
      (2)   In making a determination pursuant to division (C), any of the
measures included in this division may be waived by the General Services
Director or the Dangerous Dog Committee, or other similar measures or
conditions may be substituted in their place.
      (3)   Within seven days after a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous
dog determination becomes final, the owner or person in possession must have
the dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog tattooed with an identification
number or micro-chip identification as directed by the Animal Services Manager
on the inside of the right hind leg or microchipped in the standard location
between the shoulder blades. Within 30 days, the dog must be surgically
sterilized. Within 72 hours of the death of a dangerous dog or potentially
dangerous dog, the owner or person in possession of the dog shall provide
written notification of the dog's death to Harnett County Animal Services. If
the dog's body is not available, the notification shall fully identify the dog
and shall bear the notarized signature of the owner or person in possession and
a licensed veterinarian, all attesting to the dog's death.
      (4)   If the owner or person in possession of a dangerous dog or
potentially dangerous dog transfers ownership or possession of the dog to
another person, the owner or person in possession shall provide written notice
within 48 hours to:
         (a)   Harnett County Animal Services and, if declared dangerous or
potentially dangerous by another county or municipality, the authority that
made such determination stating the name and address of the new owner or
possessor of the dog; and
         (b)   The person taking ownership or possession of the dog, specifying
the dog's dangerous behavior and the dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog
determination.
      (5)   The person taking ownership of the dog shall notify Harnett County
Animal Services within 48 hours of the dog's change of address and their
knowledge of the dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog determination.
      (6)   Violation of this section is a Class 3 misdemeanor.
   (E)   Violation of conditions; euthanasia.
      (1)   Animal Services may take possession of any dog concerning whom it
has cause to believe an owner or person in possession has violated division
(D). For this purpose, the requirements for sufficient cause shall be satisfied
if a law enforcement officer or Animal Control Officer observes the violation
or if Animal Services receives an affidavit setting forth the violation.
         (a)   If Animal Services receives an affidavit and there is a probable
cause to believe a violation has occurred, Animal Services may impound the dog
and investigate the complaint.
         (b)   Upon a finding by the Animal Services Manager that the owner or
person in possession willfully or negligently violated division (D) of this
section, Animal Services may seize the dog and issue the owner or person in
possession a notice of intent to euthanize the dog within five days.
         (c)   If the Animal Services Manager determines the owner or person in
possession did not violate §
90.08(D), the owner or person in possession shall have five days upon
notification from Animal Services to redeem the dog. If the owner or person in
possession fails to reclaim the dog, the dog may be disposed of in accordance
with this chapter.
         (d)   The Animal Services Manager, in their sole discretion based on
the nature and severity of the violation of division (D), may release the dog
back to the owner or person in possession if the Animal Services Manager is
reasonably assured that the dangerous or potentially dangerous dog will be
properly confined on the premises of its owner or person in possession. Such a
determination does not absolve the owner or person in possession of any fees,
fines, or penalties associated with the violation.
      (2)   The owner or person in possession of a dog that has been seized for
violation of §
90.08(D) and issued a notice of intent to euthanize the dog, may appeal the
decision to the General Services Director prior to the date set forth in the
notice of intent to euthanize. The owner or person in possession may appeal the
General Services Director’s determination to the Dangerous Dog Committee by
filing their written objections in accordance with the procedures set forth in
(C)(2). Appeals of the Dangerous Dog Committee shall be heard in the Harnett
County Superior Court. The appeal shall be heard de novo before a Superior
Court Judge sitting in the county.
      (3)   The owner or person in possession of a dog that has been deemed
dangerous or potentially dangerous that attacks a person and causes physical
injuries requiring medical treatment in excess of $100 shall be guilty of a
Class 1 misdemeanor.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall prevent a private citizen from
bringing an action against the owner or person in possession of a dog which has
caused injury to a person, their property, or another animal for damages,
injuries, or any other loss resulting from the dog being dangerous or
potentially dangerous.
(Ord. passed 6-4-2018; Ord. 2022-25, passed 10-17-2022)
§ 90.10 SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDING OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Power of seizure and impoundment.
      (1)   Animal Control Officers and other law enforcement officers are
empowered to seize and impound the following:
         (a)   Any animal determined to be vicious or a public nuisance under
the provisions of this subchapter;
         (b)   Any animal which has been found to be a victim of cruel
treatment as determined by an Animal Control Officer or Animal Services
Manager;
         (c)   Any wild or exotic animal determined to be held in violation of
the provisions of this subchapter; and/or
         (d)   Any dog, cat, or ferret appearing to not be in compliance with
the rabies control provisions of this subchapter.
         (e)   Any animal running at large or which appears to be lost or
strayed.
         (f)   Any dog that has been deemed dangerous or potentially dangerous
and is suspected of violating conditions set forth in §
90.09(D).
         (g)   Any animal that is in need of life-saving medical assistance or
if the conditions pose an imminent threat of death or severe injury to the
animal.
      (2)   Impoundment of such animal shall not relieve the owner or the
person in possession thereof from any penalty which may be imposed for
violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   Dead animals. Animal Control Officers shall not be required to pick up
dead animals.
   (C)   Dangerous conditions. Animal Control Officers shall not be required,
in the process of seizing or impounding animals, to place themselves in a
situation which may jeopardize their health or safety.
   (D)   Notification to owners or the person in possession. Upon impoundment,
the Animal Control Officer shall make a reasonable, diligent attempt to
determine the ownership of the impounded animal, if not already known, and to
notify the owner or the person in possession of the impounded animal and the
procedures for redemption according to the provisions of this subchapter.
   (E)   Impoundment time periods.
      (1)   Impounded animals shall be held for the following periods of time:
         (a)   Impounded stray animals shall be held for 72 hours before
becoming available for adoption or euthanasia.
         (b)   In appropriate cases, the Animal Services Manager may, at his/
her discretion, extend the three day holding period.
         (c)   In appropriate cases, for example, animals which are badly
wounded or diseased with a highly contagious disease such as distemper or
parvovirus, the Animal Services Manager may use his/her discretion to reduce
the three day holding period and to euthanize the animal immediately or at such
appropriate time as determined by the Animal Services Manager.
      (2)   After the holding period, animals may be disposed of by the
following methods:
         (a)   By adoption;
         (b)   By sale;
         (c)   By humane euthanasia; or
         (d)   Public auction.
(Ord. passed 6-4-2018; Ord. 2022-25, passed 10-17-2022)
§ 90.11 REDEMPTION OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   During the time an animal is impounded at the Animal Shelter it shall
be available for redemption by the owner or the person in possession unless the
animal is under quarantine under the provisions of this subchapter or if the
animal was impounded due to cruel treatment. A redemption service fee shall be
charged each time an animal is redeemed plus a boarding fee per day. Fees will
be approved by the Harnett County Board of Commissioners. If the owner or the
person in possession of an impounded animal can be identified and if the owner
or the person in possession chooses not to redeem his/her animal, the Animal
Services Manager may charge said owner or the person in possession for the
animal's boarding and veterinarian costs. In order to recover said boarding and
veterinarian costs, the Animal Services Manager may adopt or euthanize an
impounded animal, if the owner or the person in possession cannot be
identified, or if the owner or the person in possession refuses to redeem the
animal pursuant to the provision of this subchapter.
   (B)   Any person attempting to redeem an impounded animal shall present
proof sufficient to satisfy the Animal Services Manager or other Animal
Services personnel of ownership of the animal. Evidence of ownership may
include, but is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   A valid animal license from Harnett County or another county;
      (2)   A valid rabies tag for the animal;
      (3)   Ownership documents, pedigree papers, bill of sale, or any other
document identifying the person as the owner or person in possession of the
animal; or
      (4)   Photographs of the animal with the person claiming ownership or
possession of the animal.
(Ord. passed 6-4-2018; Ord. 2022-25, passed 10-17-2022)
§ 90.12 INHERENTLY DANGEROUS WILD AND EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   At no time may any person, firm, partnership, or corporation harbor,
keep, shelter, lodge, feed, or take care of an inherently dangerous wild or
exotic animal within Harnett County. Inherently dangerous wild animals and
exotic animals include all felines (other than domesticated house cats),
nonhuman primates, bears, wolves, coyotes, reptiles (poisonous, crushing, and
giant), and any crossbreed of such animals which have similar characteristics
of the animals specified herein.
   (B)   Exceptions. This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Veterinarian clinics or other state or federally licensed wildlife
rehabilitators in possession of such wild or exotic animals for treatment or
rehabilitation purposes.
      (2)   Any institute or organization, which exists primarily to educate
the public in the areas of science and nature; which receives or has received
financial support from federal, state, and/or local governments; which has a
paid membership open to and composed of members of the general public; which is
directed by a Board of Directors or similar body elected by the membership; and
which has been declared a 501(c)(3) exempt organization by the Internal Revenue
Services.
      (3)   Non-resident circuses for no longer than one seven-day period, per
each separate location where such circus is held within the county, per
calendar year.
      (4)   Non-resident carnivals for longer than one seven-day period, per
each separate location where such carnival is held within the county, per
calendar year.
      (5)   Persons temporarily transporting such mammals or reptiles through
the county, provided that such transit time shall not be more than 24 hours.
   (C)   Impoundment.
      (1)   Any inherently dangerous wild or exotic animal which is harbored,
kept, sheltered, lodged, fed, or taken care of within Harnett County in
contravention of this section may be impounded by an Animal Control Officer for
the protection and health of the animal and/or the protection of the public.
Whenever possible, the Animal Control Officer shall impound the wild or exotic
animal in the presence of its owner or the person in possession; however, if
such is not practicable, then the Animal Control Officer may impound such wild
or exotic animal consistent with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   If a wild or exotic animal is impounded pursuant to this section,
the owner or the person in possession of the animal or reptile shall be
notified by the Animal Control Officer as soon as possible.
      (3)   Any wild or exotic animal impounded pursuant to this section will
be held three days for the owner or the person in possession to claim pursuant
to division (C)(4) of this section, but if the wild or exotic animal cannot be
impounded safely by the Animal Control Officer or if proper and safe housing
cannot be found for the wild or exotic animal or reptile, the Animal Control
Officer can immediately euthanize the wild or exotic animal.
      (4)   The owner or person in possession of the wild or exotic animal can
reclaim the wild or exotic animal if the person satisfies the Animal Services
Manager that a safe transfer of the wild or exotic animal to an appropriate
location outside of the county has been arranged.
      (5)   If no owner or the person in possession can be located or will
claim the wild or exotic animal within three days after impoundment the wild or
exotic animal may be adopted or euthanized at the discretion of the Animals
Services Manager.
      (6)   All costs of impoundment and care of the wild or exotic animal will
be charged to its owner or the person in possession regardless of whether the
wild or exotic animal is claimed by or returned to said owner or the person in
possession. In the event the wild or exotic animal is reclaimed, such costs
shall be paid in full prior to the owner or the person in possession reclaiming
the wild or exotic animal pursuant to division (C)(4) of this section.
(Ord. passed 6-4-2018; Ord. 2022-25, passed 10-17-2022)
§ 90.13 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS.
   Insofar as the provisions of this subchapter are inconsistent with the
provisions of any other law, except a provision of state or federal law, the
provisions of this subchapter shall control.
(Ord. passed 6-4-2018; Ord. 2022-25, passed 10-17-2022)
§ 90.14 APPLICATION TO MUNICIPALITIES.
   (A)   Authority in municipalities. Animal Control Officers shall have no
authority to enforce this subchapter within the boundaries of any municipality
unless the governing body of the municipality authorizes the enforcement of
this subchapter within its boundaries or the county and municipality enter into
an interlocal agreement to enforce the municipality’s ordinance.
   (B)   Non-enforcement of inconsistent ordinances. The Animal Control Officer
shall be prohibited from enforcing the provisions of any ordinance or municipal
law not adopted according to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 6-4-2018; Ord. 2022-25, passed 10-17-2022)
§ 90.15 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in effect from and after November 15, 1993.
(Ord. passed 6-4-2018; Ord. 2022-25, passed 10-17-2022)
ANIMAL CONTROL SPECIFIC TO THE TOWNS OF ANGIER, COATS, ERWIN, AND LILLINGTON
§ 90.30 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide and define authority of the
county’s Animal Control Department within the towns of Angier, Coats, Erwin,
and Lillington. The county’s Animal Control has charge of protecting the
citizens of these towns from rabies transmitted by unconfined, uncontrolled, or
un-immunized animals, to regulate animals that may be a nuisance, to ensure
that all animals are treated in a humane manner, and in the promotion of
responsible pet ownership and animal welfare. The county’s Animal Control in
cooperation with the towns of Angier, Coats, Erwin, and Lillington are hereby
charged with the responsibility of animal control in conjunction within these
town’s jurisdictions. This subchapter will supersede all town animal control
ordinances and shall pertain to the towns of Angier, Erwin, Coats, and
Lillington only. The most current county animal control ordinance shall also
pertain to the towns in agreement of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2008)
§ 90.31 ESTABLISHMENT OF BIRD SANCTUARY.
   (A)   The area embraced within the corporate limits of the town and all land
owned or leased by the town outside the corporate limits is hereby designated
as a bird sanctuary.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to intentionally trap, hunt, shoot, or otherwise
kill, within a sanctuary hereby established, any native wild bird. It shall be
lawful to trap birds or fowl specifically declared a nuisance by the Town Board
when such birds or fowl are found to be congregating in such number in a
particular locality that they constitute a nuisance or a menace to health or
property.
   (C)   The bird clubs of the town are hereby granted permission to erect
artistic signs, giving notice of the regulations therein provided, at such
places and of such design as may be approved by the Town Board.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Bird Sanctuary establishment, see G.S. § 160A-188
§ 90.32 HUNTING, KILLING, AND TRAPPING OF ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt or kill any animal within the
territorial limits of the towns. Trapping may be done with permission from the
county’s Animal Control Department. This section does not apply to the Police
Departments or the county’s Animal Control, or duly authorized agents when
enforcing the provisions provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.33 KEEPING LIVESTOCK WITHIN THE TOWN/CITY LIMITS.
   No person may keep within the town any livestock and/or fowl except in
accordance with this section.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain, keep, house, or
stable any horse, mule, pony, cow, sheep, goat, or any livestock or fowl within
the corporate limits of the town within 500 feet of any residential of
commercial building, school grounds, church, or other establishment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain, keep, or house any
cattle, goat, horse, or other livestock or fowl on a fenced lot containing less
than one acre.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain, keep, or house within
the town any swine.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to permit any fowl, including, but not limited
to, chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys, guineas, or other fowl, to run at large
within the corporate limits of the town.
   (E)   Any fowl kept within the corporate limits of the town must be
contained by a fence, building, or other enclosure that will ensure that the
fowl will not run at large.
   (F)   Any fowl found running at large may be taken into possession and/or
destroyed by the county’s Animal Control anywhere within the corporate limits
of the town.
   (G)   No more than six fowl, including, but not limited to, chickens, ducks,
geese, turkeys, guineas, or other fowl may be kept on a lot containing one acre
or less.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.34 NUMBER OF DOGS PERMITTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep on any lot or premises within
the corporate limits more than three dogs. This limitation shall not apply to
dogs less than four months of age. Any person wanting to keep more than three
dogs will apply to the town for a license to operate a dog kennel. Prior to the
issuing of such license, it shall be determined that the kennel would be in
compliance with all town and state regulations.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.35 NUMBER OF CATS PERMITTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep on any lot or premises within
the corporate limits more than three cats. This limitation shall not apply to
cats less than four months of age.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.36 CONFINEMENT AND RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A) No person owning or having possession, charge, custody, or control of
any animal may cause, permit, or allow the animal to stray or in any manner to
run at large upon any public street, sidewalk, or other public property or to
stray, run at large, or otherwise trespass upon the private property of
another.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to allow such animal
to be at large on any town property.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, harboring, keeping, or in
charge of any animal to fail or refuse to remove feces deposited by the animal
on any street, sidewalk, park, or other publicly owned property.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to fail or refuse to
remove feces deposited by the animal on any private property other than the
premises of the owner.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.37 POSSESSION OF ANIMALS AND STRAYS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in the town knowingly and
intentionally, unless with consent of the owner, to harbor, feed, and keep in
his or her possession by confinement, or otherwise allow to remain on his or
her property, any animal which does not belong to him or her unless he or she
notifies the county’s Animal Control within 48 hours from the time such animal
came into his or her possession.
   (B)   Any person who feeds a stray animal and/or allows the animal to stay
on his or her property for at least two days shall be legally responsible for
such animal and any violations caused by the animal.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to surrender any such
stray animal to the Police Department or the county’s Animal Control or person
duly authorized upon demand.
   (D)   The purpose of this section is to aid in rabies control and to prevent
the intentional or unintentional possession of pets belonging to other persons.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.38 IMPOUNDMENT AND RECLAIMING OF CAPTURED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any animal within the town without an owner, any animal running at
large within the town, or any animal whose owner fails to have the animal
vaccinated in accordance with the laws of the state, or an animal appearing
within the town without a rabies vaccination shall be taken by the county’s
Animal Control and confined for a period of time until reclaimed by the owner
with a pre-paid rabies voucher, adopted with a pre-paid rabies voucher, or
euthanized by the county’s Animal Control Department.
   (B)   If any animal is not redeemed by the owner within three days from the
time Animal Control takes possession of the animal, the animal shall be put up
for adoption or disposed of under the regulations set forth by this subchapter
and the state’s general statutes.
   (C)   In order for the owner to redeem an animal, such owner must first show
that the rabies vaccination tag has been procured. In addition, the owner shall
pay a penalty according to this subchapter for allowing the animal to run at
large. The fee may be adjusted in the new fiscal years in the county’s animal
fees. The owner must pay daily expenses for boarding and caring for the animal.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.39 POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS AND DANGEROUS DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for a citizen to keep a dog within the corporate limits
of the town that has been deemed potentially dangerous or dangerous by the
county’s Animal Control.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.40 INHERENTLY DANGEROUS EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   The provisions of this chapter regarding inherently dangerous exotic animals
(§
90.14) are incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.41 ENFORCEMENT.
   Primary responsibility for enforcing the provisions of this subchapter is
assigned to the county’s Animal Control Department. Municipal police
departments will assist when needed.
(Ord. passed 5-5-2008)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Penalties and remedies for §§
90.01 through
90.15 shall be as follows:
      (1)   Misdemeanor. Notwithstanding any civil penalties outlined herein,
any person violating any provision of §§
90.01 through
90.15 constitutes a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as provided under G.S.
§ 14-4 or any other applicable section for misdemeanor sentencing. Each day’s
continuing violation shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Equitable remedies. The provisions of §§
90.01 through
90.15 may be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issuing from a court
of competent jurisdiction.
      (3)   Civil penalties. In addition to other remedies for violations of §§
90.01 through
90.15, the Animal Services Manager or any person authorized by him/her may
issue to the owner or the person in possession of said animal, a citation
giving notice of the violation of this subchapter. Any such official shall be
authorized to secure the name, address, and birth date of the owner or the
person in possession of the animal in violation. Citations issued may be
delivered in person or mailed by registered or certified mail to the person
charged if he/she cannot otherwise be readily located. Any such citation shall
impose upon the owner or the person in possession a civil penalty of $100 per
animal for the first violation, $200 for the second violation, and $400 for the
third and any subsequent violation. Said penalties must be paid within 20
consecutive days to Harnett County Animal Services. In the event the owner or
the person in possession of the animal or violator does not appear in response
to the aforementioned citation, or if the applicable penalty is not paid within
the time prescribed, a criminal summons shall be issued against the violator,
owner, the person in possession of the animal in violation of this subchapter,
and upon conviction, the violator, owner, the person in possession, or the
person having custody of the animal shall be punished as the court prescribes
under division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   (1)   Penalties and remedies for §§
90.30 through
90.41 shall be in accordance with division (B) above.
      (2)    Any owner found in violation of §
90.39 will be required to release the dog to the county’s Animal Control
Department for euthanasia and will face a civil fine of $400.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2006; Ord. passed 5-5-2008; Ord. passed 6-4-2018; Ord. 2022-
25, passed 10-17-2022)
CHAPTER 91: HAZARDOUS WASTE AND MATERIALS
Section
Hazardous Waste Generally
   
91.01   Title
   
91.02   Purpose
   
91.03   Definitions
   
91.04   Advisory Board
   
91.05   Hazardous waste and low-level radioactive waste permit required
   
91.06   Application procedure for all permits except those for storage and/or
treatment on-site at point of generation
   
91.07   Application procedure for all permits for storage and/or treatment on-
site at the point of generation
   
91.08   Application and processing fees
   
91.09   Specified conditions on the permit
   
91.10   Enforcement
   
91.11   Monitoring and safety
   
91.12   Operation
   
91.13   Inspection by county
   
91.14   Copies available to public
Hazardous Materials Response Cost Recovery
   
91.30   Findings and purpose
   
91.31   Definitions
   
91.32   Hazardous substances and/or materials incidents policy
   
91.33   Liability for expense of an emergency response
   
91.34   Conflict with state or federal law
   
91.35   Nonexclusive remedy
   
91.36   Fee schedule
 
   
91.99   Penalty
HAZARDOUS WASTE GENERALLY
§ 91.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Harnett County
Hazardous Waste Management Ordinance” or “this subchapter” or “subchapter”.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1984)
§ 91.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to:
   (A)   Regulate the location, operation, and care of waste management
facilities dealing with the storage, transfer, treatment, or disposal of
hazardous and low-level radioactive waste within the county;
   (B)   Assure that the best management practices are used in handling such
waste;
   (C)   Assure that before such waste is placed into permanent or long-term
storage, the best available technology is used in treating such waste
including, but not by way of limitation, reuse, transfer and transportation,
recycling, neutralization, detoxification, incineration, and maximum volume
reduction; and
   (D)   Assure that, when these alternatives are not technologically feasible,
retrievable above-ground storage (or retrievable below-ground if such wastes
are explosive or flammable) be used in lieu of other means of disposal until
appropriate methods for recycling or detoxification of the stored wastes are
found, as directed by G.S. Chapter 130A, Article 9.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1984)
§ 91.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACUTE HAZARDOUS WASTE. The same as defined in 40 C.F.R. part 261.
   ADVISORY BOARD. Refers to the Harnett County Advisory Board as set forth in
§
91.04 of this subchapter.
   BEST AVAILABLE TECHNOLOGY. Any combination of commercially available
technologies which together serve to maximize recycling for reuse of the
hazardous or low-level radioactive waste, while rendering the unrecycled
components either to their least harmful form or to forms most amenable to
eventual recovery.
   COMMISSIONERS. The Board of County Commissioners for Harnett County.
   DISPOSAL. The discharge, deposit, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or
placing of any hazardous or low-level radioactive waste into or on any land in
such way that such waste, or any constituent thereof, may enter the environment
or be emitted into the air or discharged into any waters, including
groundwaters.
   FACILITY. All land, structures, personnel, and equipment used for the
treatment, storage of more than 90 days, or more than 30 days in the case of
acute hazardous waste, and/or disposal of hazardous or low-level radioactive
waste whether on-site or off-site.
   GENERATOR. Any person whose act or process produces low-level radioactive
waste as defined above, or hazardous waste identified or listed in 40 C.F.R.
part 261.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Solid or liquid waste, or a combination of solid and liquid
wastes, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or
infectious characteristics may: cause or significantly contribute to an
increase in mortality or an increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating
illness; or pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, or disposed of or
otherwise managed, and as defined in 40 C.F.R. part 261.
   LOW-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTE. Radioactive waste not classified as any of the
following: high-level radioactive waste; spent nuclear fuel as defined by the
U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission; transuranic waste; or byproduct material as
defined in 42 U.S.C. § 2014.
   MANAGEMENT PRACTICES. Methods of systematic collection, source separation,
storage, transfer, transportation, processing, treatment, recovery, and
disposal of hazardous or low-level radioactive wastes.
   ON-SITE. The same as defined in 40 C.F.R. part 260.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, association, trust,
estate, public or private institution, group, agency, or other entity or any
successor, subsidiary, or division thereof.
   STORAGE. Containment for a period of over 90 days (or over one month in the
case of acute hazardous waste) in such a manner as not to constitute disposal.
   TRANSFER. Handling greater than 1,000 kilograms per month of hazardous waste
and/or low-level radioactive wastes that are not generated on site or stored
over 90 days.
   TREATMENT. Any method, technique, or process including neutralization,
designed to change the physical, chemical or biological character or
composition of any hazardous or low-level radioactive waste so as to neutralize
such waste or so as to render such waste non-hazardous, safer for transport,
amenable for recovery, amenable for storage, or reduced in volume. Such term
includes any activity or processing designed to change the physical form or
chemical composition of hazardous waste or low-level radioactive waste so as to
render it non-hazardous.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1984)
§ 91.04 ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners shall appoint an Advisory Board to assist
in facilitating the purposes of this subchapter. The Board shall consist of
five members appointed by the Board of Commissioners. The Advisory Board shall
serve terms as specified in its appointments, not exceeding four years, and
shall have the duties and responsibilities specified herein and such others as
the Board of Commissioners may, from time to time, determine.
   (B)   The members of the Advisory Board shall be appointed by the Board of
Commissioners from the public at large.
   (C)   The functions and powers of the Advisory Board shall be as follows:
      (1)   To review applications for permits required herein upon request of
the Board of Commissioners;
      (2)   To carry out functions assigned by this subchapter;
      (3)   To promote safety and health in the management of hazardous and
low-level radioactive wastes; and
      (4)   To provide a forum for citizens and industry in the regulatory
process.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1984)
§ 91.05 HAZARDOUS WASTE AND LOW-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each facility shall obtain a permit to operate in the county, except
generators who store hazardous or low-level radioactive wastes on site for less
than 90 days, or acute hazardous waste for less than 30 days.
   (B)   No construction or site preparation for a new hazardous waste or low-
level radioactive waste facility shall be initiated prior to issuance of the
permit required hereunder.
   (C)   No permitted facility shall significantly change its operation,
including volume and types of wastes stored, transferred, treated, or disposed
of, without first obtaining an amended permit therefor.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1984) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 APPLICATION PROCEDURE FOR ALL PERMITS EXCEPT THOSE FOR STORAGE AND/OR
TREATMENT ON-SITE AT POINT OF GENERATION.
   (A)   An applicant for such a permit shall prepare and file a hazardous
waste permit application with the Board of Commissioners for any hazardous
waste or low-level radioactive waste facility. The applicant shall submit to
the county two copies of all information required by federal and state agencies
for the facility for which it requests a county permit at the same time such
information is submitted to the state and federal governments except facilities
already located in the county which shall file such documents when they
initiate the application process. The review procedure shall not begin, nor
shall the application be designated as complete, until such time as all
required data are submitted and the appropriate fees are paid, or suitable
arrangements for payment have been approved by the Board of Commissioners.
Where information required by divisions (B), (C), and (D) below and §
91.09 is included in documents submitted to federal and state agencies, such
information need not be restated for the county permit; however, additional
information as to how these items directly impact the county, as well as cross-
references to state and federal documents, shall be included.
   (B)   The application shall contain at least the following information:
      (1)   A description of the applicant, full information on its financial
capability, and a detailed history of all its past activities in the field of
hazardous and low-level radioactive waste management, including a synopsis of
each facility it or any subsidiary, affiliate, or parent corporation has
operated at any time within ten years next preceding the application;
      (2)   Evidence of liability insurance including environmental impairment
liability insurance to cover the proposed operation and a history of any claims
against the company at any site, including the applicant and all subsidiaries
and affiliates including the parent corporation of the applicant, within the
last ten years;
      (3)   Justification for, and anticipated benefits from, the project;
      (4)   A description of the scope of the proposed project, including a
schedule of how much and what kinds of hazardous or low-level radioactive
material the facility will accept, where the material will come from, what
pretreatment will be required of wastes unacceptable to the facility without
such pretreatment, and how long the facility is expected to operate;
      (5)   The estimated project costs, including information on the
construction costs for the facility, the yearly site operation expenses, and an
estimate of the costs for the lifetime of the project;
      (6)   The proposed method of financing the project, including
development, operation, and closure stages with information concerning
financial commitments;
      (7)   The proposed number of employees and types and positions, including
information on the training and experience required for each position, salary
ranges for each position, and safety precautions to be undertaken;
      (8)   The anticipated date to begin construction;
      (9)   The anticipated date to begin operation;
      (10)   A detailed estimate of the types and amounts of all local
government services needed each year by the facility;
      (11)   A description of emergency procedures and safety and security
precautions that will be in place at the facility; (This information should
include details on emergency assistance that will be required from the
surrounding community.)
      (12)   A description of the environmental protection measures to be taken
by the applicant to prevent contamination in and around the facility and a
description of planned monitoring systems, with an estimated annual budget for
each of these items for a period of not less than five years;
      (13)   A description of environmental protection measures to be used
during transportation of materials to and from the facility, with an estimated
annual budget for these arrangements and an estimate of the volume of material
to be transported during each year of the facility’s operation;
      (14)   A description of the site closure plan for the facility, the
anticipated date of closure, and an estimate of the site closure costs; and
      (15)   A description of anticipated need for post-closure care.
   (C)   A map or maps attached to the application shall include, but are not
limited to, the following information:
      (1)   Ownership.
         (a)   Name, address, and telephone number of legal owner, and his or
her agent, of the real estate sought to be used;
         (b)   Name, address, and telephone number of each professional person
responsible for design and for surveys;
         (c)   Description of any existing legal right(s)-of-way or easement
affecting the property; and
         (d)   Reference to existing restrictive covenants on the property, if
any.
      (2)   Description. Location of property by tax map and parcel number. The
deed book and page reference or other evidence of title of the current owner;
      (3)   Features. Each map shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The map shall be drawn to a scale of not less than 200 feet per
inch;
         (b)   A regional location or vicinity sketch map to a scale of no less
than one inch to one mile showing the relationship of the project site to the
surrounding area;
         (c)   Graphic scale, date, approximate north arrow, legend;
         (d)   The location of property in relation to adjoining property and
streets, the names of all adjacent property and streets, or the names of all
developments located within one mile of the proposed site. The name and address
of adjoining property owners according to county tax records;
         (e)   Zoning classification of proposed project and adjacent property;
         (f)   The location of all boundary lines of the property;
         (g)   The total acreage of land in the project in Chatham County and
any other county if applicable;
         (h)   The location of existing and/or platted streets, easements,
buildings, (including mobile homes), railroads, parks, cemeteries, bridges,
sewers, water mains, culverts, water wells, and gas and electric lines;
         (I)   The location of water bodies, watercourses (including sinkholes,
dry stream beds, and pond overflow streams), groundwater aquifers, springs, and
other pertinent features;
         (j)   The location and width of all existing and proposed street right
(s)-of-way and easements, and other public ways;
         (k)   The location, dimensions, and acreage of all property proposed
to be set aside for various uses on the applicant’s property;
         (l)   The location of all test wells and borings;
         (m)   The location of the 100-year flood plain, flood of record,
standard project flood, and inundation due to a dam break; and
         (n)   A geologic map shall be prepared by a competent geologist at the
same scale as the project site map showing all surface and subsurface geologic
and geo-hydrologic features and potential geologic hazards that are pertinent
to determining the desirability of granting a permit. Said map shall include,
but not be limited to:
            1.   The location of faults, dikes, and sills;
            2.   The location, attitude, and trend of joints and fractures;
            3.   The location of present and former borrow pits mines, shaft
adits, and quarries;
            4.   Identification and location of any mineral resources
potentially made non-recoverable by reference to technology then economically
feasible, by the proposed facility;
            5.   Identification of bedrock type and strike and dip of any
mappable bedding;
            6.   The depth and degree of weathering (saprolite);
            7.   Identification and location of clay as to thickness, type, and
permeability; and/or
            8.   The location of the water table as to approximate depth,
gradient, and surface configuration.
      (4)   Topographic map. A topographic map with contour interval not more
than five feet, at the same scale as the project site map. The date and method
of preparing the topographic survey shall be stated. This map shall also show:
         (a)   The location of all boundary lines of the property;
         (b)   The approximate location of water bodies, watercourses,
(including sinkholes, dry stream beds, and pond overflow streams), all land
within the 100-year flood plain, and other pertinent features;
         (c)   The approximate location of all test wells and borings; and
         (d)   The location of all water wells and springs, whether used or
unused, of whatever construction, on the property and within 1,000 feet of the
perimeter of the property.
      (5)   Transportation map. A map showing proposed transportation routes to
and from the proposed facility, including the location of schools, emergency,
law enforcement, and hospital facilities in the county and each adjoining
county through which a transportation route passes. An estimate of the volume
of material to be transported over each route during a specific time frame
shall also be given.
   (D)   Because each facility is unique, the Board of Commissioners may
require additional information including, but not limited to, that mentioned
below to complete the application:
      (1)   Contaminant flow to water table including leachate monitoring,
collecting and withdrawal systems, clay and synthetic liners, (extra thickness,
multiple liners), spill prevention and containment measures;
      (2)   Contaminant movement with groundwater, including groundwater
monitoring systems at the site and in potentially affected areas; subsurface
slurry wall barriers’ controls on other groundwater withdrawals in area;
      (3)   Predictability of contaminant movement, based on preconstruction
soil borings and groundwater modeling;
      (4)   Potential affect on surface waters; planned collection systems for
surface water runoff; planned exclusion systems for surface water run-on;
      (5)   Potential affect on aquifers; planned provisions for alternate
water supply systems and facilities for immediate pumping and treatment of
contaminated water;
      (6)   Potential affect on public water supplies; planned runoff
collection and treatment and provisions for alternate supply systems;
      (7)   Possibility of site flooding; planned special facility design,
special control dikes, and buffer zone setback in area of standard project
flood area;
      (8)   Potential human exposure to treated wastewater, including planned
safety procedures, clothing, instruction, and practice for employees, planned
oversized or redundant treatment capacity, effluent monitoring, and automatic
shutdown systems;
      (9)   Nature and predictability of pollution movement, including planned
stack height for incinerators, with continuous stack and plume monitoring and
recording until emission levels are predictable; planned segregation of
incompatible wastes;
      (10)   Potential human exposure to air pollution, including planned
pollution control equipment, special combustion monitoring and automatic
shutdown systems and special air monitoring arrangements;
      (11)   Safety of transportation route, including evacuation and rerouting
plans, planned training of emergency fire and medical personnel and local
institutional support arrangements; planned training and certification of truck
drivers and other waste handling personnel and truck safety features;
      (12)   Potential for noise impact, including limitations on hours for
delivery and muffler installation;
      (13)   Potential for impact on environmentally significant lands, planned
bonding, insurance, financial responsibility, and monitoring;
      (14)   Proximity to residential areas or sensitive sites, including
planned purchase of buffer zones on adjacent lands, reduction in facility size,
and distance limitation between similar facilities;
      (15)   Compatibility with existing land uses, including orientation and
layout of site plans, planned buffer zone setback from use area to facility
owner’s exterior property line, referred to as minimum interior buffer setback;
planned aesthetic design of facility, and landscaping;
      (16)   Compatibility with land use plans;
      (17)   Impact on existing or future economic activity, including
predicted tax base expansion and privilege license tax;
      (18)   Potential for earthquake activity, including special facility
design and evacuation plans to deal with such occurrences; and
      (19)   Post-use problems, including bonding, liability, financial
responsibility and monitoring community and environmental health.
   (E)   A designee of the Board of Commissioners shall compile copies of all
reports, applications, minutes of Advisory Board meetings, reports by
consultants, and similar material. These shall be placed in one location,
readily available to the public.
   (F)   (1)   Upon receipt of an application submitted pursuant to this
section the Board of Commissioners may deny the same or refer it to the
Advisory Board. Upon receipt of an application referred to it by the Board of
Commissioners, the Advisory Board shall, within 45 days, schedule, advertise in
local newspapers, and conduct a public meeting. At this meeting, the applicant
shall present a summary of the application, and the public shall have the
opportunity to raise questions and concerns. Relevant written and oral
questions may be submitted for the applicant’s response during the meeting.
      (2)   Each application shall be analyzed by the county, and if desirable,
by such consultants as are directed by the Board of Commissioners. Said
analysis shall be completed within 120 days of the date the application is
determined to be complete unless said time is extended by the Board of
Commissioners. The applicant may request the Board of Commissioners to grant
additional time for responding to staff and consultant requests for additional
information on a completed application.
      (3)   County staff and each consultant shall make interim reports on the
progress of their analysis of the application to the Advisory Board at its
meetings, and they shall make a final report within 30 days of the completion
of the analysis.
   (G)   Upon receipt of the final report, the Board of Commissioners shall
call a public hearing for public comment on the completed application along
with the analysis by the county staff and consultants. The purpose of this
hearing shall be for public review of the application. The staff shall give
notice by regular mail of the time and place of the hearing to the owner and
adjacent property owners depicted upon applicant’s map. Said notice shall be
mailed not less than 14 days prior to the hearing. Notice of the hearing shall
be posted by applicant on the proposed facility property and on each and every
roadway of access not less than 14 days prior to the date of hearing. Said
posted notices shall be of intervals of not greater than 1,500 feet. All such
notices shall be posted as directed by the county’s designee. Notice shall also
be placed by the applicant in a newspaper of general circulation in the county
not less than 14 days prior to the hearing.
   (H)   Within 45 days after receipt of the final analysis, completed
application, and public comment, the Advisory Board shall make a recommendation
to the Board of Commissioners in open session whether to approve the
application, deny it, or approve it with modifications. However, before making
a recommendation to the Board of Commissioners to approve the proposal or
approve it with modifications, the Advisory Board shall make the following
determinations:
      (1)   That the construction and operation of the facility will not pose
an unreasonable health or environmental risk to the surrounding locality;
      (2)   That the applicant (or facility operator) has the capability and
financial resources to construct, operate, and maintain the facility;
      (3)   That the applicant or operator has taken or consented in writing to
take any and all reasonable measures to comply with applicable federal, state,
and local regulations and ordinances;
      (4)   That the applicant’s plan represents the best available technology
for handling the wastes for which the applicant will be permitted; and
      (5)   That the facility operator has demonstrated financial capabilities
for site operations and site closure.
   (I)   The Board of Commissioners shall review the recommendation of the
Advisory Board and make its final determination in writing within 45 days of
receipt of the recommendation of the Advisory Board or from the date of the
permit decision by state or federal agencies, whichever is latest. The Board of
Commissioners shall make the findings listed in division (H) above before
approving or conditionally approving the application. If the Board of
Commissioners conditionally approve the application, the applicant shall submit
a written agreement to all conditions specified in such approval within 60 days
from the date of the approval or such approval shall be invalid.
   (J)   A permit shall be valid for no more than 18 months from the date it is
granted by the Board of Commissioners unless the applicant begins construction
of the facility within said period and continues to construct or operate the
facility according to specified conditions. If a permit becomes invalid for
reasons outlined in this division (J) and the applicant wishes to construct or
operate the facility, it shall follow the procedures set forth in this section
or §
91.07 and pay the filing fee specified in §
91.08.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1984) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 APPLICATION PROCEDURE FOR ALL PERMITS FOR STORAGE AND/OR TREATMENT ON-
SITE AT THE POINT OF GENERATION.
   (A)   Application for an on-site storage or treatment permit shall be made
by submitting to the Board of Commissioners a copy of all information submitted
for state and federal permits.
   (B)   Hazardous or low-level radioactive waste generators filing permit
applications to store or treat wastes on-site at the point of generation shall
submit to the Board of Commissioners an application that includes the
following:
      (1)   A summary of all spills at the site occurring within the last ten
years and the resultant cleanup operation;
      (2)   A detailed description of the company’s in-house monitoring and
safety programs; and
      (3)   Any additional information the Board of Commissioners may deem
relevant to assessing the facility’s impact on the health and welfare of the
county’s citizens.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners, or the Advisory Board, if so directed by
the Board of Commissioners, shall hold a public hearing to consider the
application within 45 days of receipt, after notice, as specified in §
91.06(G). In all cases where the hearing is held by the Advisory Board, it
shall recommend to the Board of Commissioners one of the following courses of
action within 30 days of the public hearing:
      (1)   To grant a permit on the basis of the information submitted;
      (2)   To deny a permit on the basis of the information submitted;
      (3)   To grant the permit with certain additional conditions; or
      (4)   To seek further information before taking final action either from
the company requesting the permit or from independent consultants selected by
the Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   If the Board of Commissioners select the option in division (C)(4)
above, the information sought shall be presented to the Advisory Board at a
public hearing within 60 days, and the Advisory Board shall make its
recommendation to the Board of Commissioners within 30 days of such public
hearing. The Board of Commissioners shall, in such cases, take action within 30
days of receiving this recommendation or within 30 days of final action on the
state or federal permit, whichever is latest.
   (E)   In cases where the Board of Commissioners hold a hearing without
reference to the Advisory Board, it shall take action within 30 days of the
public hearing unless it requires additional information, in which case action
shall be taken within 30 days of receipt of such information or within 30 days
of state or federal action, whichever is later.
   (F)   Existing industries shall apply for this permit at such time as they
apply for a final permit under current federal regulations.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1984)
§ 91.08 APPLICATION AND PROCESSING FEES.
   (A)   All applicants requesting a hazardous or low-level radioactive waste
disposal permit shall pay an application processing fee to the county. The
application processing fee shall be used to reimburse the county for the costs
of assessing the environmental and economic impacts of the facility and
administration of the applications, including the verification of information
contained in the application. These costs may include securing the services of
professional consultants on a contract basis.
   (B)   No action shall be taken on a permit application until the county has
received payment of the initial application processing fee in an amount to be
determined by the type of facility as follows:
      (1)   On-site storage: $500;
      (2)   On-site storage and treatment: $500;
      (3)   Transfer facilities: $500;
      (4)   Treatment facilities: $50,000; and
      (5)   Land disposal facilities: $50,000.
   (C)   In the event that the county incurs costs in processing an application
which exceed the initial application processing fee, then the county shall bill
the applicant, as additional application processing fees, for the additional
costs so incurred, and such fees shall be payable by the applicant upon billing
by the county. No application shall be approved except after payment of the
additional costs so billed.
   (D)   Any portion of an initial application processing fee which is in
excess of the costs incurred by the county in processing the application shall
be refunded to the applicant within 30 days of final action on the application.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1984)
§ 91.09 SPECIFIED CONDITIONS ON THE PERMIT.
   (A)   The Advisory Board may recommend, and the Board of Commissioners may
impose, specified conditions on issuing a permit, as will, in its opinion,
assure that the facility in its proposed location will meet the findings
required in §
91.06(H). All such specified conditions shall be entered in the minutes of the
meeting at which the permit is issued. All specified conditions shall run with
the permit and shall be binding on the original applicants, their heirs,
successors, and assigns, as long as the land is used for the permitted use. Any
noncompliance with the specified conditions shall invalidate the permit and
constitute violation of this subchapter. The factors that shall be addressed
for inclusion of specified conditions shall include, but not be limited to,
rows 1 through 20 in the table below. Possible conditions are listed to the
right of the factor considered but only by way of example and not by way of
limitation.
Row Factors Possible Conditions
Row Factors         Possible Conditions
    Contaminant     Leachate monitoring, collection, and withdrawal systems
1   flow period to  Clay and synthetic liners; extra thickness, multiple liner
    water table     Spill prevention and containment measures
    Contaminant     Groundwater monitoring systems at site and in potentially affected areas
2   movement with   Subsurface slurry wall barriers
    groundwater     Controls on groundwater withdrawals in area
    Predictability
3   of contaminant  Additional preconstruction soil borings and groundwater modeling
    movement
    Potential       Collection systems for surface water runoff
4   effect on       Liability insurance
    surface water
                    Provision of alternate water supply system
                    Liability insurance
    Potential       County monitoring and inspection at applicant’s expense, both on site and in
5   effect on       potentially affected areas
    aquifer         County right of access to monitoring equipment and sites by easements
                    Contingency plan for sudden or non-sudden spills and an impact of clean-up on
                    the environment
                    Liability insurance
    Potential       Special runoff collection and treatment
6   effect on
    public water    Provision of alternate water supply system
    supplies
                    Special facility design
7   Possibility of  Special control dikes
    site flooding   Special liability insurance
                    Buffer zone setback in area of standard project flood area
    Potential human Oversized or redundant treatment capacity
8   exposure to     Effluent monitoring and automatic shutdown systems
    treated         Liability insurance
    wastewater
    Nature and      Increased stack height
9   predictability
    of pollutant    Modeling of groundwater movement
    movement
    Potential human Additional, oversized, or redundant pollution control equipment
10  exposure to air Increased stack heights
    pollution       Special combustion monitoring and automatic shutdown systems
                    Special air monitoring arrangement
                    Evacuation plans and training
    Safety of       Transportation re-routing
11  transportation  Access road construction
    route           Training of emergency fire and medical personnel
                    Truck safety features
    Distance
    between
12  sensitive sites Relocation of schools for other sensitive facilities
    and
    transportation
    route
13  Potential for   Limitation on hours for delivery
    noise impact    Muffler installation
    Potential for
    impact on
14  environmentally Monitoring and protection of environmentally significant lands
    significant
    lands
    Proximity to    Purchase of buffer zones on adjacent lands
15  residential     Reduction or limitation in facility size
    areas or        Distance limitation between similar facilities
    sensitive sites
                    Orientation and layout of site plans
    Compatibility   Buffer zone setback from use area to facility owner’s exterior property line
16  with existing   referred to as a minimum interior buffer setback
    land uses       Aesthetic design of facility and landscaping
                    Volume reduction requirements
                    Regular reporting of types and volume of waste handled
    Compatibility
17  with land use
    plans
    Potential
18  effect on
    property value
    Impact on       Tax base expansion
19  existing or
    future economic Privilege license tax
    activity
    Potential for   Special facility design
20  earthquake      Evacuation plans
    activity
21  Inspection and  Employees and agents of the county shall have the right at any time to go on
    monitoring      the premises for purposes of inspection and monitoring
 
   (B)   (1)   The Board of Commissioners may restrict or limit the amounts and
types of wastes entering the proposed site, may limit or restrict the type of
treatment, handling, and disposal activities, or may require additional
treatment or handling of waste before entering, leaving, or being disposed of
on the site.
      (2)   In addition to conditions regarding the appropriateness of the
proposed waste management scheme to the nature of the waste handled, certain
other conditions must be met by the proposed waste management facility. These
include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Low-level radioactive waste and hazardous waste shall not be
disposed of at the same facility;
         (b)   No two waste management facilities, either hazardous or low-
level radioactive waste management facilities, shall adjoin, and no more than
one facility of either type shall be located per township nor shall a facility
be located within ten miles of a public water supply, school, hospital, nursing
home, or other facility, with the exception of on-site storage and treatment at
the point of generation; and/or
         (c)   All wastes, whether hazardous or low-level radioactive, placed
into any form of storage shall be retrievable and identifiable using best
management practices.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1984) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   General. Pursuant to the power vested in the Board of Commissioners by
G.S. §§ 153A-121, 153A-128, and 153A-136, the county, through its responsible
officers, shall enforce the provisions of this subchapter to ensure and
safeguard the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (B)   Permit revocation. For any facility operator who has committed a
violation, as defined in §
91.99(B)(1), or for whom the continued operation of the facility poses an
unreasonable hazard to the health and welfare of the public, the Advisory Board
shall be empowered to recommend to the Board of Commissioners revocation of its
permit. No such recommendation shall be made, however, except after a public
meeting conducted by the Advisory Board upon no less than 14 days’ written
notice to the facility operator. Such hearing shall be publicized in advance
according to the procedure in §
91.06(G). At such hearing, the facility operator may present evidence to the
Advisory Board, in mitigation, to demonstrate subsequent remedial action and
the like. If the Advisory Board recommends that the permit be revoked, it shall
so report to the Board of Commissioners in writing within ten days of the
public meeting held by it. Within ten days of the receipt of the
recommendation, the Board of Commissioners shall hold a public hearing
following which it shall determine whether to revoke the permit. The Board of
Commissioners may continue the permit upon finding that:
      (1)   The facility operator has made a good faith effort to comply with
the permit and to remedy violations;
      (2)   Continuation of the permit would not endanger the public health and
welfare; and
      (3)   The facility operator has proposed a plan to remedy any other
hazardous conditions on the facility site as expeditiously as possible.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1984) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 MONITORING AND SAFETY.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to supplement and complete the
monitoring and safety activities of the federal and state governments. The
Board of Commissioners recognize the primary responsibility of the federal and
state governments in this area. However, they also recognize that
appropriations and manpower to fulfill this responsibility have often been
inadequate, and that county responsibility is thereafter necessary and lawful.
The duties described herein shall begin upon receipt of a permit application.
   (B)   Duties of the Health Department (or the Commissioners’ designee,
hereafter referred to as the “Health Department”).
      (1)   The Health Department is directed to design a monitoring and safety
program for any facility requesting a permit from the county.
      (2)   The program shall take into account the nature of the facility and
the monitoring activities of state and federal agencies and shall be designed
to supplement and complete those activities as well as to ensure that they are
being carried out in a thorough and responsible manner.
      (3)   The program shall be submitted to the Advisory Board for a
recommendation and to the Board of Commissioners for approval.
      (4)   On approval, the Board of Commissioners shall designate the Health
Department or some other agency as responsible for carrying out the program.
   (C)   The program may include the following duties as appropriate:
      (1)   To monitor the air, surface water, and groundwater during the
operation of the facility(s);
      (2)   To monitor soil, plant, microbial, viral, and animal samples during
the operation of the facility(s);
      (3)   To conduct human health surveys and monitoring in the area around
the facility(s) including statistical surveys, blood samples, and other surveys
which may be necessary to determine the effect of exposure and/or to trace any
accidental discharges of hazardous or low-level radioactive waste;
      (4)   To verify the content of shipments and storage of hazardous or low-
level radioactive waste against shipping manifests and other records;
      (5)   To inspect the interiors of structures located on the waste
facility site(s) for hazardous, unhealthy, or otherwise unlawful conditions;
      (6)   To inspect and take samples within the site boundaries of any
hazardous or low-level waste facility(s) in the county;
      (7)   To verify, by laboratory analysis, that samples taken by facility
operators are in fact what they are claimed to be, and to check the accuracy of
any laboratory facilities within the county which regularly test hazardous or
low-level radioactive waste samples;
      (8)   To prepare an emergency response plan, and prepare adequate
emergency medical equipment and personnel to handle emergencies arising out of
the transportation, storage, treatment, or disposal of hazardous or low-level
radioactive waste in the county, to the extent that such measures are not
otherwise undertaken by the facility operator(s) or the state and federal
governments;
      (9)   To monitor traffic flows near facilities on approach routes within
the county, and design measures to minimize traffic disruption and accidents,
with special consideration for the routing of school buses and the safety of
the county’s school children; and
      (10)   To perform such other duties as the Board of Commissioners direct
from time to time to safeguard the public health and welfare.
   (D)   The county’s Finance Officer shall maintain a depository for all bonds
and insurance policies required by this subchapter.
   (E)   The county’s Attorney, in addition to duties provided by statute,
shall provide the Board of Commissioners with advice on legal matters and
assistance with drafting, and review bonds posted.
   (F)   The Board of Commissioners shall direct responsible officials of the
county to undertake such other monitoring and safety actions as may be required
by this and other sections of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1984)
§ 91.12 OPERATION.
   (A)   Disposal request.
      (1)   All persons who operate facilities to handle, treat, transfer,
store, or dispose of hazardous or low-level radioactive waste in the county,
other than on-site storage and/or treatment at the point of generation, must
provide the county or its designee a written disposal request for each waste
type by generator and receive approval of the same for all wastes proposed to
be brought to the site. Such approval shall be valid for a period of time
stated therein, not exceeding 30 days. This request must detail the generator’s
efforts to reuse, recycle, reduce in volume, detoxify, neutralize, incinerate,
or appropriately dispose of the waste at the point of generation, or subsequent
efforts at some other waste management facility, before shipment to the county
or within the county to such facilities. Such persons must also specify how
treatment, handling or disposal in the county employs best available technology
for the disposal of such waste. The request must also include information
regarding the condition and contents of the shipment, and assurance of proper
visible labeling of acute hazardous wastes, on the vehicle, before the shipment
enters the county.
      (2)   The following information shall also be submitted in writing with
each disposal request:
         (a)   Name, location, and business of the waste generator and contact
person at the generator;
         (b)   Process in which waste was generated and marketable products
arising from that process;
         (c)   Volume, chemical, and physical nature of waste;
         (d)   Manner in which waste is packaged for shipment; and
         (e)   Proposed treatment and disposal procedure.
      (3)   The disposal request shall contain written confirmation of
divisions (A)(2)(a) through (A)(2)(d) above from the waste generator. A
separate request must be made for each waste type by generator. The county will
submit a written response to the applicant no later than 30 days following
receipt of a request, however, a request is not complete until the county has
received all information necessary to arrive at an informed decision. The
facility operator may request a hearing before the Board of Commissioners to
challenge the decision of the county. The Board of Commissioners shall schedule
a public hearing within ten days to hear such challenge. The facility operator
shall have the burden of proof in any such hearing. No waste shall be received
by any facility in the county until approval, as above set forth, has been
received.
      (4)   All incoming waste must be stored on the facility site, in an area
utilizing best management practices for the proper storage of such wastes,
while laboratory analysis is being performed until such analysis is completed.
The Health Department may hire or designate a consultant, who may be a chemist
or radiation specialist, qualified to sample wastes at the gate to the facility
and to visually inspect the truck, the manifest forms, and a copy of the
disposal request and its approval and the condition of the waste and its
containers before the waste enters the facility. No waste may be otherwise
handled, treated, or disposed of on-site until the laboratory analysis is
complete and the consultant verifies in writing to the site manager that the
shipment may be processed.
   (B)   Management practices orders.
      (1)   The Advisory Board as described in division (A) above, shall keep
abreast of developments in waste management technology and developing
management practices. If the Advisory Board discovers a new management practice
not currently in use at facilities within the county covered by this
subchapter, which could be employed to recycle, reuse, neutralize, detoxify,
incinerate, or reduce the volume of hazardous or low-level radioactive waste
generated, stored, disposed, or transferred in the county, it shall prepare a
report to that effect. It shall include in the report a summary of the benefits
and costs of the practice, the wastes affected by the practice, and a proposal
for implementing it at facilities within the county. It shall then submit the
report to all affected facility operators within the county. The facility
operator(s) shall reply in writing to the Advisory Board within 45 days,
specifying plans to implement the practice, or reasons why the facility
operator(s) believe(s) the practice should not be implemented.
      (2)   If, after the exchange of reports, the Advisory Board finds that
the practice should be implemented at facilities in the county, it shall
prepare a report and proposed order to that effect and submit them to the Board
of Commissioners. Copies of any such report and proposed order shall
simultaneously be forwarded to each facility operator within the county. Unless
written objections thereto are filed with the Board of Commissioners within 30
days from the date such reports and proposed orders were forwarded to the
operators, the Board of Commissioners may approve and issue such order in the
proposed order or in some other form. Upon receipt of written objections,
timely filed, the Board of Commissioners shall schedule and hold a public
hearing within 30 days of expiration of time for filing objections. Notice of
said hearing shall be as set forth in §
91.06(G). At said hearing, the Advisory Board and the facility operators
objecting shall present their cases, and the facility operators shall be
assigned the burden of proof. The Board of Commissioners, after said hearing,
may approve and issue the proposed order, modify and issue the proposed order,
deny issuance of the proposed order, or remit the matter to the Advisory Board
for further study.
   (C)   Other duties. The Board of Commissioners shall direct responsible
officials of the county to undertake such other duties as may be required by
this or other sections of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1984) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.13 INSPECTION BY COUNTY.
   Any facility holding a permit under this subchapter shall be subject to
inspection by a representative of the county at any time it is in operation or
has any personnel present.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1984) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.14 COPIES AVAILABLE TO PUBLIC.
   The county shall make available to the public copies of any application
filed pursuant to this subchapter as well as any other.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1984)
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS RESPONSE COST RECOVERY
§ 91.30 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   The county finds that a potential exists for responses to incidents
involving the release or threatened release of hazardous substances and/or
materials. Such incidents create a great likelihood of personal injury or
property damage. The control and abatement of such incidents places a
significant financial and operational burden upon the fire departments, rescue
and emergency medical services, along with other department support resources.
The county finds that it is necessary to adopt an ordinance to establish the
liability for such incidents and to establish a policy and methods which will
allow the fire department to seek recovery of the departments costs associated
with emergency responses to hazardous substance and/or materials incidents.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2017)
§ 91.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPRESSED GAS. Any material regulated as a compressed gas by the United
States Department of Transportation through regulations found in 49 C.F.R. §
173.300.
   COUNTY. Any and all county departments, agencies and contract agencies of
the county, including but not limited to local fire departments which maintain
a contract with the county for emergency services.
   EMERGENCY RESPONSE. The providing, sending and/or utilizing of firefighting,
emergency medical and rescue services by a fire department, or by a private
industrial entity, corporation or other assisting government agency operating
at the request or direction of the county, for an incident resulting in a
hazardous substances and/or materials release or threatened release or the
clean up or abatement of same.
   EXPENSES OF AN EMERGENCY RESPONSE. The direct and reasonable costs incurred
by the fire department, or by a private person, corporation or other assisting
government agency, which is operating at the request or direction of the
county, when making an emergency response to the hazardous substances and/or
materials incident, including the costs of providing firefighting, rescue
services, emergency medical services, containment storage, clean up and
abatement of all hazardous conditions at the scene of the incident. The costs
further includes all salaries and wages of fire department personnel responding
to the incident, salaries and wages of county personnel engaged in the
investigation, supervision and report preparation regarding said incident, all
salaries and wages of personnel of assisting government agencies operating at
the request or direction of the county, and all costs connected with the
administration of the incident relating to any prosecution of the person(s)
responsible, including those relating to the production and appearance of
witnesses at any court proceedings in relation thereto. Costs shall also
include such items as disposable materials and supplies used during the
response to said incident, rental or leasing of equipment used for the specific
response, replacement of equipment which is contaminated beyond reuse or repair
during the response to said incident, special technical services and laboratory
cost, and services and supplies purchased for any specific evacuation relating
to said incident.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES and/or MATERIALS. Include but are not limited to a
chemical that is a combustible liquid, a flammable gas, explosives, flammables,
oxidizing material, pyrophoric, unstable reactive or water reactive,
radioactive materials, petroleum, petroleum products or gases, poisons and
shall include all those materials and amounts that are designated to require
Regional Response Hazmat Team (RRT) response.
   OWNER. Any person having a vested or contingent interest in the premises,
real property, personal property, container or vehicle involved in the
hazardous substances and/or materials incident, including but not limited to
any duly authorized agent or attorney, purchaser, devisee or fiduciary of said
person having said vested or contingent interest.
   OXIDIZING MATERIAL . Any material regulated as an oxidizing material by the
United States Department of Transportation through regulations found in 49
C.F.R. § 173.151.
   PERSON. Individuals, firms, joint ventures, partnerships, corporations,
clubs and all associations or organizations of natural persons, either
incorporated or unincorporated, howsoever operating or named, and whether
acting by themselves or by a servant, contractor, employee, agent or fiduciary,
and includes all legal representatives, heirs, successors and assignees
thereof.
   POISON. Any liquid or gas that is life threatening when mixed with air in
small amounts and shall also include all those materials regulated as poison
class A by the United States Department of Transportation through regulations
found in 49 C.F.R. § 173.326.
   PREMISES. Any lot or parcel of land.
   RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL. Any material required by the United States Department
of Transportation to have Type A packaging or other special protection or
closed transport vehicles, under regulations found in 49 C.F.R. § 173.425.
   RELEASE. Any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying,
discharging, injecting, escaping, leaching, dumping or disposing of a hazardous
substance or material into the environment, or the abandonment or disposing of
barrels, containers or other closed receptacles containing a hazardous
substance.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. The owner, operator, occupant or other person responsible
for the operation, maintenance and/or condition of any building, premises,
property or vehicle where an incident arises which involves the release or
threatened release of hazardous substances and/or materials on or about said
building, premises, property and/or vehicle.
   THREATENED RELEASE. Any imminent or impending event potentially causing but
not resulting in a release which causes the county to undertake emergency
response.
   VEHICLE. Any mode which is used as an instrument of conveyance, including
but not limited to motor vehicles, railroads, boats, aircraft and the like.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2017)
§ 91.32 HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND/OR MATERIALS INCIDENTS POLICY.
   (A)   In the event that county employees or contracted agencies of the
county are dispatched to a hazardous substances and/or materials incident, the
county employee and/or contract agency in charge shall notify the responsible
parties, including appropriate state, local and federal agencies, as soon as
possible. County personnel shall make efforts to limit the county’s action to
those necessary to address dangers from fire or the imminent threat of fire or
the imminent threat from any hazardous substances or materials, and necessary
evacuation of affected persons.
   (B)   Except for procedures necessitated by fire or the imminent threat of
fire resulting from a hazardous substances or materials incident, county
officials are not authorized to incur any obligations, financial or otherwise,
to the county in regards to the mitigation of impacts resulting from a
hazardous substances and/or materials incident.
   (C)   All county personnel shall take appropriate steps for a hazardous
substances and/or materials response that conform to their level of training
and as appropriate to the supplies and equipment to them, in accordance with
established protocols and procedures.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2017)
§ 91.33 LIABILITY FOR EXPENSE OF AN EMERGENCY RESPONSE.
   (A)   Responsible party. The responsible party shall be required to
reimburse the county or any contract agency for the county for all costs and
expenses of an emergency response to said hazardous substances and/or materials
incident.
   (B)   Charge against person. The expense of an emergency response shall be a
charge imposed upon the responsible party under this subchapter. The charge
constitutes a debt of that responsible party and is collectable by the county
in the same manner as an obligation under contract, express or implied.
   (C)   Cost recovery schedule. The County Board of Commissioners may by
resolution adopt a schedule of the costs included within the expense of an
emergency response. This schedule shall be available at the County Clerk of
Court’s office for inspection by the public during regular office hours.
   (D)   Billing. The county may within ten days of receiving itemized costs,
or any part thereof, incurred for an emergency response, submit a bill for
these costs by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested or
personal service to the person liable for the expenses as enumerated under this
subchapter. The bill(s) shall require full payment within 30 days from the date
of mailing or service of said bill upon the responsible person.
   (E)   Contract agency billing. Contract agencies, such as fire departments
shall conduct all of their billing and recovery actions under their agencies
financial and equipment procurement processes.
   (F)   Failure to pay; procedure to recover costs. Any failure by the person
described in this subchapter as liable or responsible for expenses of an
emergency response to pay said bill within 30 days of mailing or service of the
bill shall constitute a default on said bill. In case of default, the county
shall have the right and power to add all response costs to the tax roll of
such property involved in the hazardous substances and/or materials incident,
and to levy and collect such costs in the same manner as provided for the levy
and collection of real property taxes against said property or premises. The
county shall also have the right to bring action in a court of competent
jurisdiction to collect said costs if the county deems such action to be
necessary.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2017)
§ 91.34 CONFLICT WITH STATE OR FEDERAL LAW.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to conflict with state or
federal laws requiring persons responsible for or causing a release or
threatened release from engaging in remediation activities or paying the cost
thereof, or both.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2017)
§ 91.35 NONEXCLUSIVE REMEDY.
   The remedies provided by this subchapter shall be in addition to any other
remedies available in equity or at law and such penalties as provided by law or
ordinance.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2017)
§ 91.36 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The fee schedule will update based on the F.E.M.A. cost recovery schedule
revisions.
Hazardous Materials Cost Recovery Schedule
Description Cost Rate
Hazardous Materials Cost Recovery Schedule
Description                                 Cost Rate
Aerial device with personnel                $220 per hour
Ambulance                                   $80 per hour
Emergency management vehicle with personnel $100 per hour
Engine with personnel                       $160 per hour
Equipment damage                            Based on repair costs
Heavy rescue with personnel                 $160 per hour
Materials used                              Replacement cost + shipping costs
Support vehicle (service, brush) with       $120 per hour
personnel
Tanker with personnel                       $160 per hour
Footnotes:
1)   Ambulance is based on standby for emergency responders
2)   Rates based on 2015 F.E.M.A. reimbursement schedule rates
3)   Personnel rates based on $20 per hour per responder
4)   Minimum of one hour but billed in 15-minute increments after the first
hour
 
(Ord. passed 3-20-2017)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Violation. Any non-compliance with conditions of a county permit
or operation of a facility without a permit, any release of hazardous or low-
level radioactive waste in amounts sufficient to constitute a hazard to the
public health and safety, any non-compliance with the procedural requirements
of §§
91.01 through 91.13 or refusal to permit county officials designated under §§
91.01 through 91.13 to enter buildings, structures, enclosed areas, or other
areas in the performance of their lawful duties, any refusal to pay taxes and
fees as provided for by §§
91.01 through 91.13, and any failure to provide information or apply for
amendment to permit(s) as may be required by §§
91.01 through 91.13 upon proper notice shall be a misdemeanor, which may be
punished as indicated in G.S. Chapter 14.
      (2)   Every day a separate violation. Each day of violation of §§
91.01 through 91.13 shall constitute a separate offense.
      (3)   Injunctions. The county may seek injunctions in any court of
competent jurisdiction, when the operation of a hazardous or low-level
radioactive waste facility is, in the judgment of the Health Department,
creating an imminent hazard to the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
The county may also seek any other appropriate legal or equitable relief that
it deems necessary or appropriate to ensure the public health and welfare.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1984)
CHAPTER 92: NOISE
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Title
   
92.02   Purpose
   
92.03   Definitions
   
92.04   Findings
   
92.05   Authority and enactment
   
92.06   Jurisdiction
   
92.07   Administration
   
92.08   Conflict with other laws
   
92.09   Amendment
   
92.10   Complaint procedure and enforcement
Limitations and Prohibitions
   
92.25   General prohibition
   
92.26   Loud and unreasonable noise
   
92.27   Noises expressly prohibited
   
92.28   Exceptions
   
92.29   Permissible noise level limits
   
92.30   Methods of noise level measurement
   
92.31   Data documentation and recordation
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Harnett County Noise
Ordinance” (hereinafter referred to as “this chapter” or “chapter”).
(Ord. passed 6-17-2013)
§ 92.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect, preserve, and promote the health,
safety, welfare, comfort, and prosperity of the citizens of the county through
regulation of the production and emission of noises or amplified speech, music,
or other sounds that tend to annoy, disturb, or frighten the county residents.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2013)
§ 92.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “A” WEIGHTING SCALE. The sound pressure level, in decibels, as measured with
the sound level meter using the “A” weighted network scale. The standard unit
notation is dB(A).
   dB(A). The sound level in decibels, determined by the “A” weighting scale of
a standard sound level meter having characteristics defined by the American
National Standards Institute, Publication ANSI, 1.4-1983, for a type 2
instrument.
   DECIBEL (dB). A unit of measure, on a logarithmic scale, of the ratio of the
magnitude of a particular sound measure to a standard reference pressure.
   NOISE. An unwanted or disturbing sound.
   ORDINARY SENSIBILITIES. To have normal bodily faculties of perception or
feeling without the aid or assistance of a mechanical or external device.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE. Any sound that can be detected by a person using his or her
unaided hearing faculties.
   SOUND LEVEL. In decibels, a weighted sound pressure level determined by the
use of a sound level meter whose characteristics and frequency weightings are
specified in ANSI standards.
   SOUND LEVEL METER. An instrument which includes a microphone, amplifier, RMS
detector, integrator of time average, output meter, and weighting network used
to measure sound pressure levels.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2013)
§ 92.04 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The county finds that inadequately controlled noise offers serious
hazards to the public health, safety, and welfare, and a source of annoyance to
the population of the county. Unreasonably loud and disturbing noise tends to
degrade the environment to a degree that:
      (1)   Is harmful to the health, welfare, and safety of the county
inhabitants and visitors;
      (2)   Interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and property;
      (3)   Interferes with the well-being, tranquility, and privacy of the
home; and
      (4)   Both causes and aggravates health problems.
   (B)   Both the effective control and elimination of unreasonably loud and
disturbing noise is essential to the health and welfare of the county’s
inhabitants and visitors, and to the conduct of the normal pursuits of life,
including recreation, work, and communication.
   (C)   The use of sound amplification equipment creates loud and disturbing
noise that may, in a particular manner, and at a particular time and place,
substantially and unreasonably invade the privacy, peace, and freedom of
inhabitants of, and the visitors to the county.
   (D)   Certain short-term easing of noise restrictions is essential to allow
the construction and maintenance of structures, infrastructure, and other
elements necessary for the physical and commercial vitality of the county.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2013)
§ 92.05 AUTHORITY AND ENACTMENT.
   The Board of Commissioners, pursuant to the authority conferred by the
General Assembly of the state in G.S. Chapter 153A, §§ 121 and 133 hereby
ordains and enacts into law this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2013)
§ 92.06 JURISDICTION.
   Under the authority granted by G.S. § 153A-122, the county is hereby
authorized to enact this chapter within the rural areas of the county and
outside and beyond the corporate limits of any municipality of the county.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2013)
§ 92.07 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Sheriff’s Office of the county shall be responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2013)
§ 92.08 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS.
   It is not intended that this chapter repeal, abrogate, annul, impair, or
interfere with any existing provisions of any other ordinances or laws.
However, if the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations,
or ordinances of the county conflict with this chapter, the more restrictive or
that imposing the higher standards will govern.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2013)
§ 92.09 AMENDMENT.
   This chapter may be amended from time to time by the Board of Commissioners
on its own motion or on petition and after public notice and hearing.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2013)
§ 92.10 COMPLAINT PROCEDURE AND ENFORCEMENT.
   In the event any person has reasonable grounds to believe that any provision
of this chapter is being violated, he or she shall make a report thereof to the
county’s Sheriff’s Office, which shall investigate the alleged violation. If
the investigation reveals a violation, the investigating officer has the
authority to issue a written warning or civil citation and may obtain criminal
process for the violation thereof. The investigating officer may utilize other
enforcement measures as allowed by law if found to be necessary to render
compliance to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2013) Penalty, see §
92.99
LIMITATIONS AND PROHIBITIONS
§ 92.25 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   No person shall make, continue, or cause to be made or continued:
   (A)   Any noise that is unreasonably loud and disturbing;
   (B)   Any noise which unreasonably disturbs, injures, or endangers the
comfort, repose, health, peace, or safety of reasonable persons of ordinary
sensitivity, within the jurisdictional limits of the county;
   (C)   Any noise which is so harsh, prolonged, unnatural, or unusual in time
or place as to bring unreasonable discomfort to any persons within the
neighborhood from which said noises emanate, or as to unreasonably interfere
with the peace and comfort of neighbors or their guests, or operators or
customers in places of business, or as to detrimentally or adversely affect
such residences or places of business; and/or
   (D)   Any noise that is produced so that it is plainly audible within the
confines of a structure that is secured in a manner to render a reasonable
expectations of having freedom from disturbance.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2013) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.26 LOUD AND UNREASONABLE NOISE.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this section, it shall be unlawful for
any person or persons to make, permit, continue, or cause to be made or to
create any unreasonably loud or disturbing noise in the county.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DISTURBING. Noise which is perceived by a person of ordinary
sensibilities as interrupting the normal peace and calm of the area.
      UNREASONABLY LOUD. Noise which is substantially incompatible with the
time and location where created to the extent that it creates an actual or
imminent interference with peace or good order.
   (C)   In determining whether a noise is unreasonably loud or disturbing, the
following factors incident to such noise are to be considered:
      (1)   Time of day;
      (2)   Distance traveled;
      (3)   Volume and intensity;
      (4)   The character of the area;
      (5)   Proximity to residential structures and noise sensitive areas such
as schools, courts, churches, hospitals, residential care facilities, and
similar institutions;
      (6)   Whether the noise is recurrent, intermittent, or constant;
      (7)   Whether the noise is related to the normal operation of a business
or labor activity;
      (8)   Whether the noise has been enhanced in volume or range by any type
of electronic or mechanical means;
      (9)   Whether the noise is subject to being controlled without
unreasonable effort or expense to the creator thereof; and/or
      (10)   Whether the noise is amplified to a level that penetrates the
confines of an enclosed dwelling.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2013) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.27 NOISES EXPRESSLY PROHIBITED.
   The following acts generating noise, among others, are declared to be loud,
disturbing, and unreasonable noises in violation of this chapter, but said
enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
   (A)   Blowing horns. The sounding of any horn, whistle, or signal device on
any automobile, motorcycle, bus, or other vehicle or railroad train, except as
a danger signal or as required by law, so as to create any unreasonable, loud
or harsh sound or the sounding of such device for a period of time greater than
ten seconds;
   (B)   Radios, televisions, boomboxes, phonographs, stereos, musical
instruments, and similar devices. The use or operation of a radio, television,
boombox, stereo, musical instrument, or similar device that produces or
reproduces sound in a manner that is plainly audible to any person other than
the player(s) or operator(s) of the device, and those who are voluntarily
listening to the sound, and which unreasonably disturbs the peace, quiet, and
comfort of neighbors and passers-by, or is plainly audible at a distance of 50
feet from any person in a commercial, industrial area, or public space;
   (C)   Vehicles. The use of any automobile, motorcycle, dirt bike, go-cart,
recreational vehicle, or any other vehicle so out of repair, so modified, so
loaded, or operated in such a manner, as to create loud or unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling, screeching of tires, or other noise;
   (D)   Exhaust discharge. The discharge into the open of the exhaust of any
steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle, or
recreational vehicle, except through a muffler or other device which will
effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom;
   (E)   Blowing whistles. The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any
stationary boiler except as a warning of danger or to give notice of time to
begin or stop work;
   (F)   Compressed air devices. The use of any mechanical device operated by
compressed air unless the noise created thereby is effectively muffled and
reduced;
   (G)   Pets. The keeping of any animal or bird, which by causing frequent or
long continued noise, shall unreasonably disturb the comfort and repose of any
person in the vicinity;
   (H)   Building operations. The erection (including excavation), demolition,
alteration, or repair of any building in a residential area between the hours
of 8:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of any day or in any district other than a
residential area between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of any day,
except in the case of urgent necessity, in the interest of public safety;
   (I)   Noises near schools and the like. The creation of any excessive or
disturbing noise on any street or parcel of property adjacent to any school,
institution of learning, library, or court while the same is in session, or
adjacent to any hospital, or any church during services, which unreasonably
interferes with the operation or activities of such institution;
   (J)   Noises to attract attention. The use of any drum, loudspeaker, or
other instrument for the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise
to any performance, show, sale, display, or advertisement of merchandise;
   (K)   Blowers, engines. The operation of any noise-creating blower, power
fan, or any internal combustion engine, the operation of which causes noise due
to the explosion of operating gases or fluids, unless the noise emitting
therefrom is sufficiently muffled and the engine is equipped with a muffler
device sufficient to deaden noise, so that the same shall not cause annoyance
to the public nor unreasonably disturb the rest and quiet of any person of
normal sensibilities on adjacent premises or within the vicinity thereof;
   (L)   Loudspeakers or amplifiers. 
      (1)   The use of mechanical loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks,
airplanes, or other vehicles or by any other means for advertising or other
commercial purposes is prohibited.
      (2)   In the exercise of non-commercial free speech, loudspeakers or
amplifiers may be used, subject to the condition that it shall be unlawful for
any person to speak into a loudspeaker or amplifier within the jurisdictional
limits of the county, when such loudspeaker or amplifier is so adjusted that
the voice of the speaker is amplified to the extent that it is audible at a
distance in excess of 150 feet from the person speaking, except that this
prohibition shall not apply in circumstances surrounding the special operations
of law enforcement and emergency service personnel in the performance of their
duties to protect the public.
   (M)   Gong or siren. The use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle, other
than police, fire, or other emergency vehicle.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2013) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.28 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following shall be considered an exception and shall be exempt from the
provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   Noise emanating from regularly scheduled athletic events of any of the
county’s schools or the county’s Parks and Recreation Department facility;
   (B)   Noise resulting from farming and agricultural operations including,
but not limited to, noises generated by machinery, equipment, and farm animals;
   (C)   Noise as the result of normal or routine lawn/yard maintenance and
landscaping;
   (D)   Noises from safety signals, warning devices, emergency signaling
devices, and of any authorized emergency vehicle when responding to any
emergency call or acting in time of emergency;
   (E)   Noises generated from the normal operation of properly equipped
aircraft;
   (F)   Noise from or at parades, street fairs, and similar festivals and/or
concert events sponsored, permitted, or sanctioned by the county;
   (G)   Noise from all churches or any place of worship;
   (H)   Noise from governmental operations;
   (I)   Noise from any sanitation operations;
   (J)   Noise from all lawfully permitted firework displays;
   (K)   Emergency work necessary to restore property to a safe condition
following a fire, accident or natural disaster, to restore public utilities, or
to protect persons or property from an imminent danger;
   (L)   All noises coming from normal operation of motor vehicles properly
equipped with the manufacturer’s standard muffler and noise-reducing equipment;
   (M)   Normal sounds associated with or customary to industrial or
manufacturing operations in the normal course of business, provided that said
businesses are operating in a lawful manner;
   (N)   Noise caused by the discharge of firearms by law enforcement officers
in the performance of their official duties or during the course of official
firearms training;
   (O)   Discharge of firearms or other methods utilized in the lawful activity
of hunting or the taking of wildlife;
   (P)   Noise made by dogs while hunting or being lawfully trained by hunters
or emergency service personnel;
   (Q)   Noise generated by the discharge of firearms at a firing/shooting
range that is operating as a legally permitted facility or a pre-existing
facility protected under G.S. § 14-409.46, Sport Shooting Range Protection;
and/or
   (R)   Noise resulting from activities of a temporary duration permitted by
law and for which a license or permit therefor has been granted by the county.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2013)
§ 92.29 PERMISSIBLE NOISE LEVEL LIMITS.
   (A)   The permissible noise level limits identify the maximum permitted
sound levels for continuous sound generated in the use categories listed below.
 
When Land Use Is Adjacent  Maximum Permissible Sound  Maximum Permissible Sound
To                         Level 7:00 a.m. through 10 Level 10:00 p.m. through
                           p.m.                       7:00 a.m.
Commercial or business     75 (dB)                    70 (dB)
uses
Manufacturing, industrial, 75 (dB)                    75 (dB)
or agricultural uses
Residential uses           60 (dB)                    55 (dB)
 
   (B)   No person shall operate, or cause to be operated, any source of
continuous sound from any use in such a manner as to create a sound level which
exceeds the limits set forth for the use category listed above, more than 10%
of any measurement period, which shall not be less than ten minutes.
   (C)   For any source of sound, the maximum intermittent sound level shall
not exceed the permissible sound levels listed above by 15 dB(A) for all
categories.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2013) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.30 METHODS OF NOISE LEVEL MEASUREMENT.
   (A)   In the enforcement of this chapter, various techniques of measurement
shall be utilized to measure and/or determine if levels of noise are
unreasonably loud or disturbing and fail to be in compliance with the
regulations and limitations specified within this chapter.
   (B)   Noise shall be measured by one or more of the following techniques.
      (1)   Distance. Noise levels may be measured by the distance that
separates the generator of the noise to the location of the receiver of the
noise. This type of measurement can be utilized by any designee of the
Sheriff’s Office with ordinary sensibilities which can detect plainly audible
noise and can verify a measurable distance in linear feet.
      (2)   Duration. Noise levels may be measured by the amount of time that
the noise generated reaches the receiver of the noise. Noise measured in this
manner may be conducted by any designee of the Sheriff’s Office with ordinary
sensibilities and shall be directed to the length of time that the noise is
plainly audible rather than the volume level of the noise.
      (3)   Decibel level. Noise levels utilizing this method of measurement
shall be measured from any point beyond (outside) the property line of the
property where the noise generates or the specified developmental setback
distance as specified within Chapter 153 of this code. Noise level measurements
shall be performed by an authorized agent of the Sheriff’s Office that has been
trained in the area of sound level measurement, using a certified sound level
meter. The meter must be set to the “A” weighted response scale and the meter
to slow response. Measurements shall be conducted in accordance with the
standards promulgated by American National Standards Institute or other
reasonable standards adopted or tested by the county. Measurements shall be
taken at least three feet above ground and not more than ten feet above ground.
      (4)   Penetration. Noise levels may be measured by the detection of sound
within an enclosed area that was generated outside of the enclosed area. This
method of measurement shall be used to verify if noise is being forced into a
structure and minimizes the expectation of having freedom from disturbance.
Measurements of this nature may be performed by any designee of the Sheriff’s
Office with ordinary sensibilities that can detect plainly audible noise.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2013)
§ 92.31 DATA DOCUMENTATION AND RECORDATION.
   (A)   A record of all noise level measurements performed utilizing the
decibel level method shall be completed and signed by the individual conducting
the noise level testing. The documentation of the measurement shall contain the
following:
      (1)   Date;
      (2)   Time of measurement;
      (3)   Location of testing sites;
      (4)   Location of noise source/generator;
      (5)   Noise level readings for each testing site;
      (6)   Weather conditions;
      (7)   Make, model, and serial number of the sound level meter used for
testing;
      (8)   Date of last certification/calibration of the noise level meter;
      (9)   Noise source;
      (10)   Responsible party information of the noise source; and
      (11)   Name and contact information of the complainant.
   (B)   All other methods of noise level measurements shall document the
following:
      (1)   Date;
      (2)   Time of measurement;
      (3)   Location of testing site;
      (4)   Location of noise source; and
      (5)   Noise source.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2013)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The Administrator shall be authorized to use any one or more of the
methods described in this section, or action authorized by law, to ensure
compliance with, or to prevent a violation of, the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   After issuing a written warning to the violator, a deputy sheriff, or
other law enforcement officer of the county, may issue a citation subjecting
the violator to a civil penalty to be paid within ten days. Non-payment within
ten days shall result in the issuance of a $50 delinquency charge. The county
shall have the right to collect said payments and delinquency charges through
civil action. Civil citations shall be issued as follows:
      (1)   Initial detection: written warning;
      (2)   Reoccurring detections: civil citations;
      (3)   First citation: $50;
      (4)   Second citation within same 30-day period: $100;
      (5)   Third citation within same 30-day period: $250; and
      (6)   All subsequent violations within 30-day period: $500.
   (C)   Violations of this chapter may constitute a misdemeanor and is
punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4 and the maximum fine, term of
imprisonment, or infraction penalty allowed by law is hereby authorized.
   (D)   Enforcement may also be achieved by injunction. When a violation
occurs, the county may either, before or after the institution of any other
authorized action or proceeding, apply to the appropriate division of the
general court of justice for a mandatory or prohibitory injunction commanding
the defendant or, in the case of counterclaims, the plaintiff to correct the
unlawful condition or cease the unlawful use of the property.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2013)
CHAPTER 93: MASS GATHERINGS
Section
   
93.01   Purpose
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Permit required; revocation of permit
   
93.04   Application for permit
   
93.05   Provisional permit; performance bond; liability insurance
   
93.06   Issuance of permit; revocation; forfeiture of bond; cancellation
   
93.07   Rules and regulations
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 PURPOSE.
   The intent and purpose of this chapter is to provide for the protection of
the public health, welfare, and safety of those persons in attendance at mass
gatherings and of those persons who reside near, or are located in proximity
to, the sites of mass gatherings, or are directly affected thereby.
(Ord. passed 7-21-1975)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY HEALTH DIRECTOR. The Harnett County Health Director or his or her
authorized representative.
   MASS GATHERING. The congregation or assembly in which admission is charged
in reasonable contemplation of profit of more than 500 people for a continuous
period of more than six hours in an open space or open air, or in permanent
buildings or structures. A MASS GATHERING in a permanent building or structure
shall include only those assemblies which by reason of their size the county’s
Health Director determines to be likely to pose a threat to public health,
safety, or welfare through unsatisfactory provision of adequate public safety,
fire, and sanitary facilities. A MASS GATHERING shall not include an event
sponsored by a school or other agency of government or any private school when
the assembly is of a size and scope such that there is a reasonably apparent
capability to service the needs of that assembly without threatening the public
health, welfare, or safety, as determined by the county’s Health Director.
   PERMITTEE. Any person who is issued a permit under this chapter by the
county’s Health Director.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation, or legal entity.
(Ord. passed 7-21-1975)
§ 93.03 PERMIT REQUIRED; REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall organize, sponsor, or hold any mass gatherings unless
a permit has been issued to such person by the county’s Health Director under
the provisions of this chapter. A permit shall be required for each mass
gathering and is not transferable to other persons.
   (B)   A permit may be revoked by the county’s Health Director at any time if
he or she finds that the mass gathering is being, or has been, maintained or
operated in violation of this chapter, or that prior to the mass gathering, the
planning or preparation for the mass gathering is not in compliance with §
93.07 of this chapter. A permit may be revoked upon the request of the
permittee or upon abandonment of the operation. A permit will otherwise expire
upon satisfactory completion of the post gathering cleanup following the close
of the mass gathering.
(Ord. passed 7-21-1975)
§ 93.04 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Application for a permit for a mass gathering shall be made to the
county’s Health Director on a form and in a manner prescribed by him or her, by
the person who will organize, sponsor, or hold the mass gathering. The
application shall be filed with the county’s Health Director at least 30 days
prior to the commencement of the mass gathering. A fee of $10 shall accompany
the application.
   (B)   The application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Identification of the applicant;
      (2)   Identification of any other person(s) responsible for organizing,
sponsoring, or holding the mass gathering;
      (3)   The location of the proposed mass gathering;
      (4)   The estimated maximum number of persons reasonably expected to be
in attendance at any one time;
      (5)   The date or dates and the hours during which the mass gathering is
to be conducted; and
      (6)   A statement as to the total time period involved.
   (C)   The application shall be accompanied by an outline map of the area to
be used, to approximate scale, showing the location of:
      (1)   All proposed and existing privies or toilets, lavatory, and bathing
facilities;
      (2)   All water supply sources including lakes, ponds, streams, wells,
storage tanks, and the like;
      (3)   All garbage and refuse storage and disposal areas;
      (4)   All entrances and exits to public highways; and
      (5)   Emergency ingress and egress roads.
   (D)   The application shall be accompanied by such additional plans,
reports, and information required by the county’s Health Director as he or she
shall deem necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-21-1975)
§ 93.05 PROVISIONAL PERMIT; PERFORMANCE BOND; LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   Within ten days after the receipt of the application, the county’s
Health Director shall review the application and inspect the proposed site for
the mass gathering. If it reasonably appears that the requirement of this
chapter can be met by the applicant, a provisional permit shall be issued.
   (B)   (1)   If the county’s Health Director shall deem it necessary to
protect the health, welfare, and safety of those persons in attendance at mass
gatherings and of other persons who may be affected by mass gatherings and to
carry out the provisions of this chapter, he or she may require the permittee,
within five days after issuance of the provisional permit, to file with the
county’s Health Director a performance bond or other surety to be executed to
the county in the amount of $5,000 for up to 10,000 persons and $1,000
additional for each additional 5,000 persons or fraction thereof, reasonably
estimated to attend the mass gathering.
      (2)   The bond, if required, shall be conditioned on full compliance with
this chapter and shall be forfeitable upon noncompliance and a showing by the
county’s Health Director of any injury, damage, or other loss to the county or
local governmental agencies caused by the noncompliance.
      (3)   The permittee shall, in addition, file satisfactory evidence of
public liability and property damage insurance in an amount determined by the
county’s Health Director to be reasonable (but not to exceed $1,000,000) in
amount in relation to the risks and hazards involved in the proposed mass
gathering.
(Ord. passed 7-21-1975)
§ 93.06 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; REVOCATION; FORFEITURE OF BOND; CANCELLATION.
   (A)   If, upon inspection by the county’s Health Director 15 days prior to
the starting date of the mass gathering, or earlier upon request of the
permittee, the required facilities are found to be in place and satisfactory
arrangements are found to have been made for required services, and other
applicable provisions of this chapter are found to have been met, the county’s
Health Director shall issue a permit for the mass gathering. If, upon such
inspection, the facilities, arrangements, or other provisions are not
satisfactory, the provisional permit shall be revoked and no permit issued.
   (B)   Upon revocation of either the provisional permit or the permit, the
permittee shall immediately announce cancellation of the mass gathering in as
effective a manner as is reasonably possible, including, but not limited to,
the use of whatever methods were used for advertising or promotion of the mass
gathering.
   (C)   If the provisional permit or the permit is revoked prior to or during
the mass gathering, the county’s Health Director may order the permittee to
install such facilities and make such arrangements as may be necessary to
accommodate those persons who may nevertheless attend or be present at the mass
gathering despite its cancellation and to restore the site to a safe and
sanitary condition. In the event the permittee fails to comply with the order
of the county’s Health Director, the county’s Health Director may immediately
proceed to install such facilities and make such other arrangements and
provisions for cleanup as may be minimally required in the interest of public
health and safety, utilizing such county and local funds and resources as may
be available to him or her. Prior to or within 60 days after such action, the
county’s Health Director may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction to
order forfeiture of the permittee’s performance bond or surety for violation of
this chapter. The court may order that the proceeds shall be applied to the
extent necessary to reimburse the county and other government agencies for
expenditures made pursuant to the action taken by the county’s Health Director
upon the permittee’s failure to comply with his or her order. Any excess
proceeds shall be returned to the insurer of the bond or to the surety after
deducting court costs.
(Ord. passed 7-21-1975) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The rules and regulations to protect the health, welfare, and safety of
those attending mass gatherings and of other persons who may be affected by
mass gatherings adopted on October 28, 1971, and promulgated by the state’s
Division of Health Services are hereby adopted as the rules and regulations of
the county, except where they conflict with any of the provisions of this
chapter. These rules and regulations dated October 28, 1971 are incorporated
hereby reference pursuant to G.S. § 153A-47 and an official copy shall be filed
in the Office of the Clerk to the Board of Commissioners and made available by
him or her for public inspection.
(Ord. passed 7-21-1975)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in G.S. § 14-4. The county’s
Health Director may, through a court of competent jurisdiction, enjoin
violations of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-21-1975)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   SANITARY LANDFILLS AND DISPOSAL FACILITIES
      
111.   COUNTY AIRPORT
      
112.   SAFETY SERVICES AND BUSINESSES
      
113.   MILITARY PROPERTY SALES
      
114.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
115.   INSULATION AND ENERGY UTILIZATION LICENSING
      
116.   MASSAGE AND MASSAGE PARLORS
      
117.   AMUSEMENTS AND RECREATION
      
118.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: SANITARY LANDFILLS AND DISPOSAL FACILITIES
Section
Franchise Regulations
   
110.01   Sanitary landfills franchise required
   
110.02   Term of franchise
   
110.03   Franchise may be exclusive
   
110.04   Transfer of ownership or control
   
110.05   Contents of application
   
110.06   Grant of franchise
   
110.07   Forfeiture or revocation
   
110.08   Equal opportunity policy
   
110.09   Notices
   
110.10   Incorporation of provisions
Commercial Incineration Facilities
   
110.25   Title
   
110.26   Purpose
   
110.27   Application
   
110.28   Application and processing fees
   
110.29   Application procedure
   
110.30   Control of emissions
   
110.31   Effective date
 
   
110.99   Penalty
FRANCHISE REGULATIONS
§ 110.01 SANITARY LANDFILLS FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   No sanitary landfill, as defined in both G.S. Chapter 130A, Article 9, and
15A NCAC, Chapter 13B shall be operated within the county without a franchise
granted pursuant to this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 9-6-2011) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 TERM OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The term of a franchise shall be stated in the franchise agreement,
but shall not exceed 30 years.
   (B)   At any time during the last ten years of an existing franchise, the
franchisee may, upon proper application, request an extension of the franchise.
   (C)   In no event may the renewal term and the remaining term of the
existing franchise exceed a total of 30 years.
(Ord. passed 9-6-2011)
§ 110.03 FRANCHISE MAY BE EXCLUSIVE.
   The county may, in its discretion, grant a franchisee exclusive rights to
operate a sanitary landfill or to dispose of certain types of solid waste.
(Ord. passed 9-6-2011)
§ 110.04 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL.
   (A)   Transfer of franchise. A franchise may provide that a franchise may be
transferred along with the sale of all or any portion of a franchisee’s
ownership or controlling interest or operational control, whether by sale of
stock or assets, as long as the successor-in-interest complies with division
(C) below.
   (B)   Transfer threshold. The grantee shall promptly notify the county of
any actual or proposed change in or transfer of, or acquisition by any other
party of, control of the grantee. The word “control”, as used herein, is not
limited to major stockholders but includes actual working control in whatever
manner exercised. A rebuttable presumption that a transfer of control has
occurred shall arise upon the disposal by the grantee, directly or indirectly,
by gift, assignment, voluntary sale, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of
50% or more, at one time, of the ownership or controlling interest in the
system; or 50% cumulatively over the term of the franchise of such interest to
a corporation, partnership, limited partnership, trust, limited liability, or
company association, or person or group of persons acting in concert.
   (C)   Process. Every transfer, sale, assignment, or disposition of ownership
or control of the grantee as described in division (B) above shall make the
franchise subject to cancellation unless and until the transferee or purchaser
or successor-in-interest shall have become a signatory to the franchise.
   (D)   Financial assurance. Financial assurance, financial qualification, and
financial responsibility shall be determined by the state’s Department of
Environment and Natural Resources or its successor agency during state permit
review.
(Ord. passed 9-6-2011) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 CONTENTS OF APPLICATION.
   An application for a franchise shall include the following information:
   (A)   A statement of the population to be served, including a description of
the geographic area;
   (B)   A description of the volume and characteristics of the waste stream;
   (C)   A projection of the useful life of the sanitary landfill;
   (D)   An explanation of how the franchise will be consistent with the
jurisdiction’s solid waste management plan required under G.S. § 130A-309.09A,
including provisions for waste reduction, reuse, and recycling;
   (E)   The procedures to be followed for governmental oversight and
regulation of the fees and rates to be charged by facilities subject to the
franchise for waste generated in the jurisdiction of the franchising entity;
and
   (F)   A facility plan for the sanitary landfill that shall include the
boundaries of the proposed facility, proposed development of the facility site
in five-year operational phases, the boundaries of all waste disposal units,
final elevations and capacity of all waste disposal units, the amount of waste
to be received per day in tons, the total waste disposal capacity of the
sanitary landfill in tons, a description of environmental controls, and a
description of any other waste management activities to be conducted at the
facility. In addition, the facility plan shall show the proposed location of
soil borrow areas, leachate facilities, and all other facilities and
infrastructure, including ingress and egress to the facility.
(Ord. passed 9-6-2011)
§ 110.06 GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
   Upon review of the application and consideration of any other information or
factors it deems relevant, the Board of Commissioners may issue a franchise in
its discretion, and may include reasonable requirements, restrictions, or
provisions it deems advisable and in the public interest.
(Ord. passed 9-6-2011)
§ 110.07 FORFEITURE OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   Grounds of revocation. The county reserves the right to revoke any
franchise granted hereunder and rescind all rights and privileges associated
with the franchise in accordance with the procedures set forth herein in the
following circumstances, each of which represents a default and breach under
this chapter and the franchise grant:
      (1)   The grantee’s default in the performance of any of the material
obligations under this chapter, the franchise or under such documents,
contracts, operating agreements, and other terms and provisions entered into by
and between the county and the grantee;
      (2)   The grantee’s violation of any orders or rulings of any regulatory
body having jurisdiction over the grantee after notice thereof, continuation or
the violation without a reasonable remedy having been initiated within 90 days
of notice;
      (3)   The grantee’s fraud or any unfair or deceptive act or practice with
regard to the county or the public under the laws of the state; or
      (4)   The grantee’s insolvency or bankruptcy.
   (B)   Procedure prior to revocation.
      (1)   The county shall make written demand that the grantee comply with
any material requirement, limitation, term, condition, rule, or regulation or
correct any action deemed cause for revocation. If the failure, refusal, or
neglect of the grantee continues for a period of 90 days following such written
demand, the county shall place its intent to revoke the franchise upon a
regular County Commissioner meeting agenda. The county shall cause to be mailed
by certified mail to the grantee at least ten days prior to the date of such
meeting, a written notice of intent to revoke and the reasons therefor, and the
time and place of the meeting, notice of which shall be published by the County
Clerk at least once ten days before such meeting in a newspaper of general
circulation within the county.
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners shall hear any persons interested
therein, and shall determine in its discretion, whether or not any failure,
refusal, or neglect by the grantee was with just cause.
      (3)   If such failure, refusal, or neglect by the grantee was with just
cause, as reasonably determined by the county in its sole discretion, the Board
of Commissioners shall direct the grantee to comply within such time and manner
and upon such terms and conditions as are reasonable.
      (4)   If the Board of Commissioners shall determine that such failure,
refusal, or neglect by the grantee was without just cause, then the Board of
Commissioners shall, by resolution, declare that the franchise of the grantee
shall be revoked.
(Ord. passed 9-6-2011) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY POLICY.
   Equal opportunity employment shall be afforded by the grantee to all
qualified persons, and the grantee shall comply with all equal opportunity
provisions enacted by federal, state, and local authorities.
(Ord. passed 9-6-2011) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09 NOTICES.
   All notices from the grantee to the county pursuant to this subchapter and
franchise shall be to the County Manager or his or her designee. The grantee
shall maintain with the county throughout the term of the franchise, an address
for service of notices by mail, which address shall be noted in the franchise
agreement.
(Ord. passed 9-6-2011) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.10 INCORPORATION OF PROVISIONS.
   The requirements of this subchapter shall be deemed to be included and
binding on the grantee of any franchise.
(Ord. passed 9-6-2011)
COMMERCIAL INCINERATION FACILITIES
§ 110.25 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Harnett County
Ordinance for the Regulation of the Location, Operation, and Management of
Commercial Incineration Facilities”, “this subchapter”, or “subchapter”.
(Ord. passed 2-5-1990)
§ 110.26 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to:
   (A)   Regulate the location, operation, and management of incineration
facilities dealing with the storage, transfer, treatment, or disposal of waste
within the county where the total incinerator capacity is greater than 250
pounds per hour;
   (B)   Assure that the best available management practices are used in
handling waste incineration; and
   (C)   Assure that operation of such facilities in the county pose no threat
to the water, land, and air resources of the county.
(Ord. passed 2-5-1990)
§ 110.27 APPLICATION.
   (A)   A permit applicant shall prepare and file an incineration permit with
the County Commissioners. The permit application shall include all related
documents submitted to the United States Government and to the state.
   (B)   An application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   A description of the company, information on its financial
capability, and a detailed history of all its past activities in the field of
incineration, including a synopsis of every other facility it has operated, and
including a detailed account of all past and pending litigation, favorable and
unfavorable. Include the record of any subsidiary or parent corporation having
an interest greater than 5% of the outstanding shares of the applicant
corporation. Also, include a list of all past and present litigation, favorable
and unfavorable, the subsidiary or parent corporation has been involved in;
      (2)   Evidence of liability insurance in the amount of $1,000,000 for
sudden and $10,000,000 for non-sudden coverage. Evidence of $10,000,000
liability insurance to run for ten years subsequent to closure to cover post-
closure costs;
      (3)   A history of any claims against the company at any site, including
the record of any subsidiary or parent corporation as defined above;
      (4)   Justification for and anticipated benefits from the project;
      (5)   A description of the scope of the proposed project, including an
estimated schedule of how much and what kinds of waste the facility would
accept, where the material would come from, what pretreatment will be required
of wastes unacceptable to the facility without such pretreatment, and how long
the facility is expected to operate;
      (6)   Yearly site operation expenses and an estimate of the costs for the
lifetime of the project;
      (7)   The proposed method of financing the project, including
development, operation, and closure stages;
      (8)   Resumes of management personnel and the proposed number of
employees and types of positions, including information on the training and
experience required for each position, and safety precautions undertaken for
the protection of personnel;
      (9)   The anticipated date to begin construction and a list of the
financial institutions which will be funding construction;
      (10)   The anticipated date operations are to begin;
      (11)   A detailed estimate of the types and amounts of local government
services required by the operator in each year;
      (12)   A description of emergency procedures and safety and security
precautions that will be in use at the facility; (This information should
include details on emergency assistance and emergency medical treatment that
will be required from the area’s medical facilities, the county’s rescue
squads, and community fire departments.)
      (13)   A description of the environmental protection measures to be taken
by the applicant to prevent contamination in and around the facility site and
the description of planned monitoring systems, with an estimated annual budget
for each of these items;
      (14)   A description of environmental protection measures to be used
during transportation of materials to and from the facility, with an estimated
annual budget for these arrangements and an estimate of the volume of material
to be transported during each year of operation;
      (15)   A description of the site closure plan for the facility and the
anticipated date of closure; and
      (16)   A description of anticipated need for post-closure care.
   (C)   A map or other written material attached to the application shall
include, but not be limited to, the following information:
      (1)   Ownership.
         (a)   Name, address, and telephone number of legal owner of the
subject property;
         (b)   Name, address, and telephone number of professional persons
responsible for plat or survey;
         (c)   Description of any existing rights-of-way or easements affecting
the property; and
         (d)   Reference to any existing restrictive covenants on the property.
      (2)   Description. Location of property by any tax map description and
any parcel identification number. This description of the subject property
should include a reference to the deed book and page and any other evidence of
title the current property owner may have;
      (3)   Features. Each map shall contain the following information and meet
the below set forth criteria:
         (a)   Drawn to a scale of not less than 200 feet to the inch;
         (b)   Location sketch map showing relationship of the project to the
surrounding area;
         (c)   Graphic scale, date, north arrow, and legend;
         (d)   Location of property with respect to surrounding property and
roads, and the names and addresses of adjacent property owners according to
county tax records;
         (e)   Zoning classification of proposed project and adjacent property;
         (f)   The location of all boundary lines of the property;
         (g)   The total acreage of land in the project;
         (h)   The location of existing and/or platted streets, easements,
buildings, railroads, cemeteries, bridges, sewers, water mains, culverts,
wells, and gas and electric transmission lines;
         (I)   The location of water bodies, water courses, groundwater
aquifiers, springs, and other pertinent features;
         (j)   The location, dimensions, and acreage of all property proposed
to be set aside for various uses on the applicant’s property;
         (k)   The location of all test wells and/or borings;
         (l)   The location of the 500- and 100-year floodplain, and records of
flood, including inundation due to dam break; and
         (m)   The location of historic properties and gravesites, including
any plans for relocation of graves and properties having historical
significance.
      (4)   Geological map. A map showing:
         (a)   Location of faults, dikes, sills, and other pertinent geologic
features including bedrock type and strike and dip of any mappable bedding;
         (b)   The depth and degree of weathering (saprolite);
         (c)   Identification and location of clay as to thickness, type, and
permeability; and
         (d)   Location of the water table as to approximate depth, gradient,
and surface configuration.
      (5)   Topographic map. A topographic map with contours at vertical
intervals of not more than five feet at the same scale as the project site map
shall be included. Date, method of preparation, and preparer of said survey
shall be stated; and
      (6)   Transportation route map. A map showing proposed transportation
routes to and from the facility site, including location of towns and emergency
and safety facilities, include an estimate of the volume of material to travel
on each route.
   (D)   The application shall address the following factors with regard to,
but not limited to, on-site storage and/or disposal:
      (1)   Contaminant flow to water table including:
         (a)   Leachate monitoring, collecting, and withdrawal systems;
         (b)   Clay and synthetic liners (extra thickness, multiple liners);
and
         (c)   Spill prevention and containment measures.
      (2)   Contaminant movement with groundwater, including:
         (a)   Groundwater monitoring systems at the site and in potentially
affected area; and
         (b)   Subsurface slurry wall barriers’ control and other groundwater
withdrawals in the area.
      (3)   Predictability of contaminate movement, based on preconstructed
borings and groundwater modeling;
      (4)   Potential effect on:
         (a)   Surface waters;
         (b)   Planned collection systems for surface water runoff; and
         (c)   Planned exclusion systems for surface water run-on.
      (5)   Potential effect on:
         (a)   Aquifiers; and
         (b)   Planned provisions for alternate water supply systems and
facilities for immediate pumping and treatment of contaminated water.
      (6)   Potential effect on:
         (a)   Public water supply; and
         (b)   Planned runoff collection and treatment and provisions for
alternate supply systems.
      (7)   Possibility of:
         (a)   Site flooding; and
         (b)   Planned special facility design, special control dikes, and
buffer zone setback in area of standard project flood area.
      (8)   Potential human exposure to:
         (a)   Treated waste water, including planned safety procedures,
clothing, instruction, and practice for employees; and
         (b)   Planned oversized or redundant treatment capacity, effluent
monitoring, and automatic shutdown systems.
      (9)   With respect to incineration, the nature and predictability of
pollution movement, including planned stack height for incinerators with
continuous stack and plume monitoring and recording, until emission levels are
predictable, and planned segregation of incompatible wastes.
(Ord. passed 2-5-1990)
§ 110.28 APPLICATION AND PROCESSING FEES.
   The Board of Commissioners shall require a permit application fee in the
amount of $100,000 to reimburse the county for the costs of any needed
professional assistance that may be required to evaluate the permit application
and amendments, verify its contents, and evaluate the impact of such a permit
on the community, public health, and environment. This assistance may include,
but shall not be limited to, the assistance of lawyers, biologists, geologists,
engineers, chemists, hydrologists, emergency response, transportation and
public health experts, land appraisers, and professional testing laboratories.
Funds not so expended in the legitimate review of the permit application shall
be returned to the applicant. Such fee shall be submitted with the application
to which it relates by certified check which is payable to the county.
(Ord. passed 2-5-1990)
§ 110.29 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The permit applicant shall submit to the Board of Commissioners 12
copies of all information required by federal and state agencies for the
facility for which it requests a county permit at the time such information is
submitted to the state and federal governments. The review procedure shall not
begin nor shall the application be designated as complete until such time as
all required data are submitted and the appropriate fees are paid.
   (B)   A designee of the Board of Commissioners shall compile copies of all
reports, applications, minutes of the Environmental Affairs Board meetings,
reports by consultants, and similar materials. These shall be placed in one
location with free access by the public and availability of copying any portion
or all of any document at cost.
   (C)   Within 45 days of the submission of the application, the
Commissioners’ designee shall hold a public hearing so that the applicant can
present its plans to the Environmental Affairs Board and answer questions
regarding the same.
   (D)   After the hearing, the Commissioners’ designee, after consultation
with the Environmental Affairs Board, shall have 60 days in which to determine
if the application is complete and shall mail notice of its determination to
the applicant. If it is not complete, the applicant will have six months to
complete the application. However, the applicant may, at the end of six months,
make a showing of cause to the Board of Commissioners and, if the Board finds
that the delay is justified and in good faith, it may grant the applicant an
extension of not more than three months.
   (E)   Each application shall require an analysis conducted by the county
staff and a consultant or consultants selected by the Board of Commissioners
upon the recommendation of the Environmental Affairs Board. The analysis shall
be completed within 90 days from the day the application is determined to be
complete. In certain instances where the complexity of the application requires
more than the usual 90 days, the county staff and/or consultant may request an
additional 60 days from the County Commissioners and the proponent has the
option of requesting the Board of Commissioners to extend the analysis period
to allow time for responding to staff and/or consultant request for additional
information on a completed application.
   (F)   The Commissioners’ designee and each consultant shall make reports on
the application to the Environmental Affairs Board at its meetings.
   (G)   The Environmental Affairs Board shall call a public meeting for public
comment on the completed application along with the analysis of county staff
and consultants. The purpose of this meeting shall be for public review of the
application. The staff shall give notice by regular mail of the time and place
of the public meeting to the owner and adjacent property owners as specified on
the above referenced map. Said notice shall be mailed not less than 14 days
prior to the date specified thereon. Notice of a public meeting shall be posted
by the applicant on the proposed facility property on each and every street or
highway of access to the subject property not less than 14 days prior to the
date specified thereon. Said posted notices shall be at intervals of not
greater than 1,500 feet. Notice shall also be placed by the applicant in the
county newspaper not less than 14 days prior to the dates specified thereon.
   (H)   Within 45 days after receipt of the final analysis, completed
application, and public comment, the Environmental Affairs Board shall make a
recommendation to the Board of Commissioners at a public meeting whether to
accept the application, deny it, or accept it with modifications. This
recommendation shall be made to the full Board of Commissioners; however,
before making a recommendation to the County Commissioners to accept the
proposal or accept it with modifications, the Environmental Affairs Board shall
make the following determinations:
      (1)   The construction and operation of the facility will not pose an
unreasonable health or environmental risk to the surrounding locality;
      (2)   The applicant (or facility operator) has the capability, and
financial resources to construct, operate, and maintain the facility;
      (3)   The applicant or operator has taken, or consented in writing to
take, any and all reasonable measures to comply with applicable federal, state,
and local regulations and ordinances; and
      (4)   The applicant’s plan represents the best available technology for
handling the waste for which the applicant will be permitted and that the
applicant has demonstrated that it will employ the best management practices in
handling the waste at the proposed facility.
   (I)   At its next scheduled meeting, or at such meeting thereafter as might
be designated by the Board, the Board of Commissioners shall make its decision
to grant the permit, deny it, or grant it with specified conditions.
   (J)   A permit shall be valid for no more than 18 months from the date it is
granted by the Board of Commissioners unless the applicant begins construction
of the facility prior to the expiration of the permit, thereafter forthwith
completes such construction, and operates the facility in accordance with all
specified conditions. If a permit becomes invalid and the application is
unchanged from when the permit was granted, it shall follow the procedure of
this section and the filing fee of §
110.28.
(Ord. passed 2-5-1990)
§ 110.30 CONTROL OF EMISSIONS.
   (A)   Emissions from all incinerators at a plant site where the total
incinerator capacity is greater than 250 pounds per hour shall not cause any of
the following ambient levels in milligrams per cubic meter at 77°F and 29.92
inches of mercury (except for asbestos) to be exceeded beyond the premises:
No. Emission Annual      24-Hour Chronic 1-Hour Acute       15-Minute Acute
             Carcinogens Toxicants       Systemic Toxicants Irritants
                                   Annual      24-Hour   1-Hour Acute 15-Minute
No. Emission                       Carcinogens Chronic   Systemic     Acute
                                               Toxicants Toxicants    Irritants
1   acetaldehyde                                                      27
2   acetic acid                                                       3.7
3   acrolein                                                          0.08
4   ammonia                                                           2.7
5   aniline                                              1
6   arsenic and compounds          2.3x10-7
7   asbestos                       2.8x10-11
                                   fibers/ml
8   aziridine                                  0.006
9   benzidine and salts            1.5x10-8
10  benzo(a)pyrene                 3.3x10-5
11  benzyl chloride                                      0.5
12  beryllium                      4.1x10-6
13  beryllium chloride             4.1x10-6
14  beryllium fluoride             4.1x10-6
15  beryllium nitrate              4.1x10-6
16  bis-chloromethyl ether         3.7x10-7
17  bromide                                                           0.2
18  cadmium                        5.5x10-6
19  cadmium acetate                5.5x10-6
20  cadmium bromide                5.5x10-6
21  carbon disulfide                           0.186
22  chlorine                                   0.0375                 0.9
23  chlorobenzene                              2.2
24  chloroprene                                0.44      3.5
25  cresol                                               2.2
26  p-dichlorobenzene                                                 66
27  dichlorodifluoromethane                    248
28  dichlorofluoromethane                      0.5
29  di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate                 0.03
30  dimethyl sulfate                           0.003
31  1,4-dioxane                                0.56
32  epichlorohydrin                8.3x10-2
33  ethyl acetate                                        140
34  ethylenediamine                            0.3       2.5
35  ethylene dibromide             4.0x10-4
36  ethylene dichloride            3.8x10-3
37  ethylene glycol monoethyl                  0.12      1.9
    ether
38  ethyl mercaptan                                      0.1
39  fluorides                                  0.016     0.25
40  formaldehyde                                                      0.15
41  hexachlorocyclo-pentadiene                 0.0006    0.01
42  hexachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin     7.6x10-8
43  n-hexane                                   1.1
44  hexane isomers except n-hexane                                    360
45  hydrazine                                  0.0006
46  hydrogen chloride                                                 0.7
47  hydrogen cyanide                           0.14      1.1
48  hydrogen fluoride                          0.03                   0.25
49  hydrogen sulfide                                                  2.1
50  maleic anhydride                           0.012     0.1
51  manganese and compounds                    0.031
52  manganese cyclopentadienyl                 0.0006
    tricarbonyl
53  manganese tetroxide                        0.0062
54  mercury, alkyl                             0.00006
55  mercury, aryl and inorganic                0.0006
    compounds
56  mercury, vapor                             0.0006
57  methyl chloroform                          12                     245
58  methyl ethyl ketone                        3.7                    88.5
59  methyl isobutyl ketone                     2.56      30
60  methyl mercaptan                           0.05
61  nickel metal                               6.0x10-3
62  nickel carbonyl                            6.0x10-4
63  nickel subsulfide              2.1x10-6
64  nickel, soluble compounds as               6.0x10-4
    nickel
65  nitric acid                                                       1
66  nitrobenzene                               0.06      0.5
67  N-nitrosodi-methylamine        5.0x10-5
68  pentachlorophenol                          0.003     0.025
69  phenol                                     0.95
70  phosgene                                   0.0025
71  phosphine                                                         0.13
72  polychlorinated biphenyls      8.3x10-5
73  styrene                                    1.34                   42.5
74  sulfuric acid                              0.012     0.1
75  1.1.1.2-tetrachloro-2.2-difl               52
    uoroethane
76  1.1.2.2-tetrachloro-1.2-difl               52
    uoroethane
77  1.1.1.2-tetrachloro-ethane     6.3x10-3
78  toluene                                    4.7                    56
79  toluene-         2.4-             0.0005                 0.015
    diisocyanate
80  trichlorofluoro-methane                              560
81  1.1.2-trichloro-1.2.2-trifluo                                     950
    roethane
82  vinyl chloride                 3.8x10-4
83  vinylidene chloride                        0.12
85  xylene                                     2.7                    65
 
   (B)   After December 1, 1990, emissions from all incinerators at a plant
site where the total incinerator capacity is greater than 250 pounds per hour
shall not cause any of the following ambient levels in milligrams per cubic
meter at 77°F and 29.92 inches of mercury to be exceeded beyond the premises:
1  acrylonitrile               1.5x10-4
2  ammonium chromate           8.3x10-8
3  ammonium dichromate         8.3x10-8
4  benzene                     1.2x10-4
5  1.3-butadiene               1.7x10-4
6  calcium chromate            8.3x10-8
7  carbon tetrachloride        6.7x10-3
8  chloroform                  4.3x10-3
9  chromic acid                8.3x10-8
10 chromium (IV)               8.3x10-8
11 ethylene oxide              2,7x10-5
12 lithium chromate            8.3x10-8
13 methylene chloride          2.4x10-2
14 perchloroethylene           1.9x10-1
15 potassium chromate          8.3x10-8
16 potassium dichromate        8.3x10-8
17 sodium chromate             8.3x10-8
18 sodium dichromate           8.3x10-8
19 strontium chromate          8.3x10-8
20 tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin 3.0x10-9
21 trichloroethylene           5.9x10-2
 
   (C)   Ambient air concentrations shall be determined by using appropriate
Environmental Protection Agency dispersion modeling procedures or other methods
specified by the Director. Ambient air concentrations are to be evaluated for
an annual period over a calendar year, 24-hour periods from midnight to
midnight, for one-hour periods beginning on the hour, and for 15-minute periods
beginning on the hour of 15, 30, or 45 minutes after the hour. The
identification of each toxic air pollutant emitted and its corresponding
emission rate shall be determined using mass balancing analysis, source
testing, or other methods acceptable to the Director.
   (D)   For incinerators at a plant site where the total incinerator capacity
is greater than 250 pounds per hour, the emissions of:
      (1)   Hydrogen chloride shall not exceed four pounds per hour unless the
emission is reduced by at least 99% by weight; and
      (2)   Mercury shall not exceed seven pounds per 24-hour period.
(Ord. passed 2-5-1990) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.31 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be effective from the date of its passage, February 5,
1990.
(Ord. passed 2-5-1990)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of the emission levels as set forth in §
110.31 will involve a fine of $100/pollutant/day over specified level.
(Ord. passed 2-5-1990)
CHAPTER 111: COUNTY AIRPORT
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Authority
   
111.02   Purpose
   
111.03   Statement of policy
   
111.04   Special aviation service operations (SASO)
   
111.05   Conflicts with existing agreements or federal law
   
111.06   Definitions
   
111.07   Scope
   
111.08   General Airport information
   
111.09   Violation of rules and regulations
   
111.10   No private right of action
   
111.11   State and federal law
   
111.12   Allocation of Airport space
   
111.13   Other laws
   
111.14   Airport Manager authority
General Use of Airport
   
111.25   Authorization
   
111.26   Non-commercial
   
111.27   Indemnification of owner
   
111.28   Violations
   
111.29   Solicitation
   
111.30   Disposal
Rules and Regulations
   
111.45   Motor vehicle regulations
   
111.46   Aircraft operations regulations
   
111.47   Rules for fueling operations
   
111.48   Fire regulations
   
111.49   Minimum requirements for all fixed base operations
   
111.50   Receiving and processing applications for commercial operations
   
111.51   Special airport uses
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 AUTHORITY.
   The rules and regulations in this chapter are adopted pursuant to G.S. §
153A-275, which statute permits a county by ordinance to adopt reasonable rules
and regulations to protect and regulate a public enterprise belonging to or
operated by it.
(Ord. passed 8-16-2004)
§ 111.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish rules, regulations, and
standards for all activities on or at the Harnett County Airport (HRJ).
(Ord. passed 8-16-2004)
§ 111.03 STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   The Harnett County Airport intends to operate, manage, plan, finance, and
develop the Airport for its long-term financial health and safety in a manner
consistent with accepted airport practices and applicable federal, state, and
local policies and regulations. Accordingly, all applicants who perform
commercial aeronautical activities at the Airport shall be accorded a fair and
reasonable opportunity, without unlawful discrimination, to qualify and to
compete (if applicable) to occupy available Airport facilities. Applicants
shall have the opportunity to provide appropriate aeronautical activities
subject to the minimum standards as established by the county. However, the
granting of rights and privileges to individuals and businesses to engage in
aeronautical activities shall not be construed in any manner as affording any
operator an exclusive right for use of the premises and/or facilities at the
Airport, other than those premises which may be leased exclusively to any
operator, and then only to the extent provided in a written lease and/or
permit. While the Airport Manager has the authority to manage the Airport
(including the authority to interpret, administer, and enforce Airport
agreements and Airport owner policies and the authority to permit temporary,
short-term occupancy of the Airport), the ultimate authority to grant the
occupancy and use of Airport real estate or permits allowing the conduct of
commercial aeronautical activities, and to approve, amend, or supplement all
leases and permits is expressly reserved to the county.
(Ord. passed 8-16-2004)
§ 111.04 SPECIAL AVIATION SERVICE OPERATIONS (SASO).
   The Harnett County Airport recognizes that when specialized aviation service
operations (SASO), sometimes known as single service operators or special fixed
base operators, apply to do business on the Airport, difficulties can arise if
the SASOs are not required to comply with all provisions of published minimum
standards. Accordingly, the Airport may develop reasonable, relevant, and
applicable standards for each type and class of service. Examples of these
specialized services may include flight training, airframe and power plant
repair and maintenance, aircraft charter, air taxi or air ambulance, aircraft
sales, avionics, instrument or propeller services, or other specialized
commercial flight support business. These minimum standards may be
supplemented, amended, or modified by the county from time to time and in such
manner and to the extent as is deemed reasonable and appropriate.
(Ord. passed 8-16-2004)
§ 111.05 CONFLICTS WITH EXISTING AGREEMENTS OR FEDERAL LAW.
   These minimum standards are not retroactive. They do not affect the current
term of any written agreement properly executed prior to the date of adoption
and approval of these minimum standards. Upon expiration of an existing
agreement, or if the operator desires to materially increase or expand its
activities, the operator shall then comply with the provisions of these minimum
standards. A requirement under these minimum standards or an agreement that an
operator comply with applicable local or state law does not create an
opportunity or right in a sponsor or airport to enact or enforce local
ordinance which is preempted under federal law. This includes any attempt to
regulate airspace or the conduct of flight operations.
(Ord. passed 8-16-2004)
§ 111.06 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A&P MECHANIC. Airplane and power mechanic.
   AERONAUTICAL ACTIVITY. Any activity which involves, makes possible, or is
required for the operation of aircraft, or which contributes to, or is required
for, the safety of such operations. The following activities, commonly
conducted on airports, are AERONAUTICAL ACTIVITIES within this definition:
charter operations; pilot training; aircraft rental; sightseeing; aerial
photography; crop dusting; aerial advertising and surveying; air carrier
operations; aircraft sales and services; sale of aviation petroleum products
whether or not conducted in conjunction with other included activities; repair
and maintenance of aircraft; sale of aircraft parts; ramp services; and any
other activities which because of their direct relationship to the operation of
aircraft can appropriately be regarded as an AERONAUTICAL ACTIVITY. The
following are examples of what are not considered AERONAUTICAL ACTIVITIES:
ground transportation (taxis, car rentals, and limousines); restaurant;
barbershops; and auto parking lots.
   AGREEMENT or LEASE. A contract executed between the Airport and the entity
granting a concession that transfers rights or interests in property, or
otherwise authorizes the conduct of certain activities. The AGREEMENT or LEASE
must be in writing, executed by both parties, and enforceable by law.
   AIR CHARTER. An entity that provides on-demand, non-scheduled passenger
service in aircraft having no more than 30 passenger seats. This entity must
operate under the appropriate federal aviation regulations (FARs).
   AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE. The repair, maintenance, adjustment, or inspection of
aircraft. Major repairs include major alterations to the airframe, powerplant,
and propeller as defined in Part 43 of the FARs. Minor repairs include normal,
routine annual inspection with attendant maintenance, repair, calibration,
adjustment, or repair of aircraft and their accessories.
   AIRCRAFT SALES. The sale of over two aircraft per year with aircraft sales
serving as a business.
   AIRPORT. The Harnett County Airport located at 615 Airport Road, Erwin,
North Carolina.
   AIRPORT LAYOUT PLAN (ALP). A drawing depicting the physical layout of the
Airport that identifies the location and configuration of runways, taxiways,
buildings, roadways, utilities, navaids, and the like. The ALP must also show
planned Airport development.
   AIRPORT MANAGER. The person or corporation empowered by contract with the
Board of Commissioners to operate the business of the Harnett County Airport on
a daily basis. While the AIRPORT MANAGER has the authority to manage the
Airport (including the authority to interpret, administer, and enforce Airport
agreements and Airport owner policies and the authority to permit temporary,
short-term occupancy of the Airport), the ultimate authority to grant the
occupancy and use of the Airport real estate or permits allowing the conduct of
commercial aeronautical activities, and to approve, amend, or supplement all
leases and permits is expressly reserved to the county.
   AIRPORT OPERATING AREA (AOA). The ramp, apron, runway, and taxiway system at
the Airport.
   APRON. A paved area suitable for aircraft staging and parking.
   ASSURANCE. A provision contained in a federal grant agreement to which the
recipient of federal airport development assistance has voluntarily agreed in
consideration for the assistance provided.
   COMMERCIAL AVIATION ACTIVITY. Any aeronautical activity intended to secure
earnings, income, compensation, or profit, whether or not such objectives are
accomplished.
   COMMERCIAL AVIATION OPERATOR. A commercial aviation operator may be
classified as either a fixed base operator (FBO) or a specialized aviation
service operation (SASO).
   ENTITY. A person, persons, firm, partnership, limited liability company,
corporation, unincorporated proprietorship, association, or group.
   EQUIPMENT. All personal property and machinery together with the necessary
supplies, tools, and apparatus necessary for the proper conduct of the activity
being performed.
   EXCLUSIVE RIGHT. A power, privilege, or right that excludes another from
enjoying or exercising a like power, privilege, or right. An EXCLUSIVE RIGHT
can be conferred by express agreement, by the imposition of unreasonable
standards or requirements, or by any other means. Such a right conferred on one
or more parties but excluding others would be an EXCLUSIVE RIGHT.
   FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration.
   FAR. Federal Aviation Regulations.
   FIXED BASE OPERATOR. Any person, partnership, corporation, organization, or
association in the business of, or formed for the purpose of, engaging in
aeronautical activities.
   IMPROVEMENTS. All buildings, structures, and facilities. IMPROVEMENTS may
include pavement, fencing, signs, and landscaping that is constructed,
installed, or placed on, under, or above any leased area.
   MINIMUM STANDARDS. The criteria established by the Airport owner as the
minimum requirements that must be met by businesses in order to engage in
providing on-Airport aeronautical activities or services and aeronautical
related services.
   OPERATOR. As used in this document, the term operator refers to both
commercial and non-commercial operators.
   OWNER. The county as governed by the Board of Commissioners.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, firm, association, or corporation.
   SPECIAL AVIATION SERVICE ORGANIZATION (SASO). An aeronautical business that
offers a single or limited service.
   SPONSOR. The county as governed by the Board of Commissioners, obligated to
the federal government to comply with the assurances contained in grant
agreements or property conveyance instruments. For the purpose of this
document, the terms AIRPORT SPONSOR and AIRPORT OWNER are used interchangeably.
   SUBLEASE. A lease agreement entered into by a lessee with another entity
that transfers rights or interests in property or facilities, and that is
enforceable by law.
(Ord. passed 8-16-2004)
§ 111.07 SCOPE.
   All persons shall be governed by the rules and regulations in this chapter
while on, or occupying, any area comprising the Airport, and shall comply with
the orders and instructions of the Airport Manager, as they are promulgated
from time to time, relative to the use and occupancy of the Airport premises
and Airport facilities.
(Ord. passed 8-16-2004)
§ 111.08 GENERAL AIRPORT INFORMATION.
   The Airport is owned by the county and is operated by the Airport Manager
and persons under his or her supervision. The county sets all general Airport
policy; the Airport Manager implements the general Airport policies set by the
county. The Board of Commissioners is the ruling body of the county.
(Ord. passed 8-16-2004)
§ 111.09 VIOLATION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The Airport Manager shall investigate all alleged violations of
the rules and regulations in this chapter or the terms of any commercial
operator agreement. The Airport Manager will provide written notice to the
violator and will give the violator such time as may be reasonable under the
circumstances to cure any violation in accordance with the provisions of the
rules and regulations in this chapter or any applicable agreement.
      (2)   If the violator fails to comply with the notice of violation, the
county may pursue any penalty or remedy available to the county at law or in
equity.
   (B)   Any person who knowingly or willfully violates the rules and
regulations in this chapter, any rule or regulation then in effect by the
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) or NCDOT, Division of Aviation, or any
orders or instructions of the Airport Manager or county may be removed,
evicted, or denied further use of the Airport.
   (C)   The county may waive or modify any provision contained in the rules
and regulations in this chapter.
   (D)   If sanctions are imposed, the county will offer due process
protections, including the right to be heard and an opportunity for appeal.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall operate as a prohibition to the county
acting in an expedient manner to address immediate safety issues involving
imminent injury to persons or property.
(Ord. passed 8-16-2004) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.10 NO PRIVATE RIGHT OF ACTION.
   Nothing in the rules and regulations in this chapter shall be deemed to have
created any private right of action nor enforcement obligation.
(Ord. passed 8-16-2004)
§ 111.11 STATE AND FEDERAL LAW.
   State and federal law prohibits the granting of exclusive rights to conduct
aeronautical activity at public airports. All aeronautical activities at the
Airport shall be conducted in a fair and equitable manner. Fair competition at
the Airport shall be promoted while safeguarding the public interest. The rules
and regulations in this chapter shall be applied objectively and uniformly. The
county, however, may limit commercial activity if there are compelling reasons
to do so, as defined in the FAA Compliance Handbook, Order 5100.6A and its
successors, even if an applicant has complied with the rules and regulations in
this chapter. Any legal action brought in regards to the rules and regulations
in this chapter shall be brought in accordance with state law.
(Ord. passed 8-16-2004)
§ 111.12 ALLOCATION OF AIRPORT SPACE.
   The Airport Manager shall have the authority to identify and control which
area of the Airport will be used for aeronautical activity available to the
public generally and aeronautical activity available only to specific persons.
(Ord. passed 8-16-2004)
§ 111.13 OTHER LAWS.
   If any provision herein conflicts with any other federal or state law,
statute, rule, or regulation, the federal and state law will prevail.
(Ord. passed 8-16-2004)
§ 111.14 AIRPORT MANAGER AUTHORITY.
   The Airport Manager shall, at all times, have authority to take such
reasonable action as may be necessary to enforce the regulations of this
chapter and to efficiently manage the Airport and its operations. In any
contingencies not specifically covered by the rules and regulations in this
chapter, the Airport Manager shall be authorized to make such reasonable rules,
orders, and decisions as may be necessary and proper.
(Ord. passed 8-16-2004)
GENERAL USE OF AIRPORT
§ 111.25 AUTHORIZATION.
   The owner has the right to and does hereby regulate all commercial
enterprises using the Airport as a basis of operation, whether such operation
is aeronautical or non-aeronautical in nature. No commercial operation of any
kind or type shall be conducted on the Airport unless specifically authorized
by the owner.
(Ord. passed 8-16-2004)
§ 111.26 NON-COMMERCIAL.
   (A)   A flying club is recognized as a plan for the joint ownership of
aircraft and the fair distribution of the cost of maintaining and operating
such aircraft.
   (B)   Such operation is not considered to be commercial in nature when so
operated. Neither is flight instruction by club members for other club members
considered to be commercial in nature so long as there is no profit or for-hire
motive involved in the operation.
   (C)   In all cases, the owner will determine if the operation of a flying
club or other such organization is commercial. If determined to be commercial,
the club shall conform to the requirements set forth herein for commercial
fixed base operators.
(Ord. passed 8-16-2004)
§ 111.27 INDEMNIFICATION OF OWNER.
   (A)   The use of the Airport or any of its facilities in any manner shall
create an obligation on the part of the user thereof to obey all the
regulations herein provided and adopted by the owner.
   (B)   The privilege of using the Airport and its facilities shall be
conditioned on the assumption of full responsibility and risk by the user
thereof, and he or she shall release and hold harmless and indemnify the owner,
its officers and employees from any liability of loss resulting from such use,
as well as claims of third persons to using the Airport.
   (C)   The privilege of using the Airport shall be upon the further condition
that any person, persons, corporations, co-partnership or others desiring to
use the same shall furnish a policy of indemnity against personal injury and
property damage in a reasonable sum as the owner shall require.
(Ord. passed 8-16-2004)
§ 111.28 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating any of the Airport rules and regulations may be
punished as provided by law or ordinance or, at the discretion of the owner,
may be deprived of the use of the Airport facilities for such period of time as
may be necessary to be effective.
(Ord. passed 8-16-2004) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.29 SOLICITATION.
   No person shall solicit funds for any purpose and no signs or advertisements
may be posted at the Airport without permission of the owner.
(Ord. passed 8-16-2004) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.30 DISPOSAL.
   Garbage, refuse, and other waste material shall be placed in receptacles
provided for such purpose and no person shall destroy, remove, or disturb in
any way buildings, signs, equipment, markers, or other property on the Airport.
(Ord. passed 8-16-2004) Penalty, see §
111.99
RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 111.45 MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Unless authorized by the Airport Manager, no highway or automobile
vehicle shall be operated on the Airport except on roadways, parking areas that
are specifically designated for such vehicles. Such vehicles shall be parked in
the manner prescribed by the Airport Manager while on the Airport and as
indicated by posted signs.
   (B)   Maximum speed for Airport runway, taxiways and their respective object
free areas, aprons, and ramps shall be ten mph.
   (C)   No surface vehicles shall be permitted on the runways, taxiways, and
their respective object free areas, aprons, or ramps without the express
permission of the Airport Manager unless the operation of such vehicle is in
accordance with a prior agreement to accomplish a necessary airport purpose,
service, or inspection. The runway object free area extends out 200 feet on
either side of the runway centerline and extends 500 feet beyond each runway
end. The taxiway object free area extends out 45 feet on either side of all
taxiway centerlines.
   (D)   No surface vehicle shall be driven between the loading gate or fence
and an aircraft parked and in the process of loading or unloading.
   (E)   No person shall operate any vehicle in a careless or negligent manner
or in disregard for the safety of others, or in excess of posted speed limits.
All aircraft have right-of-way over all surface vehicles.
   (F)   All vehicles operating within the landing area shall be painted a
bright yellow or international orange, or display an international orange and
white checkered flag of not less than three feet square, with one-foot squares.
   (G)   Vehicles exempted from this section are airport maintenance vehicles,
crash/fire/rescue or other emergency vehicles, law enforcement vehicles,
vehicles used on approved construction projects, vehicles used by the state,
the county, or their designated agents for the purpose of inspecting the
runway, taxiways, or other airport facilities, and other exemptions authorized
by the county.
   (H)   Every accident involving injury or property damage shall be reported
to the Airport Manager.
(Ord. passed 8-16-2004) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.46 AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The FAA traffic rules and regulations governing the operation of
aircraft in effect as of this date, as well as all additions thereto, are made
a part of the Airport rules and regulations in this chapter as fully as if set
forth herein.
   (B)   Aircraft engines shall be started and run up only in the places
designated for such purposes. At no time shall engines be run up when hangars,
shops, airplanes, or any buildings or persons are in the path of the propeller
stream and/or jet exhaust.
   (C)   No aircraft shall be parked or stored at the Airport except in the
areas designated for such use.
   (D)   The performance of aircraft and engine repair and maintenance is
considered to be an aeronautical service regulated by the owner except where
such services or repairs are performed by the aircraft owner or his or her
employees. The Airport owner reserves the right to designate reasonable areas
where such aircraft owners may perform services on their own aircraft. If such
areas are designated, the airport owner may prohibit the performance of such
services in tie-down areas and prescribe rules for the use of such owner-type
aircraft maintenance areas.
   (E)   At the direction of the Airport Manager, the operator, owner, or pilot
of any illegally parked aircraft on the Airport shall move the aircraft to a
legally designated parking area on the Airport. If the operator refuses to
comply with the directions, the owner, through the Airport Manager, may tow the
aircraft to such place, at the operator’s expense and without liability for
damage that may result from such moving.
   (F)   In the event of an accident, the airport owner, through the Airport
Manager, may, in compliance with FAA and other governmental regulations, move
damaged aircraft from the landing areas, ramps, aprons, or other areas at the
expense of the aircraft owner and without liability for damage resulting from
such moving.
   (G)   The pilot of an aircraft involved in an accident on or near the
Airport causing personal injury or property damage shall report to the Airport
Manager. In the event that he or she is unable to do so, the owner of the
aircraft or his or her agent shall make such report.
   (H)   Airport property damaged or destroyed by an accident or otherwise
shall be paid for by parties responsible.
   (I)   The Airport Manager shall have the authority to detain any aircraft
for nonpayment of any charges due.
   (J)   No person shall taxi an aircraft until he or she has ascertained by
visual inspection of the area that there will be no danger of collision with
any person or object in the immediate area.
   (K)   Aircraft shall be taxied at a safe and reasonable speed with due
respect for other aircraft, persons, or property.
   (L)   All takeoffs and landings shall be confined to the runways and all
movement of aircraft shall be confined to the hard surface areas. Exceptions
shall be approved by Airport Manager.
   (M)   No person or persons, except airmen, duly authorized personnel,
passengers going to or from aircraft, or persons being personally conducted by
airport attendants shall be permitted to enter the landing area proper, taxi
space, or aprons. However, this does not give any person or persons so excepted
the privilege of unrestricted use of the Airport. These privileges are confined
to the necessary use of these spaces in connection with the flights,
inspections, and routine duties.
   (N)   No person shall park or store, nor shall they allow any other person
to park or store, any unairworthy aircraft on any portion of the Airport at any
time. Exceptions to this shall be allowed for the purpose of obtaining repair
not to exceed a period of 30 days.
(Ord. passed 8-16-2004) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.47 RULES FOR FUELING OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Only authorized personnel trained in the safe operation of the
equipment they use, in the operation of emergency controls, and in the
procedures to be followed in an emergency shall fuel or defuel aircraft.
   (B)   No aircraft shall be fueled or drained while the aircraft engine is
running or while the aircraft is in a hangar or an enclosed area.
   (C)   During all fuel operations, the aircraft shall be bonded by an
approved method.
   (D)   Smoking or lighting of an open flame shall be prohibited within 50
feet of any fueling operation.
   (E)   Fueling operations shall be conducted and fuel trucks shall be parked
at least 50 feet from any hangar or building.
   (F)   No fuel storage and dispensing equipment shall be installed and used
at the Airport without the prior written approval of the owner. All such
equipment shall be of a modern design and shall be kept in a safe and non-
leaking condition. The use of skid tanks and other such devices is prohibited.
   (G)   Pumps, either hand operated or power operated, shall be used where
aircraft are fueled from drums. Pouring or gravity flow shall not be permitted
from a container with a capacity of more than five gallons (18.9 liters).
(Ord. passed 8-16-2004) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.48 FIRE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Smoking or lighting of an open flame is prohibited at places with
posted signs, within 50 feet of any aircraft, and within 50 feet of hangars,
fuel trucks, or fuel loading stations, and tank farms. No person shall start an
open fire any place on the Airport without permission of the Airport Manager.
No person shall store material or equipment, use inflammable liquids or gases,
or allow his or her premises to become in such condition so as to violate, in
any manner, the fire code in force in the area of the Airport. The storage of
paint thinners, fuels, or other such volatile materials in hangars is
prohibited.
   (B)   Tenants of all hangars and buildings shall provide suitable fire
extinguishers and equipment, and they shall be kept in good condition as
recommended by the Fire Marshal and inspected at least every 12 months by
trained personnel.
   (C)   Tenants and persons are required to keep their premises clean and
clear of all rubbish, junk, debris, old aircraft and vehicles, and unsightly
objects. If, after warning by the Airport Manager, the area is not cleaned,
cleaning will be done by the Airport Manager and billed to the tenant or
person.
(Ord. passed 8-16-2004) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.49 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL FIXED BASE OPERATIONS.
   (A)   General. All fixed base operations at the Airport shall be full-time,
progressive business enterprises, with a manned office facility at the Airport
during all regular business hours. For the purpose of this document, regular
business hours are 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. No fixed base operator shall be
allowed to operate on the Airport without a fully executed lease agreement with
the owner.
   (B)   Fixed base operators selling aviation petroleum products. Fixed base
operators providing sale of aviation petroleum products shall also be required
to meet the minimum standards and offer the services listed in division (I)
below. Such operators may, at their option, engage in other aeronautical
activities by qualifying to meet the associated minimum standards for the
aeronautical services involved.
   (C)   Fixed base operators not selling aviation petroleum products. No
persons or fixed base operators other than the operators qualifying under §
111.48(B) will be permitted to sell aviation petroleum products. All other
fixed base operators may engage in such other aeronautical services as they may
qualify themselves for in accordance with these regulations and their lease
agreements.
   (D)   Substantial conformance. The owner shall determine substantial
conformance to the standards for fixed base operators.
   (E)   Financial solvency. Fixed base operators must show financial solvency
and business ability to the satisfaction of the owner and agree to comply with
all federal, state, local, and Airport laws, rules, and regulations.
   (F)   Insurance. The minimum liability insurance that a fixed base operator
shall carry is $3,000,000 per claimant and $1,000,000 per occurrence for bodily
injury and not less than $1,000,000 for property damage. Fixed base operators
shall also carry the minimum insurance required by the Federal Aviation
Administration and other regulatory agencies as appropriate to the aeronautical
activities being performed. Property owned by the operator shall be insured by
him or her and the owner has no responsibility for any loss.
   (G)   Performance bond. Fixed base operators will be required to furnish the
owner a performance bond commensurate with the construction required under the
minimum standards established by the owner for the facility involved.
   (H)   Land policy. Land available for commercial aeronautical activities is
a valuable and limited commodity. It is the policy of the owner that no land
areas or building space in excess of present and foreseeable requirements will
be leased to any fixed base operator. Additional areas will be made available
to operators on the basis of need and availability.
   (I)   Fuel and oil sales. 
      (1)   Persons conducting aviation fuel and oil sales on the Airport shall
be required to provide:
         (a)   Hard surface ramp space accessible by taxiway with electric
pumps and tank storage having a capacity equal to the minimum tank truck load
deliverable for 80/87 and 100/130 grade aviation fuel and, if public demand
requires, also provide standard jet fuel;
         (b)   Properly trained line personnel on duty at least eight hours of
every calendar day, seven days a week, and on call by readily accessible
telephone at other hours during the day or night;
         (c)   Proper equipment for repairing and inflating aircraft tires,
servicing oleo struts, changing engine oil, washing aircraft and aircraft
window and windshields, and for recharging or energizing discharged aircraft
batteries and starters;
         (d)   Conveniently located (air-conditioned) lounge or waiting rooms
for passengers, and airplane crews of itinerant aircraft, together with
sanitary restrooms and public telephones;
         (e)   Adequate towing equipment and parking and tie-down area to
safely and efficiently move aircraft and store them in all reasonably expected
weather conditions; and
         (f)   Adequate inventory of generally accepted grades of aviation
engine oil and lubricants.
      (2)   In conducting refueling operations, every operator shall install
and use adequate grounding facilities at fueling location to eliminate the
hazards of static electricity and shall provide approved types of fire
extinguishers or other equipment commensurate with the hazard involved in
refueling and servicing aircraft.
   (J)   Aircraft maintenance and repair. All persons operating aircraft engine
and accessory maintenance facilities shall provide:
      (1)   Sufficient hangar space to house any aircraft upon which such
service is being performed;
      (2)   Suitable storage space for aircraft awaiting maintenance or
delivery after repair and maintenance has been completed;
      (3)   Adequate shop space to house the equipment and adequate equipment
and machine tools, jacks, lifts, and testing equipment to perform top overhauls
as required for FAA certification and repair of parts not needing replacement
on all single engine land and light multi-engine land general aviation
aircraft;
      (4)   At least one FAA certified airframe and engine mechanic available
during eight hours of the day, five days per week;
      (5)   Facilities for washing and cleaning aircraft;
      (6)   Non-airworthy aircraft shall be screened from public view; and
      (7)   Separately partitionable space with adequate exhaust fans and fire
protection for spray painting if this type of work is performed.
   (K)   Flight training. All persons conducting flight-training activities
shall meet all required Federal Aviation Administration regulations and shall
provide:
      (1)   Properly certified flight instructors for the appropriate level of
training;
      (2)   Appropriate aircraft properly equipped and maintained for flight
instruction and such additional types of aircraft as may be required to give
flight instruction of the kind advertised;
      (3)   At least 400 square feet of office, lounge, and restroom area. The
operator must provide adequate classroom space for at least ten students with
proper restroom and seating facilities. A part of the required facilities, with
the consent of the owner, may be located off Airport property;
      (4)   Adequate mock-ups, pictures, slides, or other visual aids necessary
to provide proper ground school instruction;
      (5)   Properly certified ground school instructor providing regularly
scheduled ground school instructions sufficient to enable students to pass the
FAA written examinations for private pilot and commercial ratings. The operator
must maintain the necessary classroom space properly equipped for ground school
instruction commensurate with FAR requirements of a certified pilot school or
provisional pilot school and shall hold a current and valid pilot school
certificate or provisional pilot school certificate;
      (6)   Continuing ability to meet certification requirements of the FAA
for the flight training proposed; and
      (7)   Adequate public liability and property damage insurance sufficient
to protect the operator from legal liabilities involved.
   (L)   Aircraft charter and taxi service. Persons operating aircraft charter
and taxi service shall provide:
      (1)   Passenger lounge, restrooms, and telephone facilities as required
of an operator for fuel and oil sales;
      (2)   Adequate table, desk, or counter for checking in passengers,
handling ticketing or fare collection, handling of luggage;
      (3)   Properly certificated suitable aircraft with properly certificated
and qualified operating crew available for services when not otherwise engaged
in such service. Such crew and aircraft shall be available upon call within one
hour’s notice; and
      (4)   Passenger liability insurance of at least $1,000,000 per passenger
seat and property damage liability of at least $1,000,000.
   (M)   Aircraft rental and sales. Persons conducting aircraft rental and
sales activity shall provide:
      (1)   Suitable office space for consummating sales and/or rentals and the
keeping of the proper records in connection thereof;
      (2)   Hangar storage space for at least one aircraft to be used for sales
or rental;
      (3)   For rental, at least one airworthy aircraft suitably maintained and
certificated;
      (4)   Adequate facilities for servicing and repairing the aircraft or
satisfactory arrangements with other operators on the Airport for such service
and repair;
      (5)   There shall be available, at least during eight hours of the
working day, a properly certificated pilot capable of demonstrating new
aircraft for sale or for checking out rental aircraft;
      (6)   The minimum stock of readily expendable spare parts, or adequate
arrangements for securing spare parts required for the type of aircraft and
models sold;
      (7)   Current up-to-date specifications and price lists for types and
models of new aircraft sold; and
      (8)   Proper checklists and operating manuals on all aircraft rented and
adequate parts catalogue and service manual on new aircraft sold.
   (N)   Crop dusting and spraying. Persons seeking to conduct crop dusting or
spraying of agricultural chemicals shall be required to satisfy the Airport
Manager that:
      (1)   Suitable arrangements have been provided for the safe storage and
containment of noxious chemical materials; no poisonous or inflammable
materials shall be kept or stored in close proximity to other facility
installations at the Airport;
      (2)   The operator shall have available properly certificated aircraft
suitably equipped for the agricultural operation undertaken;
      (3)   No crop dusting operation shall be conducted on the principal
public use apron or ramp of the Airport. Owner shall assign adequate
operational space; and
      (4)   An agreement shall be in place holding the county harmless in case
of accidental spills and other accidents caused by the operation.
   (O)   Miscellaneous operations. Operations such as radio and instrument
repairs, aerial advertising, aircraft tie-down, and other aeronautical
activities not herein before provided for may be conducted by any person, firm,
or corporation upon application to and approval of the owner. Reasonable terms
and conditions for the privilege of engaging in these various services will be
established by the owner commensurate with the nature and scope of the
activities involved.
   (P)   Multiple services. Hangar space, office and lounge space, aircraft
parking area, and other such required facilities will be coterminous or
concurrent requirements where an operator offers multiple services to the
extent that such facility requirements will be reasonable.
   (Q)   Minimum standards for hangars, shops, or other buildings. Hangars,
shops, and other buildings shall be constructed of metal or masonry materials
or a combination of the two with an exterior light tan color. Floor areas shall
be concrete. Storage hangars shall contain ten units for aircraft storage.
Maintenance shops and corporate hangars shall contain a minimum of 6,400 square
feet of floor space. These buildings shall be fireproofed and of metal or
masonry construction, properly designed doors at both ends, stressed in
accordance with the National Building Code, floor of properly constructed
concrete or asphalt or sufficient designed load strength to sustain all types
of aircraft using the facility. A minimum area of 640 square feet of office
space, restrooms, and lounge which may be an adjunct to other buildings, must
also be fireproofed and of steel or masonry construction. Larger facilities
should allow 10% of total square footage for office space, restrooms, and
lounge area.
   (R)   Aircraft parking aprons. Aircraft parking aprons shall be constructed
according to plans and specifications approved by the owner. Areas of aircraft
parking apron may be required for operators selling aviation petroleum
products, ramp services, and aircraft repair.
   (S)   Discriminatory practices. All services shall be provided on a fair,
equal, and not unjustly discriminatory basis to all users of the Airport. The
prices charge for each unit of service shall be fair, reasonable, and not
unjustly discriminatory; provided, that the operator may be allowed to make
reasonable and nondiscriminatory discounts, rebates, or other similar type
price reductions to volume purchasers.
   (T)   Civil Rights Act. The operator shall provide his or her services in
accordance with the provisions of 42 U.S.C. § 2000d et seq. Accordingly, no
person shall be denied equal services on the ground of race, color, or national
origin.
(Ord. passed 8-16-2004) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.50 RECEIVING AND PROCESSING APPLICATIONS FOR COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Any applicant wishing to establish an aeronautical activity on the
Airport shall be furnished a copy of these minimum standards, as amended, and
shall make application in writing to the owner, setting forth in detail the
following:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The proposed land use, facility and/or activity sought;
      (3)   The names and qualifications of the personnel to be involved in
conducting such activity;
      (4)   The financial responsibility and technical ability of the applicant
and operator to carry out the activity sought;
      (5)   The tools, equipment, services, and inventory, if any, proposed to
be furnished in connection with such activity;
      (6)   The requested or proposed date for commencement of the activity and
the term of conducting the same; and
      (7)   The estimated cost of any structure or facility to be furnished,
the proposed specifications for same, and the means or method of financing such
construction or acquisition of facilities.
   (B)   Upon the filing of such an application with the owner, it shall be
immediately referred to the appropriate committee and considered at the next
scheduled meeting. If no meeting is scheduled within 30 days from the filing of
such application, a meeting shall be called for considering same and notice
thereof given to the applicant. Applications shall be consistent with the
intended use of the Airport and to promote safe aeronautical activities.
   (C)   Upon consideration of the application, the owner shall determine
whether or not the applicant meets the standards and qualifications as herein
established and whether or not such application should be granted in whole or
in part.
   (D)   Upon approval of any such application in principle, the owner shall
cause to be prepared a suitable lease or contract agreement setting forth the
terms and conditions under which the fixed base operation shall be conducted.
   (E)   Any rejected application shall be returned to the applicant within ten
days of the rejection with a written explanation of the reasons for the
rejection.
(Ord. passed 8-16-2004)
§ 111.51 SPECIAL AIRPORT USES.
   (A)   The owner obligates itself to operate the Airport for the use and
benefit of the general public and to keep the Airport open to the various
types, kinds, and classes of aeronautical use for which the Airport facility is
designed and intended to serve.
   (B)   The owner has established these rules to be met by all users so as to
provide for the safe and efficient use of the Airport and to otherwise protect
the safety of persons and property both on the ground and in the air.
   (C)   It is understood that the landing area facilities constructed are
primarily intended for the use of powered aircraft whose weights are not in
excess of the published pavement strengths may be permitted on an infrequent
basis with the permission of the owner.
   (D)   No operations involving non-powered aircraft, including gliders,
balloons, parachuting, and other unusual and special classes of aeronautical
activities, will be permitted on the Airport without the prior written approval
of the owner.
   (E)   Considering the owner’s obligation to keep the Airport open to the
public for aeronautical purposes, the Airport facilities will not be used for
non-aeronautical events which would conflict with its aeronautical use.
(Ord. passed 8-16-2004) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   If any person shall violate or fail to comply with any provision of
the rules and regulations in this chapter, then he or she shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. § 14-4 (or any amendment thereof). Any person who
violates, or aids, or abets in a violation of any of the rules and regulations
in this chapter or other county rule or regulation shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500 for each offense.
Each calendar day upon which any such violation occurs or continues shall
constitute a separate offense. The county also retains the right to enforce the
terms of this chapter pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 153A-123.
   (B)   The penalties provided in this section shall be deemed to be
cumulative and not a substitution of any other specific penalties as may be
otherwise provided for herein or in any other ordinance, rule, or regulation of
the county as now or as may be hereafter enacted or adopted, or amended, or
modified.
(Ord. passed 8-16-2004)
CHAPTER 112: SAFETY SERVICES AND BUSINESSES
Section
Ambulance Service
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Violations
   
112.03   Enforcement
   
112.04   Territorial jurisdiction
   
112.05   Franchise required
   
112.06   Fee
   
112.07   Application
   
112.08   Granting of franchise
   
112.09   Standards for ambulance franchise
   
112.10   Standards for drivers and attendants
   
112.11   Standards for vehicles and equipment
   
112.12   Standards for communications
   
112.13   Insurance
   
112.14   Records
   
112.15   Rates and charges
   
112.16   Inspection of records authorized
Alarm Systems
   
112.25   Authority
   
112.26   Purpose
   
112.27   Definitions
   
112.28   Registration of alarm companies
   
112.29   Application for permit to use and operate an alarm system
   
112.30   Right of inspection
   
112.31   Alarm logs
   
112.32   Installation and maintenance of alarm receiving system
   
112.33   Allocation of revenues
 
   
112.99   Penalty
AMBULANCE SERVICE
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMBULANCE. Any publicly or privately owned vehicle that is specially
designed, constructed, or modified and equipped, and is intended to be used
for, and is maintained or operated for, the transportation upon the streets and
highways in this state of persons who are sick, injured, wounded, or otherwise
incapacitated or helpless.
   AMBULANCE ATTENDANT. The individual who is responsible for the operation of
an ambulance and rendering assistance to the emergency medical technician
during the transportation of a patient.
   AMBULANCE PROVIDER. An individual, firm, corporation, association, or
enterprise, licensed by the state, who engages in the business or service of
transporting patients in an ambulance.
   APPROVED. Approved by the state medical care commission pursuant to the
latter’s rules and regulations promulgated under G.S. § 143B-165.
   CONTRACTED EMS AGENCY. A municipal or county agency or private, nonprofit
organization which contracts with the county to provide emergency medical
services as part of the county EMS system.
   EMERGENCY and EMERGENCY TRANSPORTATION SERVICE. The use of an ambulance, its
equipment and personnel to provide medical care and transportation of a patient
who is in need of immediate medical treatment in order to prevent loss of life
or further aggravation of physiological or psychological illness or injury.
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL DISPATCH. The approved program with procedures established
for the management and delivery of emergency medical assistance by a public or
private agency that sends emergency medical.
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN (EMT). An individual who has completed a
training program in emergency medical care at least equal to the national
standard training program for emergency medical technicians as defined by the
United States Department of Transportation and has been certified as an
emergency medical technician by the state office of emergency medical service.
   FRANCHISE. A permit issued by the county to a person or organization for the
operation of an ambulance service within a specific geographic area of the
county.
   FRANCHISEE. A person or organization who has been issued a franchise by the
county for operating as an ambulance provider.
   LICENSE. Any driver’s license or permit to operate a motor vehicle issued
under or granted by the laws of the state.
   MEDICAL RESPONDER. An individual who has completed a training program in
emergency medical care and first aid approved by the State Department of Health
and Human Services and has been certified as a medical responder by the
Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Emergency Medical Services.
   NON-EMERGENCY TRANSPORTATION SERVICE. The operation of an ambulance for any
purpose other than an emergency.
   OPERATOR. A person in actual physical control of an ambulance which is in
motion or which has the engine running.
   OWNER. Any person or entity who owns an ambulance service.
   PATIENT. An individual who is sick, injured, wounded, or otherwise
incapacitated or helpless, such that the need for some medical assistance might
be anticipated while being transported to or from a medical facility.
   RESCUE. Situations where the victim cannot escape an area through the normal
exit or under his or her own power.
   RESPONDER. An organization with personnel trained in emergency medical care
that is dispatched to the scene of a medical emergency for the primary purpose
of providing emergency medical assistance to a patient until an ambulance and
additional medical aid arrives.
   SECONDARY AMBULANCE PROVIDER. The system of personnel and equipment meeting
the same criteria as a primary ambulance provider, but not normally dispatched
on first call response.
   SPECIALTY CARE TRANSPORT. The inter-facility transportation of a critically
injured or ill beneficiary by a ground ambulance, including the provision of
medically necessary supplies and services, at a level of service beyond the
scope of the EMT-paramedic.
   TELECOMMUNICATOR. A person who is available at all times to receive request
for emergency services, to dispatch emergency services, and to advise local law
enforcement agencies, fire departments, and emergency medical facilities of any
existing or threatened emergency.
(Ord. passed 7-6-1999; Ord. 2022-16, passed 6-20-2022)
§ 112.02 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to obtain or receive
ambulance service without intending at the time of obtaining or receiving such
services to pay, if financially able, the necessary charges. A determination
that the recipient of such services has failed to pay for the services rendered
for a period of 90 days after request for payment, and that the recipient is
financially able to do so, shall raise a presumption that the recipient of the
services did not intend to pay for the services at the time they were obtained
or received.
   (B)   Violation of this chapter or the terms of any franchise granted
hereunder shall be a misdemeanor as provided by G.S. § 14-4. Each such
violation also shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in the amount of
$100 for each separate breach of the franchise or violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-16, passed 6-20-2022)
§ 112.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Harnett County Emergency Services Director shall be responsible
for:
      (1)   Overseeing of the regulations contained within this chapter.
      (2)   Receiving all franchise proposals from potential providers.
      (3)   Reviewing each proposal for conformance to this chapter.
      (4)   Recommending to the Board of Commissioners the approval or
disapproval of the franchise of the applicant submitting the proposal.
      (5)   Ensuring by cooperative agreement with other ambulance services the
continued service in a district where an ambulance service in a district where
an ambulance service franchise has been suspended, and maintaining all records
required by this chapter and other applicable county regulations.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the ambulance provider to ensure
that the ambulance operation complies with the provisions of this chapter and
all rules adopted for this chapter. Upon the violation of any part of this
chapter or any rule adopted under authority of this chapter, the county shall
have the power to revoke or suspend the franchise of the violator. The
operation of an ambulance without a valid franchise or after a franchise has
been suspended or revoked or without an emergency medical technician and/or
medical responder aboard as required by G.S. § 131E-158, shall constitute a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine or imprisonment or both in the discretion of
the court.
(Ord. passed 7-6-1999; Ord. 2022-16, passed 6-20-2022) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all unincorporated areas
within the geographic confines of the county and to such incorporated areas as
may by resolution permit this chapter to be applicable with such incorporated
areas.
(Ord. 2022-16, passed 6-20-2022)
§ 112.05 FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, either as owner, agent, or otherwise, shall furnish,
operate, conduct, maintain, advertise, or otherwise be engaged in the business
or service of emergency and/or non-emergency ambulance services, convalescent
ambulant service, or specialty care transport service within the geographic
boundaries of the county unless the person holds a valid permit for each
ambulance used in such business or service issued by the Office of Emergency
Medical Services of the State Department of Human Resources and has been
granted a franchise for the operation of such business or service by the county
pursuant to this chapter or has been exempted from a franchise pursuant to this
chapter.
   (B)   No franchise shall be required for:
      (1)   Any entity operated from a location or headquarters outside of the
county in order to transport patients who are picked up beyond the limits of
the county, to facilities located within the county, or to pick up patients
within the county for transporting to locations outside the county; but no such
entity shall be used to pick up patients within the county for transporting to
locations within the county or other locations unless it is rendering
assistance to a franchised ambulance service in the case of a major
catastrophe, mutual aid, or emergency with which the services franchised by the
county are insufficient or unable to cope as referred to in this division (B)
(1);
      (2)   An ambulance owned and operated by the state, county, or an agency
of the United States government;
      (3)   A contracted EMS agency;
      (4)   An entity rendering assistance to the system at the request of the
Harnett County Emergency Services Director during a major emergency or when
system resources are insufficient resources to meet the needs of the community
for emergency or non-emergency ambulance services; or
      (5)   Provision of ambulance transportation by a specialist care
transport program operated by a hospital that is physically located within the
geographic limits of the county.
(Ord. passed 7-6-1999; Ord. 2022-16, passed 6-20-2022)
§ 112.06 FEE.
   The fee for applying for a franchise shall be in the amount designated by
the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 7-6-1999; Ord. 2022-16, passed 6-20-2022)
§ 112.07 APPLICATION.
   Application for a franchise to operate ambulances in the county shall be
made upon such forms as may be prepared or prescribed by the county and shall
contain:
   (A)   The name and address of the applicant and of the owner of the
ambulance(s);
   (B)   The trade names, if any, under which the applicant does business or
proposes to do business, along with a certified copy of an assumed name
certificate stating such name or articles of incorporation stating such name;
   (C)   A resume of the training and experience of the applicant in the
transportation and care of patients;
   (D)   A full description of the type and level of service to be provided
including the location of the place or places from which it is intended to
operate, the manner in which the public will be able to obtain assistance and
how the vehicles will be dispatched. A financial statement of the applicant as
the financial statement pertains to the operations in the county. Such
financial statement shall be in such form and in such detail as may be required
by the county;
   (E)   A list of radio frequencies the applicant is authorized to operate on,
and a copy of the FCC license in the name of the person providing the service;
   (F)   A description of the applicant’s capability to provide 24-hour
coverage, seven days per week for the district covered by the franchise applied
for, and an accurate estimate of the minimum and maximum times for a response
to calls within such district;
   (G)   Any information the county shall deem reasonably necessary for a fair
determination of the capability of the applicant to provide ambulance service
in the county in accordance with the requirements of state laws and the
provisions of this subchapter;
   (H)   The county may establish and from time to time revise a schedule of
rates, fees and charges that may be charged by franchised operators; and
   (I)   The county may establish and from time to time revise a schedule of
rates, fees and charges that may be charged for the review of franchise
applications.
(Ord. passed 7-6-1999; Ord. 2022-16, passed 6-20-2022)
§ 112.08 GRANTING OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Prior to accepting applications for the operation of an ambulance
service, the Board of Commissioners may designate specific service areas as
franchise districts. Such districts will be established using criteria that
include geographic size, road access, the location of existing medical
transportation services, population, and response time. The county shall have
the authority to redistrict or rearrange existing districts at any time at its
discretion.
   (B)   An applicant may apply for a franchise to operate emergency transport
or non-emergency transportation service. If both types of service are to be
provided, separate application must be filed for each type.
   (C)   Upon receipt of an application for a franchise, the county will review
the application and, if necessary, will interview the applicant. Within 30 days
after review of the application and interview (if necessary), the county shall
cause such investigation as it may deem necessary to be made of the applicant
and its proposed operations.
   (D)   A franchise may be granted if the county finds that:
      (1)   The applicant shows a reasonable effort to meet state standards and
standards outlined in this chapter;
      (2)   The proposed service will fit within the existing service so as not
to adversely affect the level of service or operations of other franchisees to
render service; and
      (3)   A need exists for the proposed service in order to improve the
level of services available to residents of the county and a reasonable and
cost effective manner of meeting the need.
(Ord. passed 7-6-1999; Ord. 2022-16, passed 6-20-2022)
§ 112.09 STANDARDS FOR AMBULANCE FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The county may issue a franchise under this chapter to an ambulance
provider to be valid for a term to be determined by the county, provided that
either party, at its option, may terminate the franchise upon 60 days prior
written notice to the other party. After a notice of service termination is
given, the ambulance service shall reapply for a franchise if continued service
is desired.
   (B)   Franchised providers receiving revenues from the county through county
contract or subsidy, shall provide adequate and complete information annually
for audit purposes. Failure to do so will result in termination of contract or
subsidy until such information is provided and may at the discretion of the
Board result in revocation of the franchise agreement.
   (C)   Upon suspension, revocation, or termination of a franchise granted
under this chapter, such franchised ambulance service shall immediately cease
operation. Upon suspension, revocation, or termination of a driver’s license or
attendant’s certificate or emergency medical technician certificate, such
person shall cease to drive an ambulance or provide medical care in conjunction
with an ambulance or provide medical care in conjunction with an ambulance
service, or attend an ambulance. The franchisees shall not allow such an
individual to drive an ambulance or provide medical care in conjunction with
the ambulance service, rescue squad, or first responder unit.
   (D)   Each franchised ambulance service shall comply at all times with the
requirements of this chapter, the franchise granted under this chapter, and all
applicable state and local laws relating to health, sanitation, safety,
equipment, ambulance design, and all other laws and ordinances.
   (E)   Prior approval of the county shall be required where ownership or
control of more than 10% of the right of control of franchisees is acquired by
a person or group of persons acting in concert, none of whom own or control 10%
or more of such right of control, singularly or collectively, at the date of
the franchise. By its acceptance of the franchise, the franchisee specifically
agrees that any such acquisition occurring without prior approval of the county
shall constitute a violation of the franchise by the franchisee and shall be
cause for termination at the option of the county.
   (F)   Any change of ownership of a franchised ambulance service without the
approval of the county shall terminate the franchise and shall require a new
application and a new franchise and conformance with all the requirements of
this chapter.
   (G)   Any change in the level of service offered by a franchised ambulance
service, rescue/EMS agency, or first responder unit without the approval of the
county shall terminate the franchise and shall require a new application and a
new franchise and conformance with all the requirements of this chapter upon
original franchising.
   (H)   No franchise may be sold, assigned, mortgaged, or otherwise
transferred without the approval of the county and a finding of conformance
with all requirements of this chapter upon original franchising. Each
franchised ambulance service, its equipment, and the premises designated in the
application and all records relating to its maintenance and operation, as such,
shall be open to inspection by the state, county, or their designated
representatives.
(Ord. passed 7-6-1999; Ord. 2022-16, passed 6-20-2022) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.10 STANDARDS FOR DRIVERS AND ATTENDANTS.
   Standards for drivers and attendants as developed by the state medical care
commission as requirements for certification of medical responders and
emergency medical technicians pursuant to the General Statutes and rules and
regulations promulgated by the Board of Medical Examiners for Advanced Life
Support Technicians shall be applied and the same are incorporated in this
chapter by reference.
(Ord. passed 7-6-1999; Ord. 2022-16, passed 6-20-2022) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.11 STANDARDS FOR VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT.
   Vehicle and equipment standards as developed by the state Medical Care
Commission pursuant to G.S. Chapter 130, Art. 26, § 130-232, and G.S. Chapter
143, Art. 56, §§ 143-507 et seq., shall be applied; and the same are
incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. passed 7-6-1999; Ord. 2022-16, passed 6-20-2022)
§ 112.12 STANDARDS FOR COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   Each ambulance shall be equipped with an operational two-way radio
capable of establishing good quality voice communications from within the
geographic confines of the county to each hospital emergency department in the
county in which the ambulance is based. Each ambulance vehicle shall be
equipped with two-way radio communication capabilities for communications with
all hospital emergency departments to which transportation of patients is made
on a regular or routine basis anywhere within the state. Each ambulance vehicle
shall be equipped with an operational two-way radio capable of establishing
good quality voice communications from within the geographic confines of the
county in which the ambulance dispatching agency is located.
   (B)   Each ambulance provider shall maintain current authorizations or
Federal Communications Commission licenses for all frequencies and radio
transmitters operated by that provider. Copies of all authorizations and
licenses shall be on display and available for inspection per Federal
Communication Commission’s rules and regulations.
   (C)   Each base of operations must have at least one open telephone line.
Telephone numbers must be registered with each law enforcement agency and
communications center in the county.
   (D)   Each ambulance shall be dispatched from the county communications
center or an acceptable and approved alternative.
(Ord. passed 7-6-1999; Ord. 2022-16, passed 6-20-2022) Penalty see §
112.99
§ 112.13 INSURANCE.
   No ambulance franchise shall be issued under this subchapter, nor shall such
franchise be valid after issuance, nor shall any ambulance be operated in the
county unless there is at all times in force and effect either insurance
coverage issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in this state,
or a bond with personal or corporate surety, for each ambulance owned and/or
operated by or for the ambulance service, providing for the payment of damages
in the following sums:
   (A)   In the minimum sum of $1,000,000 for injury to or death of one
individual and a minimum of $1,000,000 per accident in accidents resulting from
any cause for which the owner of such vehicle would be liable on account of
liability imposed on him by law, regardless of whether the ambulance was being
driven by the owner or his agency.
   (B)   In the minimum sum of $500,000 for the loss of or damage to the
property of another, including personal property, under like circumstances, in
sums as may be required by the state or as approved by the county.
   (C)   The franchisee shall hold harmless and indemnify the county, form and
against any and all liabilities, costs, damages, expenses, and attorney’s fees
resulting from or attributable to any and all acts and omissions of the
franchisee. All franchisees shall maintain an errors and omissions policy in an
amount not less than $1,000,000. To the extent that any such liabilities,
costs, damages, expenses, and attorney’s fees are compensated for by insurance,
the franchisee shall not be required to reimburse the county or the insurer for
the same.
(Ord. passed 7-6-1999; Ord. 2022-16, passed 6-20-2022)
§ 112.14 RECORDS.
   Each franchisee under this chapter shall maintain the following records:
   (A)   Record of dispatch. The record of dispatch shall show time call was
received, time ambulance dispatched, time arrived on scene, time arrived at
destination, time in service, and time returned to base.
   (B)   Trip record. The trip record shall state all information required in
division (A) above in addition to information on a form approved by the county.
The trip record shall be so designed as to provide the patient with a copy
thereof containing all required information. A copy of the trip record may
serve as a receipt for any charges paid.
   (C)   Driver and attendant checklist and inspection report. The driver and
attendant checklist and inspection report shall list contents and description
of operations for each vehicle, signed by the individual verifying vehicle
operations and equipment.
   (D)   Other data. Other data shall be submitted as requested by the Harnett
County Emergency Services Director or designee.
(Ord. passed 7-6-1999; Ord. 2022-16, passed 6-20-2022) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.15 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Each franchisee under this chapter shall submit a schedule of rates to
the county for approval and shall not charge more nor less than the approved
rates without specific approval by the county.
   (B)   No ambulance service shall attempt to collect rates on calls until the
patient has reached the point of destination, has received medical attention,
and is in a condition deemed by the physician fit to consult with the ambulance
service; but, such service may attempt to collect rates with the family or
guardian of the patient once the patient is in the process of receiving medical
attention.
   (C)   On non-emergency calls, or calls where a person requires
transportation to a nonemergency facility, attempts to collect payment can be
made before the ambulance begins its trip.
(Ord. passed 7-6-1999; Ord. 2022-16, passed 6-20-2022) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.16 INSPECTION OF RECORDS AUTHORIZED.
   The county may inspect a franchisee’s records, premises, and equipment at
any time in order to ensure compliance with this subchapter and any franchise
granted hereunder.
(Ord. passed 7-6-1999; Ord. 2022-16, passed 6-20-2022)
ALARM SYSTEMS
§ 112.25 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to G.S. § 153A-121 to regulate acts
detrimental to the health, safety, and welfare of its citizens and as permitted
by G.S. § 74C-3.
(Ord. passed 7-7-1981)
§ 112.26 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is for alarm system companies doing business
in the county to register their names and file copies of their certification
from the Private Protective Services Board of the state; further, to regulate
usage of alarm systems and require permits when usage involves the automatic
signal transmission to a county law enforcement agency, with the desired end of
minimizing the waste of law enforcement resources caused by false alarms and
minimizing the hazard to the general public that would be caused by law
enforcement vehicles responding, as in emergency situations, to false alarm
calls.
(Ord. passed 7-7-1981)
§ 112.27 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any electronic or mechanical device transmitting an alarm
signal outside the location intended to alert law enforcement personnel to an
actual or attempted unauthorized entry into a building or to the commission or
attempted commission of a crime and/or to alert fire personnel of a fire. The
definition shall include, but not be limited to, silent, audible, and direct
telephone dialer alarms.
   ALARM SYSTEM BUSINESS. Any person, firm, association, partnership, group of
persons, or corporation which installs, services, or responds to electrical,
electronic, or mechanical alarms, signal devices, burglar alarms, television
camera, or still cameras used to detect burglary, breaking or entering,
intrusion, shoplifting, pilferage, vandalism, fire, or theft for a fee or other
valuable consideration. Provided, however, it shall not include a business
which merely sells or manufactures alarm systems unless such business services,
installs, monitors, or responds to alarm systems at the protected premises.
This definition does not include a person employed regularly and exclusively as
an employee by one employer in connection with the business affairs of such an
employer. Provided further, the regulation of ALARM SYSTEM BUSINESSES shall not
include installation, servicing, or responding to any alarm system or device
which is installed in a motor vehicle, aircraft, or boat.
   ALARM USER. Any person, firm, association, or corporation of any kind in
control of any building, structure, or facility wherein an alarm system which
is intended to transmit message to the Sheriff’s Department is installed,
operated, and maintained.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The Board of Commissioners of the County of Harnett.
   COMMUNICATIONS CENTER. That area, room, or space designated or set aside by
the Sheriff for the purpose of answering telephones, monitoring alarms,
dispatching of emergency vehicles whether fire, police, sheriff, rescue, or
civil defense personnel.
   COUNTY. The County of Harnett.
   FALSE ALARM. An alarm signal indicating that an entry or other crime was
committed or attempted when, in fact, evidence indicates, upon inspection after
response to the alarm, that the alarm was activated through the alarm user’s
negligence or equipment malfunction within the control of the alarm user or
alarm business operator. An alarm signal caused by conditions of nature, such
as storms, tornados, hurricanes, or other extraordinary circumstances not
reasonably subject to control by the alarm user or alarm business operator
shall not be deemed a FALSE ALARM. An alarm signal transmitted during testing
procedures approved in advance by the communications center or a designee of
the center shall not be deemed a FALSE ALARM.
   SHERIFF. The Sheriff of Harnett County or any designated person acting in
his or her behalf.
   SPECIAL TRUNKLINE. A telephone line leading into the Sheriff’s Department’s
communications center having the primary purpose of receiving alarm signals or
messages.
   TELEPHONE COMPANY. A utility that furnishes service within the geographical
boundaries of the county.
(Ord. passed 7-7-1981)
§ 112.28 REGISTRATION OF ALARM COMPANIES.
   (A)   No person, persons, firms, associations, partnerships, cooperatives,
or corporations shall install or repair any alarm system in the county without
first registering with the county.
   (B)   Such registration shall be upon forms supplied by the county and shall
include, at a minimum, the name, address, telephone number, and a copy of the
alarm system business’s certification from the Private Protective Services
Board of the state.
   (C)   Anyone not so registered shall not be permitted access to any of the
equipment, wires, terminals, alarm receiving panel, or any other appurtenances
of any alarm system in the county.
(Ord. passed 7-7-1981) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.29 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT TO USE AND OPERATE AN ALARM SYSTEM.
   (A)   Applications for permits to use and operate an alarm system which is
intended to automatically transmit a signal, message, or warning to the
Sheriff’s Department shall be filed with the County Manager on forms supplied
by the county, together with an application fee of $20. Said applications shall
include the name, address, and telephone number of the person, persons, firm,
corporation, or company who will be using the alarm system as well as a
description of the premises where the system will be used and its location.
   (B)   The County Manager shall approve the application if he or she finds
that the use of said alarm system to transmit a signal, message, or warning to
the Sheriff’s Department will not interfere with the orderly conduct of county
business.
   (C) The county, its agents, servants, and employees shall not be responsible
for the installation, maintenance, servicing, or functioning of the alarm
system and all permits issued shall bear a warning to that affect.
(Ord. passed 7-7-1981)
§ 112.30 RIGHT OF INSPECTION.
   The Sheriff of the county or his or her designee shall have the right to
test any alarm system on the premises where it is intended to function prior to
issuance of any permit for its operation, and he or she may cause a test of
such system to be made at any time after issuance of a permit to determine
whether it is being used in conformity with the terms of the permit and the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 7-7-1981) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.31 ALARM LOGS.
   (A)   There shall be maintained in the Sheriff’s Department a log in which
shall be entered the names of all persons who seek or are granted access to any
part of the communications center. The log shall also show the date and time
such person seeks or is granted such access and the purpose for such access.
   (B)   As a part of this log book, the names, addresses, and telephone number
of each of the companies which has installed an alarm system shall be shown
together with a designation of which system or systems said company has
installed.
(Ord. passed 7-7-1981)
§ 112.32 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF ALARM RECEIVING SYSTEM.
   The Sheriff’s Department, by whatever method or arrangement it deems best,
shall provide for the receiving of alarms with the Sheriff’s Department. No
company which has not been designated to install or maintain such receiving
equipment shall install, repair, or maintain such equipment and facilities. All
companies wishing to connect to the receiving equipment shall give the company
designated by the Sheriff’s Department to make such connections reasonable
notice prior to such connection being made.
(Ord. passed 7-7-1981) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.33 ALLOCATION OF REVENUES.
   All fees, fines, and forfeitures of bail collected pursuant to this
subchapter shall be general fund revenue for the county.
(Ord. passed 7-7-1981) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to obtain or receive
ambulance service pursuant to §§
112.01 through 112.11 without intending at the time of obtaining or receiving
such services to pay, if financially able, the necessary charges. A
determination that the recipient of such services has failed to pay for the
services rendered for a period of 90 days after request for payment, and that
the recipient is financially able to do so, shall raise a presumption that the
recipient of the services did not intend to pay for the services at the time
they were obtained or received.
      (2)   Violation of §§
112.01 through 112.11 or the terms of any franchise granted hereunder pursuant
to §§
112.01 through 112.11 shall be a misdemeanor as provided by G.S. § 14-4. Each
such violation also shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in the amount
of $100 for each separate breach of the franchise or violation of §§
112.01 through 112.11. This civil penalty must be paid within ten days after
the hearing on the citation has been held. If not so paid, such penalty may be
recovered by the county as provided by G.S. § 153A-123(c). If the civil penalty
is not paid within the ten days as provided for above, the county may suspend
or revoke the franchise.
      (3)   If any franchisee shall violate or fail to comply with any
provision of §§
112.01 through 112.11 or a franchise issued under §§
112.01 through 112.11, the franchisee shall be cited by the county for
violation or failure to comply. The county, after a hearing pursuant to this
citation, may impose a civil penalty of $100 for each separate breach of the
franchise as provided in §
112.03(D) or may suspend or revoke the franchise. If, upon such hearing, the
county shall find that the franchisee has corrected any deficiencies and has
brought its operation into compliance with the provisions of §§
112.01 through 112.11, the franchise shall not be suspended or revoked, but a
civil penalty as provided in §
112.03(D) may be imposed.
   (C)   (1)   False alarms resulting from any alarm system tied into the
communications center constitute a public nuisance, and shall cause the alarm
user to be assessed a civil penalty which may be recovered by the county in a
civil action in the nature of a debt.
      (2)   Alarm users required to have permits shall keep the communications
center notified of at least two persons available at all times to respond to an
activated alarm system within 30 minutes of notification. A change in the two
persons must be made in a written notification to the Sheriff. Failure to meet
these requirements shall constitute a violation subject the alarm user to the
civil penalties detailed below in divisions (C)(3) and (C)(4).
      (3)   The following schedule of civil penalties may be assessed against
an alarm system user in violation of the provisions of §§
112.25 through 112.33:
         (a)   For a first violation and for a second violation within any 90-
day period: no penalty;
         (b)   For a third violation within any 90-day period: $15;
         (c)   For a fourth violation within a 90-day period: $30; and
         (d)   For a fifth violation within a 90-day period: $30.
      (4)   If the Sheriff’s Department records five or more false alarms
within a 90-day period:
         (a)   The Sheriff shall notify the alarm user and the alarm system
business providing service to the user by certified mail of such fact and
direct that the user submit a report to the Sheriff within ten days of receipt
of the notice describing actions taken or to be taken to eliminate the cause of
the false alarms;
         (b)   If no report is submitted or if the Sheriff determines that the
actions taken or to be taken will not prevent the occurrence of false alarms,
the Sheriff shall give notice by certified mail to the user that the permit
will be revoked without further notice on the tenth day after the date of the
notice if the user does not file within that period a written request for a
hearing;
         (c)   If a hearing is requested, written notice of the time and place
of the hearing shall be served on the user by the Sheriff by certified mail at
least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing, which date shall not be
more than 21 nor less than ten days after the filing of the request for
hearing;
         (d)   If a hearing is conducted pursuant to division (C)(4)(c) above
at which the Sheriff finds as a fact that the alarm system has been installed,
maintained, or operated in violation of the provisions of §§
112.25 through 112.33, or any term or condition of said permit, the Sheriff
shall revoke the holder’s permit to install or operate the alarm system and
said system shall be disconnected from the communications center. Such
revocation may be appealed to the Board of Commissioners for a de novo hearing,
and from there to the court as permitted by the state general statutes and
shall not be effective pending any appeal; and
         (e)   In case of a revocation, a new permit for the same alarm system
or alarm user may be issued with the approval of the operations officer of the
Sheriff’s Department under the provisions of §§
112.25 through 112.33, upon satisfactory proof that any outstanding civil
penalties have been paid and that the alarm system has been modified to
minimize further violations.
(Ord. passed 7-7-1981; Ord. passed 7-6-1999)
CHAPTER 113: MILITARY PROPERTY SALES
Section
   
113.01   Title
   
113.02   Purpose
   
113.03   Authority
   
113.04   Jurisdiction
   
113.05   Definitions
   
113.06   Military property sales facilities prohibited without license
   
113.07   Licensing procedure
   
113.08   Records
   
113.09   Posting license
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Military Property Sales
Facilities Licensing Ordinance” or “this chapter” or “chapter”.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1986)
§ 113.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to enable suitable persons, partnerships,
associations, or corporations to carry on the business of a military sales
facility in the county.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1986)
§ 113.03 AUTHORITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are adopted under authority granted by G.S.
Chapter 127B, Article 1.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1986)
§ 113.04 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall govern the licensing of military property sales
facilities.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1986)
§ 113.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL. The Harnett County Building Inspector shall be the
Administrative Official. The ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL shall administer and
enforce this chapter. He or she shall determine whether a license applicant has
produced satisfactory evidence of good character. He or she may be provided
with assistance of such other persons as the Board of Commissioners may direct.
   MILITARY PROPERTY. Property originally manufactured for the United States or
the state which is a type and kind issued for use in, or furnished and intended
for, the military service of the United States or the militia of the state.
   MILITARY PROPERTY SALES FACILITY. Any person, partnership, association, or
corporation who engages in the business of selling, consigning, purchasing,
transferring, or in any way acquiring military property for resale, is a
MILITARY PROPERTY SALES FACILITY. Specifically excluded are facilities operated
by the United States Government, the state or any of its agencies and persons,
partnerships, associations, or corporations selling or purchasing military
property pursuant to a contract with the United States Government, the state or
any of its agencies.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1986)
§ 113.06 MILITARY PROPERTY SALES FACILITIES PROHIBITED WITHOUT LICENSE.
   As provided by G.S. § 127B-3, no person, partnership, association, or
corporation shall engage in the business of selling military property or
purchasing military property for resale in the county without first having
obtained a license to do so from the Administrative Official and by paying the
county, state, and municipal tax required by law and otherwise complying with
the requirements made in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1986) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.07 LICENSING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   License granted. Any person, partnership, association, or corporation
who shall produce satisfactory evidence of good character to the Administrative
Official and adheres to the requirements of this chapter shall be granted a
license authorizing such person, partnership, association, or corporation to
carry on the business of a military property sales facility.
   (B)   Content of license. The license shall designate the building in which
the person, partnership, association, or corporation shall carry on the
business, and no person, partnership, association, or corporation shall carry
on the business of a military property sales facility without being duly
licensed, nor in any other building than the one designated in the license.
   (C)   Application for license. Any person or the principal officers of any
association or corporation or all the partners of any partnership applying for
a license shall furnish the Administrative Official the following information:
      (1)   Full name, and any other names used by the applicant during the
preceding five years, or in the case of a partnership, association, or
corporation, the applicant shall list any partnership, association, or
corporate names used during the preceding five years;
      (2)   Current address, and all addresses used by the applicant during the
preceding five years;
      (3)   Physical description;
      (4)   Age;
      (5)   Driver’s license number, if any, and state of issuance;
      (6)   Recent color photograph;
      (7)   Record of felony convictions; and
      (8)   Record of other convictions during the preceding five years.
   (D)   Bond required. Every person, partnership, association, or corporation
so licensed to carry on the business of a military property sales facility
shall, at the time of receiving a license, file with the Administrative
Official a bond payable to the county in the sum of $1,000, to be executed by
the person licensed and by two responsible sureties, or a surety company
licensed to do business in the state, to be approved of by the Administrative
Official. The bond shall be for the faithful performance of the requirements
and obligations pertaining to the business licensed. The Administrative
Official may revoke the license and sue for forfeiture of the bond upon a
breach of the licensee’s duties under the bond. Any person who may obtain a
judgment against a military property sales facility and upon which judgment
execution is returned unsatisfied may maintain an action in his or her own name
upon the bond of the military property sales facility, in any court having
jurisdiction of the amount demanded to satisfy the judgment.
   (E)   Cost of license. The Board of Commissioners shall set a fee, payable
to the Administrative Official, to cover the necessary processing costs of
licenses. The set fee shall be posted in the Administrative Official’s office.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1986)
§ 113.08 RECORDS.
   As provided in G.S. § 127B-6, records shall be kept as hereinafter provided:
   (A)   Every military property sales facility owner shall keep a book in
which shall be legibly written, at the time of each transaction involving the
acquisition by any means of used or new military property by the military
property sales facility owner, his or her employee, or agent, from any person,
partnership, association, or corporation, the following information:
      (1)   An account and description of the used or new military property
including, if applicable, the manufacturer’s name, model, model number, serial
number of the property, and any engraved numbers or initials found on the
property. Property lacking any identifying mark or characteristic shall be
marked by the military property sales facility owner in such a way as to allow
clear identification of the property;
      (2)   The amount of money paid;
      (3)   The date of the transaction; and
      (4)   The name and residence of the person selling, consigning, or
transferring the used or new military property.
   (B)   (1)   The military property sales facility owner or his or her
employee or agent shall require that the person selling the new or used
military property, to present two forms of positive identification to him or
her before the military property sales facility personnel may complete any
transaction regarding the buying, consigning, or acquiring of new or used
military property.
      (2)   The presentation of any one state or federal government issued
identification containing a photographic representation imprinted on it shall
constitute compliance with the identification requirements of this division
(B).
      (3)   The military property sales facility owner or his or her employee
or agent shall legibly record this identification information next to the
person’s name and residence in the book required to be kept. Both the military
property sales facility owner, his or her employee or agent, and the seller,
consignor, or transferor of the military property shall sign the record entry.
   (C)   The book shall be a permanent record to be kept at all times on the
premises of the place of business of the military property sales facility and
shall be made available, during regular business hours, to any law enforcement
officer who requests to inspect the book. A copy of the records required to be
kept by this section shall be filed within 48 hours of the transaction in the
office of the Sheriff. Mailing the required copy to the Sheriff within 48 hours
shall constitute compliance with this section.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1986) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.09 POSTING LICENSE.
   Any license obtained pursuant to this chapter shall be posted in a prominent
place, easily visible to the public, on the designated premises.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1986) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   As provided in G.S. § 127B-5, any person who shall willfully commit
perjury in any application for a license pursuant to this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   As provided in G.S. § 127B-7, any dealer who violates the provisions
of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be
fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not more than six months, or both.
In addition, any dealer convicted of violating this chapter shall be ineligible
for a dealer’s permit for a period of three years from the date of conviction.
Each violation shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1986)
CHAPTER 114: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
General Provisions
   
114.001   Short title
   
114.002   Purpose and authority
   
114.003   Definitions
Franchising Regulations
   
114.015   Franchise required
   
114.016   Procedure for granting a franchise
   
114.017   Acceptance of franchise; effective date
   
114.018   Provisions governing the term, renewal, renegotiation, and transfer
of a franchise
   
114.019   Franchise area and extension of service
Rates and Charges
   
114.030   Regulation of rates
   
114.031   Payment to the county
   
114.032   Insurance; bonds
System Design Provisions
   
114.045   Emergency override
   
114.046   Standby power
   
114.047   System standards
   
114.048   State of the art
   
114.049   System carriage
Construction Provisions; Use of Streets and Pole Attachments
   
114.060   Construction schedule
   
114.061   Changes required by public improvement
   
114.062   Pole use
   
114.063   Use of existing poles or conduits
   
114.064   Facilities not be hazardous or interfere
   
114.065   Methods of installation
   
114.066   Subscriber’s underground installation option
   
114.067   Prohibition of signal distribution by others
   
114.068   Requests for removal or change
   
114.069   Construction standards; clearance aboveground
   
114.070   Maintenance and alteration of the system after construction
Operations and Maintenance
   
114.085   Consumer complaint response
   
114.086   Interruption of service to subscribers
   
114.087   Service force required
   
114.088   Complaint log
   
114.089   Complaints regarding service deficiencies
   
114.090   Complaint review procedures
   
114.091   Sale and service of receivers prohibited
   
114.092   Use of production equipment
   
114.093   Open books and records
   
114.094   Current reports
   
114.095   Permits and authorizations
   
114.096   Filings and communications with regulatory agencies
   
114.097   Quarterly reports
   
114.098   Annual reports
   
114.099   General reports
Administration and Conditions
   
114.110   Rights reserved to the county
   
114.111   Rights reserved to the franchisee
   
114.112   Miscellaneous provisions
   
114.113   Regulatory entity
   
114.114   Franchisee application
 
   
114.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Harnett County Cable Television
Ordinance” or “this chapter” or “chapter”.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982)
§ 114.002 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   In the public interest and for the promotion of the public health, safety,
welfare, and convenience and pursuant to statutory authority contained in G.S.
§ 153A-137 and other applicable laws, the following rules are adopted, which
rules set forth the conditions, limitations, restrictions, and requirements
under which a person may construct or cause to be constructed, operate, and
maintain a cable television system and engage in the business of providing a
cable television service in the unincorporated areas of the county.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982)
§ 114.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future tense, words in the plural number include the singular number, words in
the singular number include the plural number, and words in the masculine,
feminine, or neuter gender include each of the other genders. The word shall is
always mandatory and not merely directory.
   ACCESS CHANNELS. Those channels which are to be kept available by the
franchisee for partial or total dedication to public access, educational
access, local government access, or leased access.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS or BOARD. The governing body of the County of
Harnett.
   CABLE OFFICE. The business office of the franchisee which shall be
conveniently accessible to the public and located in the franchise area.
   CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM. Any facility that, in whole or in part, receives
directly, or indirectly over the air and amplifies or otherwise modifies the
signals transmitting programs broadcast by one or more television stations,
radio stations, or other electronic signals and distributes such signals by
wire or cable to subscribing members of the public who pay for such service,
but such access term shall not include:
      (1)   Any such facility that serves fewer than 75 subscribers;
      (2)   Any such facility that serves only the residents of one or more
apartment dwellings under common ownership, control, or management, and
commercial establishments located on the premises of such an apartment house;
and
      (3)   Any such facility that serves only the residents of an overnight
residential business establishment (e.g., hotel, motel, and the like) or any
commercial establishments or private organizations or associations that
services only its own employees, members of the general public upon its own
premises, or its own members as the case may be.
   CATV. Cable television.
   COUNTY. The body politic of the County of Harnett as heretofore established
and constituted by legislative enactment of the state.
   COUNTY MANAGER. The Chief Administrative Officer of the county.
   EXTENSION COSTS. One time pro-rata energizing charges and cable costs,
inclusive of direct and indirect overhead so as to reflect the equivalent
actual cost of equipment, wire, and installation labor above and beyond the
cost of a normal drop.
   FCC REGULATIONS. The present and future valid rules and regulations
promulgated by the FCC and applicable to cable television systems in the
county.
   FCC. The federal regulatory agency or agencies having regulatory
jurisdiction over cable television.
   FRANCHISE. Authorization granted pursuant to the terms of this chapter to
construct, operate, and maintain a cable television system within all, or a
specified area, in the unincorporated areas of the county. The FRANCHISE shall
be granted in the form of a franchise ordinance (herein also sometimes referred
to as THE FRANCHISE AGREEMENT) separate and distinct from any license or permit
required for the privilege of transacting and carrying on business within the
county as required by other ordinances and laws of the county. The franchise
ordinance, together with this chapter, shall contain the terms and conditions
upon which any cable television system may be operated in the county.
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. The ordinance adopted by the Board of Commissioners
designating a franchisee for the operation of a cable television system in a
designated basic area within the county, and designating the particular terms
and provisions thereof, as shall supplement this chapter to include by
incorporation the application for franchise made by the franchisee.
   FRANCHISEE. The person, firm, or corporation granted a franchise by the
Board of Commissioners under this chapter and their lawful successors or
transferees.
   GROSS SUBSCRIBER REVENUES. Any and all compensation and other consideration
in any form received by the franchisee arising from the sale of services
offered under the authority of its franchise, provided said term shall not
include any sales, service, rent, occupational, or other excise tax to the
extent said taxes are charged separately in addition to the regular monthly
service and any additional services and are remitted to a taxing authority.
   NORMAL DROP. The conductor which provides subscriber interconnection to an
existing or required cable television system feeder leg with a cable length not
to exceed 200 feet, including the cable length required within the subscriber’s
premises, as measured from the nearest street or road right-of-way line. The
term NORMAL DROP as used in this chapter shall mean a cable television signal
cable and appurtenances of such construction, installations, and system
interconnection as provides signal levels of the quality and strength
consistent with the technical quality requirements of the FCC rules. It may be
overhead or underground. Drops in excess of the normal length shall be in
accordance with the provisions of the line extension policy in this chapter.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, or
organization of any kind.
   POTENTIAL SUBSCRIBERS. Those households, commercial, industrial, or
institutional establishments within a reasonable distance from the trunk cable
where service could be provided to them; said distance shall be determined by
the standards of the CATV industry in effect at the time the determination is
made.
   PROPERTY OF FRANCHISEE. All property owned and installed or used by the
franchisee in the operation of a cable television system or service in the
county under authority of a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter.
   RESIDENTIAL UNITS PER MILE. The total number of residential units not
already passed by energized cable of any franchised CATV system which units are
located on the property directly adjacent to two consecutive miles of street or
other public rights-of-way along established streets or rights-of-way
contiguous with the present system of streets and rights-of-way, the total
residential units thus obtained shall be divided by two to obtain the
residential units per mile. Example: eight apartments in one building count as
eight residential units.
   SHALL or MUST. When SHALL and/or MUST are used it means mandatory, whereas
MAY is permissive.
   STREET or ROAD. The surface of and the space above and below any publicly or
privately owned or maintained property or any public street, right-of-way,
highway, freeway, bridge, lane, path, alley, court, sidewalk, cartway, drive,
existing as such within the franchise area.
   SUBSCRIBER or USER. Any person lawfully receiving, for any purpose any
service of the franchisee’s cable television system.
   TWO-WAY CAPACITY. Such system shall maintain a plant having technical
capacity for audio and video return communications; two-way capability is not
required to be activated until requested by the Board and then only to the
extent required in the franchise granting ordinance.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982)
FRANCHISING REGULATIONS
§ 114.015 FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, operate, or construct a cable
television system in unincorporated areas of the county or to provide cable
television service to any subscriber within the county, except pursuant to a
franchise agreement granting the right to do so between the county and the
franchisee, which agreement shall incorporate by reference and be subject to
this chapter to the same extent as though this chapter in its entirety is a
part of said agreement. Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the
franchisee may designate others under contractual arrangement, to construct,
own, and lease to the franchisee the physical assets of the cable television
system, provided, however, that the franchisee shall be fully and solely
responsible under the terms of this chapter and the franchise agreement.
Neither the franchise, nor any rights of the franchisee arising thereunder
shall be assigned, without the prior written consent of the Board of
Commissioners. Nothing in this section is intended to prevent the Board from
granting a pre-existing permitted use franchise to any CATV system in operation
in the unincorporated areas of the county at the time of passage of this
chapter under such terms and conditions as will enable that CATV to maintain
its then current customers for a sufficient length of time to recoup its
investment.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.016 PROCEDURE FOR GRANTING A FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Applications. Applications for construction, operation, and
maintenance of CATV systems shall be submitted to the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Hearing. The Board shall have a full and complete public hearing
affording all interested parties, including members of the public, the right to
be heard. The Board may, at the conclusion of the hearing or some subsequent
time, grant a franchise to the applicant whose proposed system is in the best
interest of the public and the potential subscribers within the area covered by
the franchise.
   (C)   Authority. The Board may accept applications for an area less than the
whole of the unincorporated area within the county.
   (D)   Contents of application. 
      (1)   The application, filed by a person seeking issuance of a franchise,
shall contain:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant. If the applicant is a
partnership, the name and address of each partner must be submitted. If the
applicant is a corporation, the application shall state the names and addresses
of its directors, officers, parent, and subsidiary companies and of all
shareholders owning as much as 5% of the outstanding stock of any class, and
shall include a certified copy of its articles of incorporation together with
all amendments thereto. The application shall state the names and address of
all persons whose beneficial interest in the applicant amounts to 5% or more,
regardless of how said interest is held;
         (b)   A statement demonstrating the applicant’s experience and
expertise, if any, in establishing a cable television system and in providing a
CATV service, including the names and locations of any other CATV systems
currently or formerly constructed, operated, or maintained by the applicant;
         (c)   If applicant had prepared by a certified public accountant, an
audit for the fiscal year next preceding the application date, a copy of that
audit. In any event an income statement and balance sheet for the fiscal
quarter next preceding the application which may be either audited or
unaudited, which shall show the applicant’s financial status and its financial
ability to complete the construction of the proposed CATV system and to provide
the CATV service. Any additional financial information which applicant feels
would further evidence his or her ability to construct the proposed system and
provide CATV service may also be submitted. Information with respect to
financial projections of the proposed system, including methods of financing,
shall be submitted as part of the application. All financial and ownership
information relating to the applicant submitted in compliance with this chapter
shall be confidential and shall not be regarded as public information to the
extent provided by law;
         (d)   To the extent permitted by law, a statement containing a
description of the CATV system proposed to be constructed, installed,
maintained, and operated by the applicant, the technical specifications of the
materials to be used, the services to be provided to subscribers, the services,
material, and equipment to be provided without cost to local government units,
qualified under the FCC regulations, the facilities, material, and equipment to
be made available for access cablecasting, the manner in which the applicant
proposes to construct, install, maintain, and operate the system, and the
extent and manner in which existing or future poles or other facilities of
other public utilities will be used for such system. The statement required by
this division (D)(4) shall include all information above, relative to the full
term of the franchise and not merely the initial system;
         (e)   A statement setting forth all agreements and understandings,
whether written or oral, or implied, existing between the applicant and any
person or entity with respect to the ownership, control, or transfer of the
proposed franchise or the proposed CATV system and service. If a franchise is
granted to a person who is an agent or representative of another person, and
such relationship is not disclosed in the original application, such franchise
shall be void and of no force and effect;
         (f)   A statement or schedule of proposed rates and charges to
subscribers for installation and service, and a list of those services to be
provided to subscribers; and
         (g)   A map of the area which the applicant will agree to serve within
12 months of the effective date of the franchise and a statement of applicant’s
plans for future expansion of service. The map shall clearly delineate areas
which will not be served, if any.
      (2)   The applicant shall provide to the Board any additional information
which the Board deems necessary. A request by the Board for such additional
information shall be made in writing after the opening of applications and
before the public hearing.
   (E)   Reservation of rights. The county expressly reserves the right or
privilege to grant by franchise to any other person the right to construct,
operate, and maintain a CATV system within the same area during the same period
of time granted to any other franchisee.
   (F)   Findings. If the Board determines that no system proposed by any
applicant is in the best interest of the public, no franchise will be granted.
The franchise, if granted, shall contain recitations that demonstrate that the
Board has examined and approved the franchisee’s legal, financial, and
technical qualifications, as well as the adequacy and feasibility of
franchisee’s construction arrangements.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982)
§ 114.017 ACCEPTANCE OF FRANCHISE; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   Time. Within 60 days after the Board has granted the franchise, the
franchisee shall file with the Clerk to the Board a written acceptance of the
franchise, acknowledged before a notary public. This acceptance shall
acknowledge that the franchisee agrees to be bound by and to comply with the
provisions of this chapter, and the assurances set forth in his or her
application, and shall be of such form and of such content, as shall be
satisfactory to and be approved by the County Attorney.
   (B)   Other requirements. Concurrently with the filing of the written
acceptance, the franchisee shall file with the Clerk to the Board the bond and
proofs of insurance as required by §
114.032(C), and §
114.032(E) or (F) and proof of loan commitments or other proof of ability to
obtain construction funds.
   (C)   Effective date. The effective date of this franchise shall be the date
on which the franchisee files the acceptance, bond, proofs of insurance, and
proof of acquisition of construction funds as required herein, provided,
however, if any of the material required to be filed with the acceptance or the
acceptance itself is defective or fails to meet with approval, the franchise
shall not be effective until such defect is cured or such approval is obtained.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982)
§ 114.018 PROVISIONS GOVERNING THE TERM, RENEWAL, RENEGOTIATION, AND TRANSFER
OF A FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Term. The franchise and rights therein granted shall take effect and
be in force for a period of 15 years from and after the grant and acceptance
date of the franchise, unless such time is extended by the Board of
Commissioners.
   (B)   Termination of franchise. Upon termination of the franchise for
whatever reason, including expiration or revocation, the county shall have the
right to determine whether the franchisee shall be eligible to continue to
operate and maintain the CATV system.
   (C)   Expiration of franchise. 
      (1)   Within three years of the expiration of the term of the franchise
and subject to approval by the Board of Commissioners, the franchisee may
negotiate renewal of its franchise for an additional period not inconsistent
with FCC rules and regulations.
      (2)   The franchisee shall notify the county in writing not less than one
year in advance of the expiration date of its desire to renew or not to renew
the franchise. The county may propose certain franchise modifications to the
franchisee and make any given renewal contingent upon acceptance of such
modifications. Renewal shall be preceded by a public hearing held at least 30
days in advance of decision by the Board of Commissioners. A renewal may be
granted not more than two years prior to the expiration of any existing term.
The Board of Commissioners may determine whether or not the franchisee has
performed satisfactorily its obligations under the franchise by reviewing the
following:
         (a)   Technical developments and performances of the system;
         (b)   Programming;
         (c)   Other services offered;
         (d)   Cost of service;
         (e)   Compliance with any requirement in the chapter or in FCC
regulations;
         (f)   Annual and other reports made to the county or the FCC;
         (g)   Extension of service; and
         (h)   Other matters of concern.
      (3)   In the event the current franchisee is determined by the Board of
Commissioners to have performed unsatisfactorily, new applicants shall be
sought and evaluated by the County Manager and Board of Commissioners and a
franchise award may be made according to application and award procedures set
forth herein.
   (D)   Revocation of franchise. The Board of Commissioners may terminate the
franchise conferred under this chapter at any time prior to a date of
expiration upon a finding that the franchisee has failed to cure one or more of
the following defects:
      (1)   Material breach, whether by act or omission, of any terms or
conditions of this franchise ordinance, or franchise agreement;
      (2)   Material misrepresentation of fact in the application for, or
negotiation of, the franchise;
      (3)   Insolvency of the franchisee, or inability or unwillingness of the
franchisee to pay its just debts when they accrue, or application of the
franchisee for adjudication as a bankrupt;
      (4)   Failure to provide subscribers or users with adequate service in
the best interest of the public convenience and welfare;
      (5)   Failure to have obtained authorization from all required
governmental agencies and acceptable pole attachment agreements within 12
months after acceptance of the franchise provided the period of 12 months may
be extended by the Board of Commissioners if the franchisee is diligently
pursuing such authorization and the delay is not caused by any fault of the
franchisee or results from strikes, natural disaster, or other occurrences over
which the franchisee would have no control; and/or
      (6)   Full service failures.
         (a)   Failure to have full service available as set forth in
franchisee’s application and in §
114.019(B) hereof, provided the period may be extended by the Board of
Commissioners under the same circumstances set forth in division (D)(5) above.
         (b)   The franchisee shall have 60 days to remedy defects following
written notice by the County Manager to the franchisee of such a defect. If any
defect continues beyond the 60 days (or any extension thereof granted by the
Board of Commissioners) without written proof that corrective action has been
taken or is being actively and expeditiously pursued, the Board of
Commissioners shall call a public hearing on the termination of the franchise.
Immediately following the public hearing, the Board of Commissioners may, by
resolution, declare that the franchise be terminated. At least ten days prior
to the Board of Commissioners meeting at which the public hearing will be held,
the County Manager shall cause to be served upon the franchisee a written
notice of the public hearing on the question of termination. The notice shall
state the time and place of the meeting.
         (c)   Should the county revoke the franchise, new applicants shall be
sought and evaluated by the County Manager and Board of Commissioners and a
franchise award may be made according to application and award procedures set
forth herein.
   (E)   Foreclosure. Upon the foreclosure or other judicial sale of all or a
substantial part of the system, or upon the termination of any lease covering
all or a substantial part of the system, the franchisee shall notify the Board
of Commissioners of such fact, and such notification shall be treated as a
notification that a transfer in control of the franchise has taken place, and
the provisions of division (G) below governing the consent of the Board of
Commissioners to such change in control of the franchise shall apply.
   (F)   Receivership. The Board of Commissioners shall have the right to
cancel this franchise 120 days after the appointment of a receiver, or trustee,
to take over and conduct the business of the company, whether in receivership,
reorganization, bankruptcy, or other action or proceeding, unless such
receivership or trusteeship shall have vacated prior to the expiration of said
120 days, or unless:
      (1)   Within 120 days after his or her election or appointment, such
receiver or trustee shall have fully complied with all the provisions of this
chapter and remedied all defaults thereunder; and
      (2)   Such receiver or trustee, within said 120 days, shall have executed
an agreement, duly approved by the court having jurisdiction in the premises,
whereby such receiver or trustee assumes and agrees to be bound by each and
every provision of this chapter and the certification granted to the company.
   (G)   Transfer of control. 
      (1)   No transfer of effective ownership or control of the CATV system
may take place, whether by forced or voluntary sale, lease, mortgage,
assignment, encumbrance, or any other form of disposition, without prior notice
to and approval by the Board of Commissioners. The notice shall include full
identifying particulars of the proposed transaction, and the Board of
Commissioners shall act by resolution.
      (2)   The franchisee shall not issue any additional capital stock and
shall not permit the transfer of more than 10% of its presently outstanding
shares without the prior written consent of Board of Commissioners. No sale,
lease, assignment, or transfer shall be effective until the vendee, leasee,
assignee, or transferee has filed with the county its acceptance of this grant.
      (3)   In the absence of extraordinary circumstances, the Board of
Commissioners will not approve any such transactions before completion of
construction of energized cable passing before each dwelling unit, as specified
in §
114.019(B).
      (4)   Prior approval of the Board of Commissioners shall be required
where ownership or control of more than 10% of the right of control of or
interest in the franchise is acquired by a person or a group of persons acting
in concert, none of whom already own or control 10% or more of such right of
control or interest, singularly or collectively. Provided, however, that such
Board of Commissioners approval shall not be unreasonably withheld after proper
application is made therefor.
      (5)   Transfer of effective ownership of control shall not include:
         (a)   Pledge or hypotecation or mortgage or similar instrument
transferring conditional ownership of all or part of the system’s assets to a
lender, or creditor in the ordinary course of business so long as the lender
does not thereby acquire the right to control the system’s operations; but no
such transfer of conditional title can be made absolute or become effective
without prior approval of the Board of Commissioners; or
         (b)   The disposition of facilities or equipment no longer required in
the conduct of business.
Franchisee may hypotecate its interest under this chapter and the franchise
agreement and in the CATV system to be constructed pursuant thereto for the
purpose of securing a loan, the entire proceeds of which will be utilized in
construction and operation of its CATV system in the franchise area.
      (6)   By its acceptance of the franchise, the franchisee specifically
concedes and agrees that any acquisitions or transfers as set forth in this
section without prior approval of the Board of Commissioners, as may be
required, shall constitute a violation of the franchise agreement and this
chapter by the franchisee.
   (H)   Continuing of service mandatory. The franchisee shall be required to
provide continuous service to all subscribers in return for payment of the
established fee. If the franchise agreement becomes void whatever reason,
including normal expiration, revocation, or foreclosure, the franchisee is
required, at the option of the county as a part of this franchise, to continue
to operate the system for either a period of six months or until an orderly
change of operation is effected whichever is the earlier. In the event the
franchisee fails to operate the system or allows a lapse in service without
prior approval of the Board of Commissioners, the county or its agent may
operate the system until such time that a new operator is selected. If the
county is required to fulfill this obligation for the franchisee, the
franchisee shall reimburse the county for any costs or damages that are the
result of the franchisee’s failure to perform.
   (I)   Periodic review. 
      (1)   Because of the regulatory, technical, financial, marketing, and
legal uncertainties associated with cable communications, the franchisee shall
agree to the following review provisions in order to provide for a maximum
degree of flexibility in this franchise and to help achieve a continued advance
and modern system for the county.
         (a)   The county and the franchisee shall hold scheduled review
sessions within 30 days of the fifth and tenth anniversary dates of the
effective date of the franchise.
         (b)   Special review sessions may be held in the county courthouse at
any time during the term of the franchise upon reasonable notice by either
party to the other. A special review session shall be held in the event any
clause or section of this chapter is voided, nullified, deleted, or modified by
the authority of any regulatory agency including the FCC, and the franchisee
will comply with the FCC rules within one year from adoption of the new rule.
      (2)   The following topics shall be discussed at every scheduled review
session: service; rate structures; free or discounted services; application of
new technologies; state of the art; system performances; services provided;
programming offered; customer complaints; privacy in human rights; amendments
to this chapter; undergrounding provisions; judicial and FCC rulings; and
extension of service. In addition, other topics may be discussed as determined
by the county.
      (3)   At either a scheduled or special review session, a public hearing
may be called if, and as determined by, the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.019 FRANCHISE AREA AND EXTENSION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Franchise territory. The franchise is for all of the county outside of
the corporate limits of the towns.
   (B)   Service. 
      (1)   Within the second year after the effective date of the franchise
the franchisee agrees to make available basic CATV service to all residents of
the county within the basic service area as set forth in franchisee’s
application. Thereafter, the franchisee shall provide service in all areas of
the county contiguous to the franchisee’s then existing cables where the
average density of residential units is equal to or greater than 30 residential
units per cable mile, provided that the percentage of the franchise area to be
served where there are 30 residential units per cable mile shall not be less
than:
         (a)   Fifty percent at the end of two years;
         (b)   Seventy percent at the end of three years;
         (c)   Eighty percent at the end of four years; and
         (d)   One-hundred percent at the end of five years.
      (2)   The franchisee shall extend cable television service to those areas
with an average density of at least 30 occupied residential units per mile of
cable. In addition, the franchisee shall extend cable television service to
areas of lesser density, upon written request of any five or more customers
living within one-half mile from each other as follows: the franchisee shall
determine the gross revenue that it would receive should franchisee aerially
construct its cable system and extend cable television service to such
customers assuming the requesting individual subscribed to the service. The
franchisee shall also determine the costs of the requested construction. The
franchisee shall also determine what would be its gross revenue were there 30
occupied dwellings per mile of cable and assuming that potential subscribers
became franchisee’s customers at a rate equal to its system wide penetration
rate within the county. The franchisee shall determine its gross annual yield
on investment under both the former and the latter situations. The franchisee
shall pay as its portion of the costs of extension an amount which would give
it the same gross annual yield on investment in the former situation as it
would have had in the latter situation. The balance the costs of construction
shall be advanced, pro rata, prior to construction commencing, by the
requesting customers. In addition, the requesting parties shall agree to pay
for the service for a period of two years. For two years subsequent to
completion of extension (or until there are 30 occupied dwellings per mile of
cable along such extension), said pro rata shares shall be recalculated as
additional customers along said extension subscribe to the franchisee’s system.
Said additional customers shall pay their pro rata share of the subscriber
service extension costs, and customers originally having made such payments
shall receive a refund equal to the excess of their original pro rata
subscriber extension costs payment over and recalculated pro rata share
together with any prior refund. At the end of said two-year period, payments
for the subscriber’s service extension costs remaining in the franchisee’s
possession should be credited to its capital plant account.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 114.030 REGULATION OF RATES.
   (A)   Franchise fee. See §
114.031.
   (B)   Limitations on rates. The charges made to subscribers for services of
the franchisee hereunder shall be fair and reasonable. The franchisee shall
receive no consideration whatsoever from its subscribers other than in
accordance with this section, without approval of the Board of Commissioners.
The franchisee shall not charge rates for basic services and for installations
and disconnections in excess of the rate schedule appearing in the franchisee’s
application unless approved in accordance with division (C) below.
   (C)   Adjustment to rates. 
      (1)   Initial rates and charges for basic sources and for installation
and disconnect shall be fixed in the franchise application. Thereafter, the
county or the franchisee may request rate adjustments at any time. After a
public hearing affording due notice to the franchisee and other interested
persons, the Board of Commissioners may adjust rates. (Public hearing
advertisement to be once per week in a newspaper of general circulation in the
county for two weeks preceding hearing.) The criterion to determine whether
rates adjustments shall be permitted are the same as those currently set forth
in G.S. Chapter 162 for rate adjustment hearings related to rate adjustments
for public utilities other than motor carriers and certain water and sewer
utilities. The franchisee may appeal the decision of the Board to the courts as
permitted by law.
      (2)   However, the franchisee may increase or decrease its rates at any
time, without prior Board approval, provided that no increase has been made in
the preceding six months and provided that the annualized rate of increase
within a given 12-month period shall not exceed the average annual rate of
increase over the preceding 12 months in the Consumer Price Index for all Urban
Consumers U.S. City Average Other Utilities and Public Services (1967-100) as
published by the United States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics.
(In the event that at any time the United States Department of Labor begins
publishing a Consumer Price Index on the annual cost adjustments in cable
television costs in particular then that index and its base year shall be used
in lieu of the index for other utilities and public services.) The franchisee
shall notify the county in writing at least 90 days in advance of the effective
date of any proposed rate increase within the limits set forth above. The
county may then challenge the increase and schedule meetings, hearings, request
additional information, or take whatever action it deems appropriate. If no
such action is taken within 60 days of receipt of original written notice by
the county, then the increase will automatically take effect.
      (3)   Except as set forth in division (C)(2) above rates shall not be
changed without Board approval, except that nothing in this provision shall
prohibit the reduction or waiving of charges in conjunction with promotional
campaign for the purpose of attracting subscribers.
   (D)   Refunds to subscribers and users. 
      (1)   If any subscriber terminates any monthly service during the first
six months of said service because of failure of a franchisee to render the
service offered, the franchisee shall refund to such subscriber an amount equal
to all charges paid by the subscriber during the period in which no service was
received.
      (2)   If any subscriber terminates for any reason any monthly service
prior to the end of a prepaid period, a pro rata portion of any prepaid
subscriber service fee shall be refunded to the subscriber by the franchisee
using number of months as the basis.
   (E)   Advance charges and deposits.
      (1)   A franchisee may require subscribers to pay the installation charge
in advance and to pay for each month of basic service in advance at the
beginning of each month. Additionally, franchisee may charge deposit fees for
converters as set forth in their application but not to exceed franchisee’s
cost.
      (2)   No other advance payment or deposit of any kind shall be required
by a franchisee for basic subscriber service. Other than for a converter,
nothing in this provision shall be construed to prohibit charges for initial
installation, relocation, or reconnection. The franchisee may also sell to
consumers converters on terms specified in the application.
   (F)   Installation and reconnection. Except as otherwise provided elsewhere
in this chapter, a franchisee may make a charge to subscribers for the
installation of service outlets and for the reconnection of service outlets.
The rates for such connection or reconnection shall be as authorized in the
rate schedule detailed in division (B) above.
   (G)   Other governmental regulation of rates. If in the future, the state or
the United States Government or any regulatory agency thereof regulates the
rates of the franchisee for the service provided for in the franchise, this
section shall be of no effect during such regulation to the extent of any
conflict therewith.
   (H)   Public service installation. The franchisee shall without charge for
installation, maintenance, or service make single installations of its standard
CATV service facilities to those public buildings operated by the county and
the county’s Board of Education when the building is located on the
franchisee’s system when the system is constructed consistent with the
requirements of this chapter. Such installations shall be made at such
reasonable locations as shall be requested by the County Manager. Any charge
for relocation of such installation shall, however, be charged at actual cost.
Additional installations at the same location may be made at actual cost. No
monthly service charges shall be made for distribution of the franchisee’s
basic service, including access channels, within such publicly owned buildings.
   (I)   Charges for public access. Charges to users of the franchisee’s
production facilities for public access programming shall not exceed actual
costs incurred. Such charges shall be publicly posted and made available at no
cost to anyone upon request. Charges shall be clearly and completely stated in
the operating rules for public access programming. Such charges may be amended
only upon approval by the Board of Commissioners. The franchisee shall furnish
standard playback facilities and labor at actual cost incurred for the public
access channel.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.031 PAYMENT TO THE COUNTY.
   As compensation for the authorization granted herein and in consideration
for permission to use the easements which the county controls for the
construction, operation, and maintenance of a CATV system within the county,
the franchisee shall pay to the county quarterly on or before the first day of
July, October, January, and April for the preceding quarter an amount equal to
3% of the gross revenues exclusive of reconnect and relocation service fees and
the portion of any pay television fees paid over to distributors of pay
television programing. This payment shall be in addition to any other fees or
payments made to the county by the franchisee, such as pole rental, business
licenses, and other fees not based on gross revenues. Payment shall be
accompanied by a certified annual report showing the basis for the computation
and such other relevant facts as may be required by the county. No acceptance
of any payment shall be construed as an accord that the amount paid is, in
fact, the correct amount, nor shall such acceptance of payment be construed as
a release of any claim the county may have for further or additional sums
payable under the provisions of this chapter. All amounts paid shall be subject
to recomputation by the county within 60 days of the receipt of the franchise
annual report. This time limitation shall not apply should the franchisee
provide false or erroneous information. In the event that recomputation results
in additional revenue to be paid to the county, such amount shall be subject to
an interest charge at the highest rate permitted by law. Nothing in this
provision shall limit franchisee’s liability to pay other local taxes and
charges.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.032 INSURANCE; BONDS.
   (A)   Insurance. 
      (1)   The franchisee shall be required to maintain insurance in such
forms and in such companies as shall be approved by the county with the county
named as the coinsured, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld, to
protect the county and franchisee from and against any and all claims, injury,
or damage to persons or property, both real and personal, caused by the
construction, erection, operation, or maintenance of any aspect of the system.
The amount of such insurance shall not be less than the following:
         (a)   General liability insurance:
            1.   Bodily injury per person: $500,000;
            2.   Bodily injury per occurrence: $1,000,000; and
            3.   Property damage per occurrence: $500,000.
         (b)   Automobile insurance:
            1.   Bodily injury per person: $100,000;
            2.   Bodily injury per occurrence: $300,000; and
            3.   Property damage per occurrence: $300,000.
      (2)   The county may require the foregoing insurance coverage to be
changed from time to time during the term of the franchise.
      (3)   Worker’s compensation insurance shall also be provided as required
by the laws of the state, as amended.
      (4)   All said insurance coverage shall provide a 30-day notice to the
County Manager in the event of material alteration or cancellation of any
coverage afforded in said policies prior to the date said material alteration
or cancellation shall become effective.
      (5)   A certificate of coverage for all policies required hereunder shall
be furnished to and filed with the County Manager, prior to the commencement of
operations or expiration of prior policies, as the case may be.
   (B)   Faithful performance bond. The franchisee shall, concurrently with its
acceptance of this franchise, file with the County Manager and at all times
thereafter maintain in full force and effect for the term of this franchise or
any renewal thereof, at franchisee’s sole expense, a corporate surety bond with
a responsible company licensed to do business in the state and approved by the
county, in the amount of 5% of the anticipated cost of construction of the
proposed CATV system for the unincorporated areas of the county, renewable
annually, and conditioned upon the faithful performance of the franchisee, and
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and upon the further
condition that in the event the franchisee shall fail to comply with any one or
more of the provisions of the franchise, there shall be recoverable jointly and
severally from the principal and surety of such bond any damages or loss
suffered by the county as a result thereof, including the full amount of any
compensation, indemnification, or cost of removal or abandonment or any
property of the franchisee as prescribed hereby, plus a reasonable allowance
for attorneys’ fees and costs, up to the full amount of the bond, said
condition to be a continuing obligation for the duration of the franchise and
any renewal thereof and thereafter until the franchisee has liquidated all of
its obligations with the county that may have arisen from the acceptance of
this franchise or renewal by the franchisee or from its exercise of any
privileges or rights herein granted. The bond shall provide that at least 30
days’ prior written notice of intention not to renew, cancellation, or material
change be given to the county by filing same with the County Manager. Said
required performance bond shall be reduced to $2,000 once the franchisee has
connected sufficient energized cable to serve the areas required to be served
by §
114.019(B) hereof. Failure to keep a performance bond in force at all times as
herein provided shall constitute an event of default.
   (C)   Deposit in lieu of bond. In lieu of the performance bond by a surety
company as herein provided the franchisee may file and deposit with the county
a performance bond without a corporate surety but secured by a certificate of
deposit in some bank or savings and loan association in the state, in the sum
of the performance bond required by §
114.032(B) hereof conditioned in the same manner as the performance bond of a
surety company hereinbefore described. The income from such deposit shall be
payable to the franchisee. As an alternative, the franchisee may provide such
other security as may be approved by the Board of Commissioners, but ,absent
such approval, it shall provide a bond or deposit in lieu thereof as above
provided.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
SYSTEM DESIGN PROVISIONS
§ 114.045 EMERGENCY OVERRIDE.
   The cable system shall include an emergency alert capability which will
permit the Chairperson of the Board of Commissioners or his or her designee to
override, by remote control, the video and/or audio of all channels
simultaneously programming in the case of public emergencies. The franchisee
shall designate a channel which will be used for emergency broadcasts. If the
franchisee is granted a franchise based upon an unified system with one or more
municipalities within the county, only one emergency override channel will have
to be kept available for such an unified system.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.046 STANDBY POWER.
   The franchisee shall maintain equipment capable of providing standby
powering for headend. The equipment shall be constructed so as to notify
automatically the cable office when it is in operation and to revert
automatically to the standby mode when the AC power returns.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.047 SYSTEM STANDARDS.
   The franchisee shall install and maintain a cable system which shall be in
accordance with the highest and best accepted standards of the industry to the
end that subscribers shall receive the best possible service. In addition, the
franchisee shall comply with all requirements of all duly constituted
regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over cable television or the operator
of the cable system.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.048 STATE OF THE ART.
   The franchisee shall upgrade its facilities, equipment, and service so that
its system is as advanced as the current state of production technology will
allow. The franchisee shall install additional channel capacity as required to
keep channel capacity in excess of demand therefor by users. At all times, the
cable system shall be no less advanced than any other system of comparable size
and age excepting only systems which are experimental, pilot, or demonstration.
The Board of Commissioners shall order the franchisee to comply with this
section in case of specific violations, which it may investigate upon complaint
or on its own motion.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.049 SYSTEM CARRIAGE.
   At all times the signal carriage and channel utilization shall conform to
the regulations of the FCC, state, and other regulatory agencies which are not
in conflict therewith. The operator shall provide at least one access channel
for each of the following activities: public access; educational access; and
government access as each of these channels is defined under FCC regulations.
Such channels shall not be required to remain idle if not in use by the public
but rather can be used by the franchisee to produce revenue. Except in cases of
emergency, governmental units must give ten days notice of intent to use.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982)  Penalty, see §
114.999
CONSTRUCTION PROVISIONS; USE OF STREETS AND POLE ATTACHMENTS
§ 114.060 CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE.
   The franchisee shall be diligent in commencing construction after the
effective date of the franchise.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.061 CHANGES REQUIRED BY PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT.
   A franchisee shall, at its expense, protect, support, temporarily
disconnect, relocate in the same street or other public place to remove from
the road or other public place, any property of the franchisee when required by
the county or state by reason of traffic conditions, public safety, road
vacation, road construction, change, or establishment of road grade,
installation of sewers, drains and water pipes, power lines, or any other type
of structure or improvement by public agencies.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.062 POLE USE.
   The franchisee is obligated to obtain pole space and other facilities from
the towns of Lillington, Angier, Erwin, Coats, any utility companies, and other
lawful users at its own expenses and costs and copies of all pole use
agreements in whatever form as to be filed with the County Manager. In the
event of termination for failure to construct the CATV system or expiration of
the franchise, the franchisee is to relinquish all rights to pole use
immediately and enter into whatever agreements and execute whatever documents
may be necessary to accomplish such relinquishment. In the event of termination
of the franchise once the system is operating, the franchisee is to relinquish
all rights to pole use after a reasonable time has elapsed for the franchisee
to attempt to sell the system; however, during such time the franchisee shall
diligently be attempting to find a buyer. Such reasonable time, unless
otherwise agreed to by the county, shall be nine months. This provision may be
enforced by appropriate equitable remedy from a court of competent jurisdiction
as set forth in G.S. § 153A-123. Such equitable relief includes, but is not
limited to, injunctions and orders of abatement and upon refusal to comply, the
franchisee may be cited for contempt.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.063 USE OF EXISTING POLES OR CONDUITS.
   Nothing in this chapter, or any franchise granted hereunder, shall authorize
the franchisee to erect and maintain in the county new poles where existing
poles are servicing the area. The franchisee shall obtain permission from the
county before erecting any new poles or underground conduit where none exists
at the time the franchisee seeks to install its network.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.064 FACILITIES NOT BE HAZARDOUS OR INTERFERE.
   All wires, conduits, cable, and other property and facilities of the
franchisee shall be so located, constructed, installed, and maintained as not
to endanger or unnecessarily interfere with the usual and customary trade,
traffic, and travel upon the roads and public places of the county. The
franchisee shall keep and maintain all of its property in good condition,
order, and repair. The franchisee shall keep accurate maps and records of all
its facilities and furnish copies of such maps and records as requested by the
county in the section dealing with reports. A franchisee shall not place poles
or other equipment where they will interfere with the rights or reasonable
convenience of adjoining property owners, or with any gas, electric, or
telephone fixtures, or with any water hydrants or mains.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.065 METHODS OF INSTALLATION.
   All wires, cables, amplifiers, and other property shall be constructed and
installed in an orderly and workmanlike manner consistent with all applicable
requirements of the National Electric Code, state and local electric codes, and
all pole attachment agreements. All cables and wires shall be installed
parallel with existing telephone and electric wires whenever possible. Multiple
cable configurations shall be arranged in parallel and bundled, with due
respect for engineering and safety considerations. All installations shall be
underground in these areas of the county where electric service is underground
at the time of installation. In areas where electric utility facilities are
aboveground at the time of installation, the franchisee may install its service
aboveground with the understanding that at such time as those facilities are
required to be placed underground by the county, the franchisee shall likewise
place its services underground without additional cost to the subscribers or
the county. It shall be the policy of the county that underground installation,
even when not required, is preferable to the placement of additional poles.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.066 SUBSCRIBER’S UNDERGROUND INSTALLATION OPTION.
   Should any subscriber wish to have underground service in any area normally
provided service via overhead (aerial) construction, the subscriber requesting
such underground service shall pay all costs attendant to underground
construction plus 10% less the normal costs of such equivalent overhead
installation, if such overhead service does not exist to the subscribers’
residence.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982)
§ 114.067 PROHIBITION OF SIGNAL DISTRIBUTION BY OTHERS.
   No equipment, cable, or other apparatus shall be connected between the
franchisee’s CATV system and the subscriber’s receiver except as furnished and
installed by the franchisee.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982)
§ 114.068 REQUESTS FOR REMOVAL OR CHANGE.
   The franchisee shall, on the request of any person holding a building moving
permit, temporarily raise or lower its wires to permit the moving of said
building. The expense of such temporary removal, raising or lowering of wires
shall be paid by the person requesting the same, and the franchisee shall have
the authority to require such payment in advance. The franchisee shall be given
not less than five days’ advance notice of any move contemplated to arrange for
temporary wire changes.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.069 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS; CLEARANCE ABOVEGROUND.
   The franchisee’s distribution system in the public roads shall comply with
all applicable laws, regulations, and ordinances, and all its wires and cables
suspended from poles in the roads shall comply with the minimum clearances
aboveground required for telephone lines, cables, wires, and conduits.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.070 MAINTENANCE AND ALTERATION OF THE SYSTEM AFTER CONSTRUCTION.
   The Board of Commissioners may require any part or all of the system to be
improved or upgraded (including, without limitation, the increasing of channel
capacity, the furnishing of improved converters, and the institution of two-way
transmissions), if a reasonable need is found therefor after a public hearing
has been called for that purpose, and may order such improvement or upgrading
of the system, to be affected by the franchisee within a reasonable time
thereafter, provided that no such change shall compromise the franchisee’s
ability to perform satisfactorily its obligations or rights under this chapter
or the franchise agreement.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982)
OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE
§ 114.085 CONSUMER COMPLAINT RESPONSE.
   The franchisee shall maintain an office within the county that is open
during all business hours, has a publicly listed telephone number, and is so
operated that complaints and requests for repairs or adjustments may be
received on a 24-hour basis. The franchisee shall have a resident manager and
engineer within the county and shall have office, marketing, and technical
staffs professionally trained in the cable communications industry.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.086 INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE TO SUBSCRIBERS.
   Whenever it is necessary to interrupt service to subscribers for the purpose
of maintenance, alteration, or repair, the franchisee shall make every effort
to do so at a time that will cause the least amount of subscriber inconvenience
and, unless the interruption is unforseen and immediately necessary, the
franchisee shall give reasonable advance notice thereof to the affected
subscribers.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.087 SERVICE FORCE REQUIRED.
   The franchisee shall provide a service force seven days a week for all
complaints and requests for adjustments. Such force shall be capable of
responding to subscriber complaints within 24 hours of receipt of the
complaint. Total loss of service attributable to the cable system shall be
cleared within 24 hours, except to the extent that restoration of service is
prevented by strikes, fires, injunction, or other cause beyond the franchisee’s
control.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.088 COMPLAINT LOG.
   The franchisee shall keep an accurate log listing chronologically all
complaints and trouble calls received from its subscribers. This log shall
include appropriate identification of the subscriber and service affected, the
time, date, and nature of the report, the action taken to clear the trouble or
satisfy the complaint, and the date and time of final disposition. This log
shall be kept on file for five years and shall be available for inspection by
the County Manager upon request at any time within this period. The franchisee
shall submit to the county each month a summary of the number and types of
complaints received.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.089 COMPLAINTS REGARDING SERVICE DEFICIENCIES.
   For recurrent complaints regarding service deficiencies other than total or
partial loss of service, such as ghosting, weak audio signal, distortion, and
the like, the County Manager may require the franchisee to investigate and
report to him or her the causes and cures thereof, and the County Manager may
also conduct his of her own investigation. Thereafter, the County Manager may
order specified remedial action to be taken within reasonably feasible time
limits. If such action is not taken, or is ineffective, or if within 30 days
the franchisee files with the Board of Commissioners a notice of objection to
the order, the Board of Commissioners may conduct a hearing and may, if the
evidence warrants a finding of fault on the part of the franchisee, take
appropriate action pursuant to the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.090 COMPLAINT REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   A franchisee shall ensure that all subscribers, programmers, and
members of the general public have recourse to a satisfactory hearing of any
complaint.
   (B)   The county shall work closely with a franchisee and members of the
public to establish procedures for handling and settling complaints.
   (C)   A franchisee shall present to the Board of Commissioners for its
approval, no later than six months after the acceptance of the franchise, a set
of rules, regulations, and procedures reasonably designed for the prompt
handling and settling of complaints.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.091 SALE AND SERVICE OF RECEIVERS PROHIBITED.
   The franchisee shall not engage in the sale, service, repair, rental, or
leasing of television receivers, radio receivers, parts of accessories, and
shall not require or attempt to influence its subscribers to deal with any
particular person in regard thereto. Further, the franchisee shall not require
the removal nor offer to remove any existing antenna as a condition of
providing cable service.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.092 USE OF PRODUCTION EQUIPMENT.
   A user of cablecast facilities may not be required to use the franchisee’s
production equipment but must be allowed to use any other production equipment
that is compatible with the franchisee’s facilities. The franchisee is
encouraged to use standard quality equipment.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982)
§ 114.093 OPEN BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   The franchisee shall keep complete and accurate books of accounts and
records of its business under and in connection with its franchise. All such
books and records shall be maintained at the franchisee’s business office
within the county. The county shall have access to all such books and records
at any time during reasonable business hours, and may examine officers and
employees informally or under oath in respect thereto. Access shall also be
given to the county, on request, to all supplementary or underlying financial
and engineering records and reports.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.094 CURRENT REPORTS.
   The following reports must be filed with the County Manager when the
specified event occurs:
   (A)   Any instrument of change in or transfer of an interest in the
franchisee or its assets or franchise;
   (B)   Any charge in or addition to the directors or officers of the
franchisee;
   (C)   Any contract or transaction with an affiliated company, respecting the
cable system, together with full particulars and a copy of any written
agreement or a written summary of any verbal agreement; and
   (D)   Any changes in the franchisee’s rules and regulations governing the
conduct of its business.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.095 PERMITS AND AUTHORIZATIONS.
   The franchisee shall diligently apply for all necessary permits, agreements,
authorizations, and contracts required in the conduct of its business and shall
diligently pursue the acquisition thereof, including necessary pole attachment
contracts and necessary authorizations from the Federal Aviation
Administration to construct such receiving antenna towers as may be required
and any necessary authorization or waivers from the FCC, and when any such
permit is obtained, a copy thereof shall be promptly filed by the franchisee
with the County Manager.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.096 FILINGS AND COMMUNICATIONS WITH REGULATORY AGENCIES.
   Copies of all communications, including petitions, applications, pleadings,
and reports, as well as official correspondence sent to or received from the
Federal Communications Commission, Securities and Exchange Commission, or any
other federal or state regulatory commission or agency having jurisdiction in
respect to any matters affecting CATV operations authorized pursuant to this
franchise, shall also be submitted simultaneously to the County Manager.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.097 QUARTERLY REPORTS.
   The franchisee shall file with the County Manager on a quarterly basis
construction reports until the system is completed.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.098 ANNUAL REPORTS.
   If written request is made by the County Manager, the following reports
shall be filed by the franchisee with the County Manager annually, no later
than February 1, except where otherwise provided:
   (A)   A summary of complaints received during the preceding calendar year
showing nature of the complaint, area of the county, disposition, and
complaints subsequent to disposition;
   (B)   A total facilities report together with a current system map showing
the location and total miles of plant and equipment installed and/or operating
at the close of the preceding calendar year;
   (C)   A map of system;
   (D)   One copy of each type of agreement currently offered to subscribers
and to users;
   (E)   (1)   A complete set of current rules and regulations of the operator
incorporating the latest amendments filed with the county; and
      (2)   In addition, the franchisee shall file a complete financial audit
statement including a statement of income to be certified by a public
accountant to be submitted no later than 90 days after the end of the preceding
fiscal year of the franchisee and such reports on other topics as the Board of
Commissioners may direct.
   (F)   A complete financial audit statement including a statement of income
to be certified by a public accountant to be submitted no later than 90 days
after the end of the preceding fiscal year of the franchisee; and
   (G)   Reports on other topics as the Board of Commissioners may direct.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.099 GENERAL REPORTS.
   A franchisee shall prepare and furnish to the county, at the times and in
the form prescribed by the County Manager or Board of Commissioners, such
reports with respect to its operation, affairs, transactions, or property as
may be reasonably necessary or appropriate to the performance of any of the
functions of the county in connection with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982)
ADMINISTRATION AND CONDITIONS
§ 114.110 RIGHTS RESERVED TO THE COUNTY.
   (A)   Right to inspect records. The county shall have the right to inspect
all books and records and examine officers and employees as specified in §§
114.085 through 114.099.
   (B)   Right to inspect construction. The county reserves the right, but
shall not have the duty to inspect plans and construction of any facility to be
used in connection with the cable system irrespective of its location.
   (C)   Right of intervention. The franchisee shall not oppose intervention by
the county in any suit or proceeding to which the franchisee is a party.
   (D)   Right to require removal of property. The county reserves the right
not inconsistent with any other provision of this chapter to require the
franchisee to remove any of its property from publicly owned property at the
franchisee’s own expense.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982)
§ 114.111 RIGHTS RESERVED TO THE FRANCHISEE.
   (A)   Franchisee’s right to appeal. The franchisee shall have the right to
appeal any provision, requirement, or ruling of the County Manager to the Board
of Commissioners and to the courts as permitted by state law.
   (B)   Sale of subscriber lists prohibited. The franchisee shall be
prohibited from using or allowing the use of subscriber lists for any purpose
unconnected with the provision of service over the system.
   (C)   Monitoring. No monitoring of any terminal connected to the system
shall take place without specific written authorization by the riser of the
terminal in question on each occasion, provided, however, the franchisee may
provide for systemwide, nonindividually addressed sweeps, or the franchisee’s
acquisition of information for purposes of verifying system integrity,
controlling return path transmissions, billing for pay services.
   (D)   Cable tapping. It shall be unlawful to tape or monitor a system line
without authorization from the parties whose communication might be overheard.
Provided, however, the franchisee may provide for systemwide, non-individually
addressed sweeps, or the franchisee’s acquisition of information for purposes
of verifying system integrity, controlling return path transmissions, or
billing for pay services.
   (E)   Discriminatory or preferential practices prohibited. The franchisee
shall not, in its rates or charges, or in making available the services or
facilities of its system, or in its rules or regulations, or in any other
respect, make or grant preferences or advantages to any subscriber or potential
subscriber to the system, or to any user or potential user of the system, and
shall not subject any such persons to any prejudice or disadvantage. This
provision shall not be deemed to prohibit promotional campaigns to stimulate
subscriptions to the system or other legitimate uses thereof; nor shall it be
deemed to prohibit the establishment of a graduated scale of charges, and
classified rate schedules to which any customer coming within such
classification shall be entitled.
   (F)   Open access.
      (1)   The entire system of the franchisee shall be operated in a manner
consistent with the principle of fairness and equal accessibility of its
facilities, equipment, channels, studios, and other services to all citizens,
businesses, public agencies, or other entities having a legitimate use for the
system and no one shall be arbitrarily excluded from its use.
      (2)   Allocation of use of said facilities shall be made according to the
rules or decisions of regulatory agencies affecting the same, and where such
rules or decisions are not effective to resolve a dispute between conflicting
users or potential users, the matter shall be submitted for resolution to the
County Manager, subject to appeal to the Board of Commissioners.
   (G)   Equal opportunity employment and affirmative action. 
      (1)   In the carrying out of the construction, maintenance, and operation
of the CATV system, the franchisee shall not discriminate against any employee
or applicant for employment because of race, creed, color, marital status, age,
sex, or national origin.
      (2)   The franchisee shall post in conspicuous places, available to
employees and applicants for employment, notices setting forth the provisions
of this non-discrimination clause.
      (3)   The franchisee shall, in all solicitations or advertisements for
employees placed by or on behalf of the franchisee, state that all qualified
applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race,
creed, color, sex, marital status, age, or national origin.
   (H)   Individual right of appeal. Any affected individual, partnership, or
corporation shall have the right to appeal any provision, requirement, or
ruling of the County Manager to the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.112 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with laws. The franchisee agrees to comply fully with all
local ordinances, state and federal laws, and with all rules issued by all
regulatory agencies now or hereafter in existence.
   (B)   Severability. If any section, sentence, clause, or phase of the
chapter is held invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or
unconstitutionality shall not affect, the validity of the remainder of this
chapter, and any portions in conflict are hereby repealed. Provided, however,
that in the event that the FCC declares any section invalid, then such section
or sections will be renegotiated by the county and the franchisee.
   (C)   Captions. The captions to sections are inserted solely for information
and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of the chapter.
   (D)   No recourse against the county. The franchisee shall have no recourse
whatsoever against the county or its officers, boards, commissions, agents, or
employees for any loss, cost, expense, or damage arising out of any provision
or requirement of this franchise or because of its enforcement.
   (E)   Non-enforcement. The franchisee shall not be relieved of its
obligation to comply promptly with any of the provisions of the franchise by
any failure of the county to enforce prompt compliance.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.113 REGULATORY ENTITY.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners reserves the option to designate a
regulatory commission to promote and develop access to the CATV system.
   (B)   Membership, term, and functions of that commission shall be
established by resolution when the Board of Commissioners chooses to exercise
the option.
   (C)   In the absence of a regulatory commission, the Board of Commissioners
requires of the County Manager performance of the following functions:
      (1)   Advise the Board of Commissioners on application for franchises,
unless the Board of Commissioners shall otherwise provide for the handling of
this function;
      (2)   Advise the Board of Commissioners on matters which might constitute
grounds for revocation of the franchise in accordance with this chapter;
      (3)   Resolve disagreements among franchisees, subscribers, and public
and private users of the system; such decisions of the County Manager shall be
appealable to the Board of Commissioners;
      (4)   Advise the Board of Commissioners on the regulation of rates in
accordance with this chapter. The said advisory function shall be in the form
of a written report to the Board of Commissioners, which shall include
recommendations to the Board of Commissioners and the facts upon which the said
recommendations are based;
      (5)   Coordinate franchisee and county activities for the best use of
public facilities and channels of the system;
      (6)   Advise the Board of Commissioners regarding general policy relating
to the services provided subscribers and the operation and use of public
channels, with a view to maximizing the diversity of programs and services to
subscribers. The use of public channels shall be allocated on a first come,
first served basis, subject to limitations on monopolization of system time or
prime time;
      (7)   Required an audit of all franchisee records required by this
chapter and, in his or her discretion, require the preparation and filing of
information additional to that required herein;
      (8)   Make an annual report to the Board of Commissioners, including: an
account of franchise fees received and distributed; the total number of hours
of utilization of public channels, and hourly subtotals for various programming
categories; and a review of any plans submitted during the year by franchisee
(s) for development of new services; and
      (9)   Conduct evaluations of the system at least every five years with
the franchisee, and pursuant thereto, make recommendations to the Board of
Commissioners for amendments to this chapter of the franchise agreement.
   (D)   The county reserves the right to amend this chapter from time to time
as it shall deem to be in the public interest.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.114 FRANCHISEE APPLICATION.
   The Board of Commissioners may, by advertisement or any other means, solicit
and call for applications for CATV system franchises, and may determine and fix
any date upon or after which the same shall be received by the county, or the
date before which the same must be received, or the date after which the same
shall not be received, and may make any other determinations and specify any
other times, terms, conditions, or limitations respecting the soliciting,
calling for, making, and receiving of such applications.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982)
§ 114.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Remedies for breach and contravention of franchise.
      (1)   A breach by the franchisee of the franchise agreement, in addition
to constituting a breach of contract, shall constitute a violation of this
chapter. The cost of any litigation incurred by the county to enforce this
chapter or the franchise granted pursuant hereto, or the franchise agreement or
in relation thereto, or in relation to the cancellation or termination of a
franchise, shall be reimbursed to the county by the franchisee. Such costs
shall include filing fees, costs of depositions, discovery, and expert
witnesses, all other expenses of suit, and a reasonable attorney’s fee.
      (2)   Violation of material provisions of this chapter shall subject the
franchisee to the following penalties:
         (a)   Failure of the franchisee to meet performance standards, as
determined by the County Manager, to which it has agreed, may result in a
rebate of rates or charges to subscribers affected, provided that the County
Manager shall provide ten days written notice of the failure to the franchisee.
Any rebate may be charged to the performance bond;
         (b)   For failure to provide data and reports as requested by the
County Manager or the Board of Commissioners and as required by this chapter,
the penalty shall be $50 per day for each day not delivered. This penalty may
be chargeable to the performance bond;
         (c)   For failure to complete construction and installation of the
cable system, unless the Board of Commissioners approves the delay because of
reasons beyond the control of the franchisee, the franchise term may be reduced
one year for each three-months’ delay. The County Manager shall notify the
franchisee during the first month of the three-month period that the system has
failed to meet performance standards;
         (d)   For any other material violation of the chapter in such amounts
per day as the Board may reasonably determine; and
         (e)   The franchisee may appeal any penalty which it considers
unreasonable to the Board of Commissioners and then into the state judicial
system as permitted by state law.
   (B)   Liability and indemnification of the county. The franchisee shall
indemnify and hold harmless the county at all times during the term of the
franchise granted hereby and specifically agrees that it will pay all damages
and penalties which the county may legally be required to pay as a result of
granting the franchise. Such damages and penalties shall include, but not be
limited to, damages arising out of copyright infringements, and other damages
arising out of the installation, operation, or maintenance of the CATV system
authorized herein, whether or not any act or omission complained of is
authorized, allowed, or prohibited by the franchisee. In case suit shall be
filed against the county either independently or jointly with the franchisee to
recover for any claim or damages, the franchisee, upon notice of it by the
county, shall defend the county against the action and, in the event of a final
judgment being obtained against the county, either independently or jointly
with the franchisee solely by reason of the acts of the franchisee, the
franchisee will pay said judgment and all costs and hold the county harmless
therefrom.
   (C)   Non-waiver. Neither the provisions of this section, nor any bonds
accepted by the county pursuant hereto, nor any damage recovered by the county
hereunder, shall be construed to excuse unfaithful performance by the
franchisee or limit the liability of the franchisee under this chapter or the
franchise for damages, either to the full amount of the bond, or otherwise.
(Ord. passed 10-18-1982)
CHAPTER 115: INSULATION AND ENERGY UTILIZATION LICENSING
Section
   
115.01   Authority
   
115.02   License required
   
115.03   Applications
   
115.04   Procedure for issuance
   
115.05   Termination and renewal of license
   
115.06   Suspension; revocation; appeal
   
115.07   Change of location
   
115.08   Permit required; fee; persons exempted
   
115.09   Bond required
   
115.10   Effective date
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to Chapter 703, North Carolina Session Laws
of 1977, and G.S. § 153A-134.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 115.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   On and after January 1, 1978, no person, firm, or corporation may for a
consideration install, alter, or restore, within any unincorporated part of the
county and within any city which adopts this chapter pursuant to the authority
granted in G.S. § 153A-122, any insulation or other materials or energy
utilization equipment designed or intended to meet the North Carolina State
Building Code requirements for insulation and energy utilization, standards who
is not either:
   (A)   Licensed as a contractor to do the proposed work under G.S. Chapter
87;
   (B)   Working under the supervision of a registered architect or
professional engineer;
   (C)   An owner working upon his or her own building; or
   (D)   Licensed under this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.03 APPLICATIONS.
   Every person desiring a license under this chapter shall submit an
application for such license to the Building Inspector conforming to the
following requirements.
   (A)   Form of application. Each application shall be a written statement
upon forms provided by the Building Inspector.
   (B)   Contents of application. Each application shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Name and home address of the applicant, if an individual, or home
office address, if a corporation or partnership;
      (2)   Names and home addresses of the partners, if a partnership;
      (3)   Names and home addresses of the officers and directors, if a
corporation;
      (4)   Place where the proposed business is to be located;
      (5)   Complete record of all convictions of felonies or acts involving
dishonesty, fraud, or deceit by the applicant or any employee, partner,
officer, or director of the applicant, whether in this or any other state or
jurisdiction;
      (6)   Complete record of all licenses held by the applicant or any
employee, partner, officer, or director of the applicant authorizing activities
of the type regulated by this chapter or other activities involving
construction, alteration, or modification of buildings and structures; and
      (7)   Information as to the circumstances in which any local, state, or
federal government or agency has refused, suspended, or revoked a license of
the type described in division (B)(6) above to applicant or any employee,
partner, officer, or director of the applicant.
   (C)   License fees. Each application shall be accompanied by a license fee
in the amount of $10 for such license such amount to be for the calendar year
and prorated by quarters to the end of such year.
   (D)   False statements. False statements on any application for a license
shall be grounds for immediate revocation or denial of such license.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 115.04 PROCEDURE FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Review by county officers. Each, application received by the Building
Inspector shall be promptly forwarded to the Sheriff’s office for review. Such
officers shall promptly make any contents and recommendations pertaining to the
application and forward them to the Building Inspector.
   (B)   Licensing agency. The application and any consents and recommendations
relating thereto shall be considered by the Building Inspector which shall then
issue or deny the license pursuant to the following standards.
   (C)   Standards. The Building Inspector shall issue the license unless it
shall find that the applicant or any employee, partner, officer, or director of
the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted within the last three years of a felony or any
act involving dishonesty, fraud, or deceit, whether in this or any other state
or jurisdiction;
      (2)   Has been refused a license to do the type of work authorized herein
or has had such a license suspended or revoked by any local, state, or federal
government or agency and such government or agency has not subsequently granted
or restored such license;
      (3)   Has knowingly made a false statement in the application; or
      (4)   Has failed to post the bond or other security required by §
115.09.
   (D)   Appeal from denial. Any applicant whose license is denied may appeal
the denial to the Board of Commissioners. After reasonable notice to the
applicant, the Board shall afford the applicant an opportunity to show why its
license should not be denied.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 115.05 TERMINATION AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   All licenses issued hereunder shall terminate on the last day of the
calendar year for which issued. Renewal of such licenses shall be pursuant to
the same procedures and requirements set forth for initial issuance.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 115.06 SUSPENSION; REVOCATION; APPEAL.
   (A)   The Building Inspector may suspend or revoke any license issued
hereunder at any time upon
a showing that the applicant or any employee, partner, officer, or director of
the applicant has:
      (1)   Knowingly made a false statement in the application for a license;
      (2)   Violated the North Carolina State Building Code requirements as to
insulation or energy utilization equipment or materials, whether in this or any
other jurisdiction; or
      (3)   Been convicted of an act involving dishonesty, fraud, or deceit
with respect to any contract entered into for work requiring this license.
   (B)   Any licensee whose license is suspended or revoked may appeal the
suspension or revocation to the Board of Commissioners. After reasonable notice
to the licensee, the Board shall afford the licensee an opportunity to show why
its license should not be suspended or revoked.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 115.07 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   The location of any licensed business may be changed, provided ten days’
notice thereof is given to the Building Inspector and operation at such new
location does not violate any applicable state or local law, ordinance, or
regulation.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 115.08 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE; PERSONS EXEMPTED.
   (A)   On and after January 1, 1978, no person, firm, or corporation may for
a consideration install, alter, or restore, within any unincorporated part of
the county and within any city which adopts this chapter pursuant to the
authority granted in G.S. § 153A-122, any insulation or other materials or
energy utilization equipment designed or intended to meet the North Carolina
State Building Code requirement for insulation and energy utilization standards
without first securing a permit for the work to be done. Such permit shall be
either:
      (1)   A general building permit, secured from the County Inspection
Department and evidencing full compliance with all applicable requirements of
the North Carolina State Building Code and other state and local laws; or
      (2)   An insulation and energy utilization permit, secured from the
Energy and Insulation Inspector or the county’s Inspection Department and
evidencing full compliance with the insulation and energy utilization standards
in the North Carolina State Building Code. For each such insulation and energy
utilization permit issued, there shall be a fee of $5.
   (B)   The following are exempted from the requirement of obtaining a permit:
      (1)   An owner working upon his or her own building; and
      (2)   Any person working under the supervision of a registered architect
or professional engineer.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.09 BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before a license shall be issued to any applicant, the applicant shall
post a bond with the county in the amount of $1,000. In lieu of posting a bond,
the applicant may deposit a cashier’s check or cash in the same amount.
   (B)   The security required by division (A) above shall be available to
indemnify any person for any damage which may accrue by reason of the
applicant’s failure properly to provide of install insulation energy
utilization equipment or other materials designed or intended to meet the North
Carolina State Building Code standards for insulation and energy utilization.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 115.10 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective on March 6, 1978.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to all the applicable punishment, penalties, and equitable
relief provided for by Chapter 703, North Carolina Session Laws of 1977, and
G.S. § 153A-123.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 116: MASSAGE AND MASSAGE PARLORS
Section
Massage Parlors Generally
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Licensed health professionals excluded
   
116.03   License required
   
116.04   Issuing of licenses; fee required
   
116.05   Persons ineligible for licenses
   
116.06   Posting required
   
116.07   Fingerprinting required
   
116.08   Prohibitions and limitations
   
116.09   Massage parlors subject to inspection
   
116.10   Revocation; due process hearing
   
116.11   Injunctive relief available
Massage of Persons of the Opposite Sex for Hire
   
116.25   Definitions
   
116.26   Massage of a person of the opposite sex for hire unlawful
   
116.27   Injunctive relief available
   
116.28   Conviction ground for license revocation
 
   
116.99   Penalty
MASSAGE PARLORS GENERALLY
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   M ASSAGE PARLOR. Any place of business where massagists are employed to
offer massage for a salary or fee.
   M ASSAGIST. One who offers to massage another for a salary or fee (either
male or female).
(Ord. passed 7-19-1976)
§ 116.02 LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS EXCLUDED.
   Licensed health professionals acting in the ordinary course of their
profession are neither massagists as defined §
116.01 nor owners of massage parlors as defined in §
116.01.
(Ord. passed 7-19-1976)
§ 116.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   A person may not work as a massagist or operate a massage parlor unless
licensed.
(Ord. passed 7-19-1976) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.04 ISSUING OF LICENSES; FEE REQUIRED.
   The Sheriff shall issue a license to any eligible person who pays an annual
fee of $50 for a massagist’s license or of $500 for a massage parlor license.
Such licenses shall be valid for one year only and must be renewed annually.
(Ord. passed 7-19-1976)
§ 116.05 PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSES.
   The following persons may not be licensed to work as a massagist or to hold
a massage parlor license:
   (A)   A person who has been convicted of a crime involving sexual misconduct
including but not limited to those covered by G.S. Chapter 14, Article 26
(Offenses Against Public Morality and Decency) and G.S. Chapter 14, Article 27
(Prostitution);
   (B)   A person under 18; or
   (C)   A person convicted of violating this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-19-1976)
§ 116.06 POSTING REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Sheriff shall provide a copy of this chapter for posting to each
massage parlor licensee upon licensing.
   (B)   Each massage parlor licensee shall display in a prominent place the
license issued pursuant to this chapter together with a copy of this chapter.
   (C)   Each massagist shall post his or her license in his or her work area.
(Ord. passed 7-19-1976) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.07 FINGERPRINTING REQUIRED.
   An applicant for a license shall submit to fingerprinting. The fingerprints
may be sent to the S.B.I., F.B.I., or other appropriate law enforcement
agencies.
(Ord. passed 7-19-1976)
§ 116.08 PROHIBITIONS AND LIMITATIONS.
   (A) Minimum age.
      (1)   No person in the business of massage may massage a person under 18
except under the direction of, or by order of, a licensed health professional.
      (2)   No person may employ anyone under 18 to work as a massagist.
   (B)   Limitation on hours of operation. Massage parlors may operate between
the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
   (C)   Limitation on scope of massage. No massagist may in the course of
business massage the penis, scrotum, mons veneris, vulva, or vaginal area of
another.
   (D)   Inducement to violate ordinances or provisions of state general
statutes relating to sexual misconduct. No person may induce a licensee or
employee or agent thereof to violate this chapter or any provision of the state
general statutes pertaining to sexual misconduct including, but not limited to,
that covered by G.S. Chapter 14, Article 26 (Offenses Against Public Morality
and Decency), and G.S. Chapter 14, Article 27 (Prostitution).
   (E)   Licensee required to supervise. Massage parlor licensees shall
supervise the conduct of massagists in their employ. Failure to suppress
illegal activity is grounds for revocation of a license.
(Ord. passed 7-19-1976) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.09 MASSAGE PARLORS SUBJECT TO INSPECTION.
   The Sheriff or any member of his or her department may inspect massage
business premises during the hours that they are open for business.
(Ord. passed 7-19-1976)
§ 116.10 REVOCATION; DUE PROCESS HEARING.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners shall revoke the license of any licensee
who has been convicted of:
      (1)   A crime involving sexual misconduct including, but not limited to,
those covered by G.S. Chapter 14, Article 26 (Offenses Against Public Morality
and Decency), and G.S. Chapter 14, Article 27 (Prostitution); or
      (2)   This chapter.
   (B)   Any revocation shall be made only after written notice of the grounds
for revocation has been given to the licensee and he or she has had an
opportunity to answer the charges in a hearing before the Board of
Commissioners.
   (C)   At a license revocation hearing conducted pursuant to division (A)
above, the Board shall consider only a licensee’s final conviction of:
      (1)   A crime involving sexual misconduct including, but not limited to,
those covered by G.S. Chapter 14, Article 26 (Offenses Against Public Morality
and Decency) and G.S. Chapter 14, Article 27 (Prostitution); or
      (2)   This chapter.
   (D)   The Board of Commissioners may revoke the license of any licensee who
is found to have failed to supervise the conduct of massagists in his or her
employ as provided for in §
116.08(E).
   (E)   At a license revocation hearing conducted pursuant to division (D)
above, the Board shall consider any competent evidence.
(Ord. passed 7-19-1976)
§ 116.11 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF AVAILABLE.
   This subchapter may be enforced by any appropriate equitable remedy as
authorized by G.S. § 153A-123.
(Ord. passed 7-19-1976)
MASSAGE OF PERSONS OF THE OPPOSITE SEX FOR HIRE
§ 116.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   M ASSAGE. The manipulation of body muscle or tissue by rubbing, stroking,
kneading, or tapping, by hand or mechanical device.
   M ASSAGE PARLOR. Any place of business where massagists are employed to
offer a massage for a salary or fee.
   M ASSAGIST. One who offers to massage another for a salary or fee (either
male or female).
(Ord. passed 7-19-1976)
§ 116.26 MASSAGE OF A PERSON OF THE OPPOSITE SEX FOR HIRE UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed as a massagist or holding a
massage parlor license issued by the county to massage a person of the opposite
sex for a salary or fee except under the signed order of a licensed health
professional.
(Ord. passed 7-19-1976) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.27 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF AVAILABLE.
   This subchapter may be enforced by any appropriate remedy authorized by G.S.
§ 153A-123.
(Ord. passed 7-19-1976)
§ 116.28 CONVICTION GROUND FOR LICENSE REVOCATION.
   A conviction for violation of this subchapter is hereby made grounds for
revoking a massagist’s or massage parlor license after a due process hearing as
the county may otherwise provide by ordinance.
(Ord. passed 7-19-1976)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of §§
116.01 through 116.11 is a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than
$50 or imprisonment for not more than 30 days.
   (C)   Violation of §§
116.25 through 116.28 is punishable by a fine of not more than $50 or
imprisonment for not more than 30 days.
(Ord. passed 7-19-1976; Ord. passed 7-19-1976)
CHAPTER 117: AMUSEMENTS AND RECREATION
Section
   
117.01   Carnival
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 CARNIVAL.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation engaged in the business of a carnival
company or a show of like kind, merry go-rounds, ferris wheels, riding devices
and other like amusements conducted for profit by any person shall be permitted
to operate in the county and such operation is hereby expressly prohibited,
unless the following requirements are met, to wit:
      (1)   The applicant prepare a written itemized list as provided for in
division (B) below under the supervision of the Tax Collector; and
      (2)   The applicant for such license personally appear before the County
Commissioners at a regular Board meeting and file with the Commissioners a
written itemized list of each activity to be conducted and a brief description
of such activity, the location where such activities shall be held, the
duration of such activities and the name and address, both temporary and
permanent, of the person in general charge of all activities and the name and
address, both temporary and permanent, of each independent operator who will be
in charge of each separate activity. This itemized written list shall be signed
under oath by the applicant.
   (B)   No activity on the list which the Commissioners question on the
grounds of public safety and morals shall be approved unless and until a public
hearing is held after first giving notice of such hearing for two consecutive
weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the county and unless and until
said Commissioners shall find as a fact after such hearing that these
activities are in the best interest of public safety and morals.
   (C)   Upon approval of said written itemized list of activities either at a
regular meeting or at a special meeting following a public hearing, the Tax
Collector shall issue a privilege license the operation of such activities and
the applicant shall for such license the sum of $50 for each week as portion
thereof which the activities are conducted.
   (D)   Provided, however, this chapter shall not apply to such operations at
agricultural fairs which operated at least one year prior to March 24, 1939.
(Ord. passed 7-3-1972) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of §
117.01 shall be punishable as a misdemeanor as provided for by state law.
(Ord. passed 7-3-1972)
CHAPTER 118: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
118.01   Sunday alcohol sales
§ 118.01 SUNDAY ALCOHOL SALES.
   Pursuant to the authority granted in G.S. § 153A-145.7, the sale of malt
beverages, unfortified wine, fortified wine, and mixed beverages is allowed in
the unincorporated areas of Harnett County beginning at 10:00 a.m. on Sunday
pursuant to the licensed premises’ permit issued under G.S. § 18B- 1001.
(Ord. passed 2-19-2018)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   WEAPONS
      
131.   EXPLOSIVES DETONATION
      
132.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: WEAPONS
Section
Firearms Discharge
   
130.01   Title
   
130.02   Purpose
   
130.03   Authority and enactment
   
130.04   Jurisdiction
   
130.05   Administration
   
130.06   Conflict with other laws
   
130.07   Amendment
   
130.08   Definition
   
130.09   Firearms restrictions
   
130.10   Exceptions
Concealed Handguns on County Property
   
130.25   Posting of signs required
   
130.26   Location of signs
 
   
130.99   Penalty
FIREARMS DISCHARGE
§ 130.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the “Harnett County Firearms
Discharge Ordinance” (hereinafter referred to as “this subchapter”).
(Ord. passed 2-2-2015; Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 130.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to implement standards for the discharge
of firearms that may cause injury, death, or damage to personal property,
whereas preserving the personal freedom to engage in such activities, while
promoting public health, safety, welfare, comfort, and prosperity of the
citizens of the county.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2015; Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 130.03 AUTHORITY AND ENACTMENT.
   The Board of Commissioners of the county, pursuant to the authority
conferred by the General Assembly of the state in G.S. § 153A-129, hereby
ordains and enacts into law this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2015; Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 130.04 JURISDICTION.
   Under the authority granted by G.S. § 153A-122, the county is hereby
authorized to enact this subchapter within the rural areas of the county and
outside and beyond the corporate limits of any municipality of the county.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2015; Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 130.05 ADMINISTRATION.
   The County Sheriff, or his or her designee, shall be responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2015; Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 130.06 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS.
   It is not intended that this subchapter repeal, abrogate, annul, impair, or
interfere with any existing provisions of any other ordinances or laws.
However, if the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations,
or ordinances of the county conflict with this subchapter, the more restrictive
or that imposing the higher standards will govern.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2015; Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 130.07 AMENDMENT.
   This subchapter may be amended from time to time by the Board of
Commissioners of the county on its own motion or on petition and after public
notice and hearing.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2015; Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 130.08 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREARM. A handgun, shotgun, rifle, cannon, or any device which is capable
of expelling a projectile using an explosive charge as a propellant.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2015; Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 130.09 FIREARMS RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm:
   (A)   On a parcel of property that contains 10,000 square feet or less in
overall dimension;
   (B)   Carelessly and heedlessly, so as to endanger any person or property;
   (C)   Without due caution or circumspection and in a manner so as to
endanger any person or property and resulting in the unlawful property damage
or bodily injury of another;
   (D)   In a manner resulting in the projectile crossing the property line of
another person without written permission of the owner;
   (E)   While under the influence of alcohol or a controlled substance ( UNDER
THE INFLUENCE is a determination by the investigating officer that the person
is intoxicated by alcohol or a narcotic to the point where physical and mental
faculties are appreciably diminished);
   (F)   When discharged on, from, or across the traveled portion of any public
street or highway; or
   (G)   Without a backstop or other method of containment that will adequately
contain the projectile to the property upon which it was discharged.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2015; Ord. passed 3-16-2015) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.10 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to rescind any of the state wildlife
laws nor shall it be construed to prohibit the following:
   (A)   Any citizen from discharging a firearm when lawfully defending his or
her person or property;
   (B)   Officers and enlisted personnel of the armed forces of the United
States while in the performance of their official duties and acting under
orders requiring them to carry arms, weapons, or explosives;
   (C)   Civil officers of the United States while in the performance of their
official duties;
   (D)   Officers of the state or of any county, city, or town charged with the
execution of the laws of the state when acting in the performance of their
official duties;
   (E)   The discharge of a firearm at a properly permitted and approved firing
range or facility operating as such prior to the adoption of this subchapter;
   (F)   Any citizen from discharging a firearm when protecting against the
attack of any dangerous or destructive animal or reptile;
   (G)   The discharges of a firearm while participating in a special event
such as turkey shoots that hold a valid local county permit;
   (H)   The performance of an historical ceremony or commemorative functions
that are conducted involving the discharge of firearms that do not involve the
release of projectiles;
   (I)   The discharge of a firearm while in the process of lawfully hunting
wild birds and/or animals in accordance with G.S. Chapter 113, Subchapter IV;
and/or
   (J)   Discharging a firearm into a device that is designed to receive and
contain projectiles without risk of escape, which is located within the
confines of an enclosed structure.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2015; Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
CONCEALED HANDGUNS ON COUNTY PROPERTY
§ 130.25 POSTING OF SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Subject to the limitations of G.S. § 14-415.23(d), the County Manager is
hereby ordered to post appropriate signage on each recreational facility,
building, or portion of a building now or hereafter owned, leased as lessee,
operated, occupied, managed, or controlled by the county, as well as the
appurtenant premises to such buildings, indicating that concealed handguns are
prohibited therein.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2015)
§ 130.26 LOCATION OF SIGNS.
   Said signs shall be visibly posted on the exterior of each entrance by which
the general public can access the building, appurtenant premises, or
recreational facility. The County Manager or his or her designee shall exercise
discretion in determining the necessity and appropriate location for other
signs posted on the interior of the building, appurtenant premises, or
recreational facility.
(Ord. passed 4-20-2015)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Each violation of §§
130.01 through 130.10 of this chapter shall constitute a Class 3 misdemeanor
and any person convicted of the same shall be fined not more than $500 and/or
imprisonment not exceeding 30 days. A violation may be enforced by an
appropriate, equitable remedy, including injunction and order of abatement
issued from a court of competent jurisdiction in accordance with G.S. § 153A-
123. Furthermore, a violation may cause a civil penalty to be recovered by the
county in a civil action in the nature of a debt. Each day’s continuing
violation of §§
130.01 through 130.10 shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2015; Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
CHAPTER 131: EXPLOSIVES DETONATION
Section
   
131.01   Title
   
131.02   Purpose
   
131.03   Authority and enactment
   
131.04   Jurisdiction
   
131.05   Conflict with other laws
   
131.06   Amendment
   
131.07   Definitions
   
131.08   Explosives restrictions
   
131.09   Exceptions
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Harnett County Explosives
Detonation Ordinance” (hereinafter referred to as “this chapter”).
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 131.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to implement standards for the detonation of
explosives that may cause injury, death, or damage to personal property,
whereas preserving the personal freedom to engage in such activities, while
promoting public health, safety, welfare, comfort, and prosperity of the
citizens of the county.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 131.03 AUTHORITY AND ENACTMENT.
   The Board of Commissioners of the county, pursuant to the authority
conferred by the General Assembly of the state in G.S. § 153A-128, hereby
ordains and enacts into law this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 131.04 JURISDICTION.
   Under the authority granted by G.S. § 153A-122, the county is hereby
authorized to enact this chapter within the rural areas of the county and
outside and beyond the corporate limits of any municipality of the county.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 131.05 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS.
   It is not intended that this chapter repeal, abrogate, annul, impair, or
interfere with any existing provisions of any other ordinances or laws.
However, if the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations,
or ordinances of the county conflict with this chapter, the more restrictive or
that imposing the higher standards will govern.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 131.06 AMENDMENT.
   This chapter may be amended from time to time by the Board of Commissioners
of the county on its own motion or on petition and after public notice and
hearing.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 131.07 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DETONATE. Any action that will cause an explosive material or device to
explode.
   DISCHARGE. To eject or release a projectile or object by a sudden release of
tension or pressure.
   ENCAPSULATE. To enclose within an object or outer shell for the purpose of
containment.
   EXPLODING TARGET. A device that is utilized for the purpose of shot
confirmation. This type of target is typically comprised of chemicals or
materials that react in an explosive manner once impacted by a projectile or a
detonating device.
   EXPLOSION. The sudden, loud, and violent release of energy that happens when
something breaks apart in a way that sends parts flying outward.
   EXPLOSIVE. A material or combination of materials that have a likelihood of
erupting in a violent manner creating an explosion.
   PERMANENT BUILDING. A building which is built, constructed, used, or
intended to support and/or shelter any use or occupancy that is attached to
real property by means of permanent foundation, plumbing, or electrical
connection and is required to obtain a permit and undergo an inspection process
in accordance with the North Carolina State Building Code.
   PUBLIC GATHERING PLACES. Locations that are subject to the assembly of a
group of individuals for a uniform purpose. The following shall be considered
as PUBLIC GATHERING PLACES: schools; churches; daycares; parks; playgrounds;
recreational areas; nursing homes; hospitals; family care/group homes; and
governmental buildings and grounds.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 131.08 EXPLOSIVES RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause an explosion:
   (A)   Within 1,500 feet as measured in a straight line from the point of
detonation to the property line of any public gathering place;
   (B)   Without written consent of the owners or tenants of all residential
dwellings or permanent buildings located within 1,500 feet as measured in a
straight line from the point of detonation;
   (C)   Carelessly or heedlessly in wanton disregard for the safety of others;
   (D)   Without due caution or circumspection and in a manner so as to
endanger any person or property and resulting in the unlawful property damage
or bodily injury of another;
   (E)   In a manner resulting in projectiles or shrapnel leaving the property
in which the detonation or explosion occurred;
   (F)   While under the influence of alcohol or a controlled substance ( UNDER
THE INFLUENCE is a determination by the investigating officer that the person
is intoxicated by alcohol or a narcotic to the point where physical and mental
faculties are appreciably diminished);
   (G)   In the form of an exploding target when encapsulated therefore
creating a projectile or shrapnel; or
   (H)   From the hours of sunset to sunrise.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.09 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not be construed to rescind any of the state wildlife
laws nor shall it be construed to prohibit the following:
   (A)   Officers and enlisted personnel of the armed forces of the United
States while in the performance of their official duties and acting under
orders requiring them to carry arms, weapons, or explosives;
   (B)   Civil officers of the United States while in the performance of their
official duties;
   (C)   Officers of the state or of any county, city, or town charged with the
execution of the laws of the state when acting in the performance of their
official duties;
   (D)   The detonation of an explosive at a properly permitted and approved
firing range or facility operating as such prior to the adoption of this
chapter;
   (E)   The performance of a historical ceremony or commemorative functions
that are conducted involving the discharge of firearms or detonation of
explosives that do not involve the release of projectiles;
   (F)   Any individual, group, or company that possess a valid permit and is
operating under all federal, state, and local guidelines prescribed for such
use; or
   (G)   The use of pyrotechnics or fireworks meeting exempt specifications as
referenced in the general statutes.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Each violation of this chapter shall constitute a Class 3 misdemeanor and
any person convicted of the same shall be fined not more than $500 and/or
imprisonment not exceeding 30 days. A violation of this chapter may be enforced
by an appropriate, equitable remedy, including injunction and order of
abatement issued from a court of competent jurisdiction in accordance with G.S.
§ 153A-123. Furthermore, a violation may cause a civil penalty to be recovered
by the county in a civil action in the nature of a debt. Each day’s continuing
violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
CHAPTER 132: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Failure to Yield to School Bus
   
132.01   Title
   
132.02   Authority
   
132.03   Notice of violation
   
132.04   Penalties
   
132.05   Appeals
   
132.06   Criminal pleadings
FAILURE TO YIELD TO SCHOOL BUS
§ 132.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the “Harnett County School Bus
Stop Arm Violations Ordinance” (hereinafter referred to as the “ordinance”).
(Ord. 2023-24, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 132.02 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to G.S. § 153A-246 and for the purpose
of providing for the civil enforcement of G.S. § 20-217 by means of an
automated school bus safety camera installed and operated on any school bus
located within Harnett County (hereinafter referred to as the “county”).
(Ord. 2023-24, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 132.03 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   The notice of violation shall be given in the form of a citation and
shall be received by the registered owner of the vehicle no more than 60 days
after the date of the violation.
   (B)   The citation shall include all of the following:
      (1)   The date and time of the violation, the location of the violation,
the amount of the civil monetary penalty imposed, and the date by which the
civil monetary penalty shall be paid or contested;
      (2)   An image taken from the recorded image showing the vehicle involved
in the violation;
      (3)   A copy of the statement or electronically generated affirmation
from a Harnett County Sheriff's Office deputy or a law enforcement officer
employed by a law enforcement agency with whom an agreement has been reached
with the county pursuant to G.S. § 115C-242.1(c) stating that, based upon
inspection of the recorded images, the owner's motor vehicle was operated in
violation of this subchapter;
      (4)   Instructions explaining the manner in which, and the time within
which, liability under the citation may be contested pursuant to §
132.03;
      (5)   A warning that failure to pay the civil monetary penalty or to
contest liability in a timely manner shall waive any right to contest liability
and shall result in a late penalty of $100, in addition to the civil monetary
penalty; and
      (6)   In citations issued to the registered owner of the vehicle, a
warning that failure to pay the civil monetary penalty or to contest liability
in a timely manner shall result in refusal by the Division of Motor Vehicles to
register the motor vehicle, in addition to imposition of the civil monetary
penalty and late penalty.
   (C)   The citation shall be processed by officials or agents of the county
and shall be served by any method permitted for service of process pursuant to
G.S. § 1A-l, Rule 4 of the North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure, or by
first-class mail to the address of the registered owner of the vehicle provided
on the motor vehicle registration, or, as applicable, to the address of the
person identified in an affidavit submitted by the registered owner of the
vehicle.
   (D)   The registered owner of a vehicle shall be responsible for a violation
unless the vehicle was, at the time of the violation, in the care, custody, or
control of another person or unless the citation was not received by the
registered owner within 60 days after the date of the violation. If the
registered owner provides an affidavit that the vehicle was, at the time of the
violation, in the care, custody, or control of another person or company, the
identified person or company may be issued a citation complying with the
requirements of division (B) above.
(Ord. passed 4-5-2021; Ord. 2023-24, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 132.04 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   The notice of violation shall be given in the form of a citation and
shall be received by the registered owner of the vehicle no more than 60 days
after the date of the violation.
   (B)   The citation shall include all of the following:
      (1)   The date and time of the violation, the location of the violation,
the amount of the civil monetary penalty imposed, and the date by which the
civil monetary penalty shall be paid or contested;
      (2)   An image taken from the recorded image showing the vehicle involved
in the violation;
      (3)   A copy of the statement or electronically generated affirmation
from a Harnett County Sheriff's Office deputy or a law enforcement officer
employed by a law enforcement agency with whom an agreement has been reached
with the county pursuant to G.S. § 115C-242.1(c) stating that, based upon
inspection of the recorded images, the owner's motor vehicle was operated in
violation of this subchapter;
      (4)   Instructions explaining the manner in which, and the time within
which, liability under the citation may be contested pursuant to §
132.03;
      (5)   A warning that failure to pay the civil monetary penalty or to
contest liability in a timely manner shall waive any right to contest liability
and shall result in a late penalty of $100, in addition to the civil monetary
penalty; and
      (6)   In citations issued to the registered owner of the vehicle, a
warning that failure to pay the civil monetary penalty or to contest liability
in a timely manner shall result in refusal by the Division of Motor Vehicles to
register the motor vehicle, in addition to imposition of the civil monetary
penalty and late penalty.
   (C)   The citation shall be processed by officials or agents of the county
and shall be served by any method permitted for service of process pursuant to
G.S. § 1A-l, Rule 4 of the North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure, or by
first-class mail to the address of the registered owner of the vehicle provided
on the motor vehicle registration, or, as applicable, to the address of the
person identified in an affidavit submitted by the registered owner of the
vehicle.
   (D)   The registered owner of a vehicle shall be responsible for a violation
unless the vehicle was, at the time of the violation, in the care, custody, or
control of another person or unless the citation was not received by the
registered owner within 60 days after the date of the violation. If the
registered owner provides an affidavit that the vehicle was, at the time of the
violation, in the care, custody, or control of another person or company, the
identified person or company may be issued a citation complying with the
requirements of division (B) above.
(Ord. passed 4-5-2021; Ord. 2023-24, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 132.04 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Violations of this subchapter shall be deemed a noncriminal violation
for which a civil penalty shall be assessed and for which no points authorized
by G.S. § 20-16(c) and no insurance points authorized by G.S. § 58-36-65 shall
be assigned to the registered owner or driver of the vehicle.
   (B)   The amount of the civil penalty shall be the following:
      (1)   First offense: $400.
      (2)   Second offense: $750.
      (3)   All subsequent offenses: $1,000.
   (C)   If a citation is not contested pursuant to §
132.03(A), the civil penalty shall be paid by the citation recipient within 30
days after receipt of the citation. If the citation recipient fails either to
pay the civil penalty or to request a hearing to contest the citation in
accordance with §
132.03(A) within 30 days after receipt of the citation, the citation recipient
shall have waived the right to contest responsibility for the violation and
shall be subject to a late penalty of $100 in addition to the civil penalty
assessed under this section.
   (D)   If the citation is contested pursuant to §
132.03(A) and the decision is adverse to the person contesting the citation,
the civil penalty shall be paid within 30 days after receipt of the adverse
decision, unless the citation recipient appeals the adverse decision pursuant
to §
132.03(D). If the adverse decision is appealed, and if the final decision on
appeal is adverse to the citation recipient, then payment of the civil penalty
is due within 30 days after the citation recipient receives notice of the final
adverse decision on appeal.
   (E)   If the registered owner of a motor vehicle who receives a citation
fails to pay the civil penalty when due, the North Carolina Division of Motor
Vehicles shall refuse to register the motor vehicle for the owner in accordance
with G.S. § 20-54(11). The county may establish procedures for providing notice
to the Division of Motor Vehicles and for the collection of these penalties and
may enforce the penalties by civil action in the nature of debt.
(Ord. passed 4-5-2021; Ord. 2023-24, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 132.05 APPEALS.
   (A)   A person wishing to contest a citation shall, within 30 days after
receiving the citation, deliver to the officials or agents of the county a
written request for a hearing accompanied by an affidavit stating the basis for
contesting the citation, including, as applicable:
      (1)   The name and address of the person other than the registered owner
who had the care, custody, or control of the vehicle;
      (2)   A statement that the vehicle involved was stolen at the time of the
violation, with a copy of any insurance report or police report supporting this
statement;
      (3)   A statement that the citation was not received within 60 days after
the date of the violation, and a statement of the date on which the citation
was received; or
      (4)   A copy of a criminal pleading charging the person with a violation
of G.S. § 20- 217 arising out of the same facts as those for which the citation
was issued.
      (5)   A statement that there was not a violation of G.S. § 20-217.
   (B)   If the person to whom a citation is issued makes a timely request for
a hearing under division (A) above, a summons shall be issued by any method
permitted for service of process pursuant to G.S. § 1A-l, Rule 4 of the North
Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure, directing the person to appear at a place
and time specified in the summons in order to contest the citation at an
administrative hearing.
   (C)   A non-judicial administrative hearing shall be conducted by an
administrative appeals board established by the county for contested citations
or penalties issued or assessed under this subchapter. The decision on a
contested citation shall be rendered in writing within five days after the
hearing and shall be served upon the person contesting the citation by any
method permitted for service of process pursuant to G.S. § 1A-l, Rule 4 of the
North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure. If the decision is adverse to the
person contesting the citation, the decision shall contain instructions
explaining the manner and the time within which the decision may be appealed
pursuant to division (D) below.
   (D)   A person may appeal an adverse decision of the administrative appeals
board to the Harnett County, North Carolina District Court by filing a notice
of appeal with the Harnett County Clerk of Superior Court. Any such appeal
shall name the County of Harnett as the adverse party to the appeal.
Enforcement of an adverse decision shall be stayed pending the outcome of a
timely appeal. Except as otherwise provided in this section, appeals shall be
in accordance with the procedure set forth in Article 19 of Chapter 7A of the
General Statutes applicable to appeals from the Magistrate to the District
Court. For purposes of calculating the time within which any action must be
taken to meet procedural requirements of the appeal, the date upon which the
person contesting the citation is served with the adverse decision shall be
deemed the date of entry of judgment.
(Ord. passed 4-5-2021; Ord. 2023-24, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 132.06 CRIMINAL PLEADINGS.
   (A)   In the event a person is charged in a criminal pleading with a
violation of G.S. § 20-217, all of the following shall apply:
      (1)   The charging law enforcement officer shall provide written notice
containing the name and address of the person charged with a violation of G.S.
§ 20-217 and the date of violation to the Harnett County Sheriffs Office or the
law enforcement agency with whom the county has entered an agreement pursuant
to G.S. § 115C-242.1(c) to affirm a violation of this subchapter;
      (2)   After receiving notice that a person has been charged with a
violation of G.S. § 20-217, the county or a private vendor contracted with
under G.S. § 115C-242.1 to process the civil citations shall not issue a civil
citation imposing a civil penalty against that person arising out of the same
facts as those for which the person was charged in the criminal pleading; and
      (3)   The county or a private vendor contracted with under G.S. § 115C-
242.1 to process the civil citations shall issue a full refund of any civil
penalty payment received from a person who was charged in a criminal pleading
with a violation of G.S. § 20-217 if the civil penalty arose out of the same
facts as those for which that person was charged in the criminal pleading,
together with interest at the legal rate as provided by G.S. § 24-1 from the
date the penalty was paid until the date of the refund.
   (B)   The county shall provide each law enforcement agency within its
jurisdiction with the name and address of the county official or other law
enforcement official employed by a law enforcement agency with whom the county
has entered an agreement pursuant to G.S. § 115C-242.1(c) to affirm a violation
of this subchapter to whom written notice of persons charged with a violation
of G.S. § 20-217 should be given pursuant to division (A) above.
(Ord. passed 4-5-2021; Ord. 2023-24, passed 11-6-2023)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   REGULATORY CODES
      
152.   VOLUNTARY AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
      
153.   UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
      
154.   COMMUNICATIONS TOWER ORDINANCE
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Map size specifications
   
150.02   Fire Code
   
150.03   Airport hangar construction
   
150.04   Permit fees
   
150.05   Documents conveying real property to be presented to the county’s Tax
Assessor prior to recordation
Land Records Modernization Program
   
150.20   Adoption
   
150.21   Address requirements
   
150.22   Parcel numbers
   
150.23   Presentation of instrument
   
150.24   Exclusive authority
   
150.25   Map presentment requirements
   
150.26   Same or related parcels processing order
   
150.27   Parcels not previously plotted
   
150.28   Effective date
Mobile Homes and Manufactured Homes
   
150.40   Annual registration of house trailers, mobile homes, and similar
vehicular structures, and the issuance of evidence of registration to be
exhibited upon said vehicles
   
150.41   Banned manufactured homes
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 MAP SIZE SPECIFICATIONS.
   The county’s Register of Deeds shall not accept for registration any map or
plat unless it has an outside marginal size of not more than 21 inches by 30
inches nor less than eight and one-half inches by 11 inches including one and
one-half inches for binding on the left margin and one-half inch border on each
of the other sides.
(Ord. passed 10-17-1988; Ord. passed 8-19-1991)
§ 150.02 FIRE CODE.
   (A)   This section shall be known as the “Harnett County Fire Prevention
Ordinance”, hereinafter referred to as “this section”. This section adopts the
2018 edition of the North Carolina State Building Code: Fire Prevention Code
2015 IFC with North Carolina Amendments (excluding Appendices A-J), and any
future Fire Prevention Codes as amended from time to time by the North Carolina
State Building Code Board. This Code (excluding Appendices A-J) is hereby
adopted and incorporated as fully set out at length herein. The provisions
thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the county including
municipalities for which the county provides fire inspection services by
contract agreement.
   (B)   Any matter in this section which is contrary to existing procedure
shall prevail and to that extent any existing ordinance to the contrary in
areas within the county are repealed in that respect only.
   (C)   Within this section when reference is made to the Fire Official and
his or her duties therein that the Fire Marshal of the county or his or her
designee shall be deemed to be the responsible official insofar as enforcing
the provisions of this section is concerned.
   (D)   The frequency of inspection is a local right granted to the Board of
Commissioners of the county by action of the state’s Building Code Council on
September 10, 1991 and is determined as follows:
      (1)   Once every year for hazardous, institutional, high rise, assembly,
and multi-family residential;
      (2)   Once every two years for educational except public schools and
industrial; and
      (3)   Once every three years for businesses, mercantile, storage,
churches, and synagogues.
   (E)   The county’s Board of Commissioners shall establish fees for permits,
inspections, certificates, approvals, and other functions performed pursuant to
this section, as the county Board of Commissioners deem necessary.
(Ord. passed 9-24-1991; Ord. passed 2-1-1993; Ord. passed 7-21-1997; Ord.
passed 10-20-2014; Ord. passed 8-19-2019)
§ 150.03 AIRPORT HANGAR CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Authority. This section is adopted pursuant to G.S. § 153A-275, which
statute permits a county by ordinance to adopt reasonable rules and regulations
to protect and regulate a public enterprise belonging to or operated by it.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish rules and
regulations which are minimum standards for the construction of the location or
hangars at the Harnett County Airport.
   (C)   Compliance with laws and regulations; permits. Each hangar constructed
or located at Harnett County Airport shall comply with all federal, state,
county, and local building codes and other regulations pertaining thereto,
including electrical and plumbing codes, if applicable. Permits may be obtained
through the county’s Inspection Department upon compliance with all applicable
laws.
   (D)   Design approval. A complete set of floor plan drawings and
specifications for any hangar construction proposed at Harnett County Airport
shall be submitted to the Airport Committee for review and approval of design.
   (E)   Materials. All hangars will be constructed of metal or masonry
materials or a combination of the two with an exterior light green color. Floor
areas of hangars shall be concrete or asphalt, except, however, if concrete
runners are used for the wheel areas, the remaining area of the floor may be a
compacted surface.
   (F)   Size. Each hangar constructed will be sufficient in size to fully
enclose within its lateral limits each aircraft using the facility.
(Ord. passed 8-3-1981)
§ 150.04 PERMIT FEES.
   Permit fees for buildings and general land usage construction shall be as
follows:
Central Permitting Fee Schedule
Description Fee
Central Permitting Fee Schedule
Description                             Fee
ENVIRONMENTAL
New soil analysis/improvement permit    $750
New well                                $250
Plan review - food and lodging          $200
Plan review - pool                      $300
Return trip fee (not properly marked)/  $25
revision
Septic tank - existing/reinspection     $100
FIRE MARSHAL
Final inspection                        $50
Fire alarm testing                      $35 + $2 per device
Fixed fire suppression                  $35 + $2 per nozzle
Foster homes inspection                 $25
Installation and removal TK/EA TK       $100
Pipes / UST / AGST                      $100
Plans up to 5,000 square feet           $50
Plans 5,001 to 10,000 square feet       $100
Plans 10,001 to 25,000 square feet      $150
Plans over 25,000 square feet           $250
Special assembly                        $50
Sprinkler certification test            $35 + $2 per head
Standpipes                              $50
LAND USE
Land use permit                         $25
Land use permit renewal                 $75
Planning billboard review               Refer to commercial building permit
                                        fees
Planning sign ground                    $1/sq. ft.
Planning sign wall                      $100
Planning sign renewal                   $100
Planning site plan review community     $400
(nonresidential)
Planning site plan review minor         $100
(nonresidential)
Planning site plan review neighborhood  $400
(nonresidential)
Planning site plan review regional      $1,200
(nonresidential)
Site plan revision                      $40
PUBLIC UTILITY
Meter cost 3/4"                         $70
Meter cost 1"                           $195
Set up/transfer fee                     $15
Sewer Buies Creek/CTY                   $950
Sewer capacity fee                      $1,800
Sewer Riverside/Bunnlevel-Erwin         $2,500
Sprinkler tap                           $300
Water capacity fee                      $1,200
Water or sewer deposit, per utility     $25
Water tap 3/4"                          $800
Water tap 1"                            $1,150
Water tap 2"                            $2,500
Central Permitting Fee Schedule
Residential Description Fee
Central Permitting Fee Schedule
Residential                Description                Fee
                           200 amps                   $60
                           > 200 amps                 $90
Electrical                 All other/minimum          $60
                           electrical
                           Residential solar panels   $80
Insulation                 Insulation                 $55
                           Double wide mobile home    $200
Manufactured home          Single wide mobile home    $150
                           Travel trailer (RV)        $125
                           Triple wide mobile home    $225
                           All other / minimum        $60
                           mechanical
                           Any mechanical unit        $75
Mechanical                 without electrical
                           Up to 2 unit replacement   $90
                           (includes electrical)
                           More than 2 unit (includes $110
                           electrical)
                           Day care and group home    $100
                           inspections
                           Demolition; residential
                           and commercial (may        $75
                           require asbestos report)
                           Expired permits 6 months   $150
                           to 2 years
                           Expired permits over 2     Full cost of approved fee
                           years                      schedule
                           Home owner’s recovery fun$10
Miscellaneous              Mail in fee per
                           application or replacement $3
                           permit
                           Plan review (commercial)   $50
                           Plan review (industrial)   $100
                           Plan review (residential)  $25
                           Reinspection, 1 thru 9     $50
                           violations, per trip
                           Reinspection, 10 or more   $75
                           violations, per trip
                           Swimming pools (inground   $100
                           only)
                           Minimum plumbing <= 2      $50
                           fixtures
Plumbing                   Residential plumbing >2    $100
                           <=6 fixtures
                           Sewer tap                  $50
                           Water tap                  $40
Residential attached and   0 to 500 sq. ft.           $100
detached garage, storage   501 to 1,200 sq. ft.       $175
buildings (building permit 1,201 to 2,000 sq. ft.     $250
only) - all trades to be   2,001 > more sq. ft.       $325
purchased at same time
Residential additions,     1,200 to 2,000 sq. ft      $700
renovation and fire damage
renovation (building       2,001 to > more sq. ft.    $805
permit includes trades)
Central Permitting Fee Schedule
Residential Building Fee Schedule Fee
Central Permitting Fee Schedule
Residential Building Fee Schedule      Fee
Description by dimension per sq. ft. (heated and garage) - fee includes
building, electrical, plumbing, mechanical, insulation and t.s.p. permit
1,000 to 1,500 sq. ft.                 $600
1,501 to 2,000 sq. ft.                 $700
2,001 to 2,500 sq. ft.                 $805
2,501 to 3,000 sq. ft.                 $940
3,001 to 3,500 sq. ft.                 $1,045
3,501 to 4,000 sq. ft.                 $1,200
4,001 to 4,500 sq. ft.                 $1,290
4,501 to 5,000 sq. ft.                 $1,390
More than 5,001 sq. ft.                $1,390 + additional fee of $.20 per sq.
                                       ft.
Modular classroom, sale office trailer $125
Modular home (fee includes electrical, $375
plumbing, mechanical)
Moved house or building (fee includes  $375
electrical, plumbing, mechanical)
County Board of Education Classroom Huts
Single room                            $100
Two rooms                              $200
Three or more rooms                    $300
*   There are additional fee requirements for additions or renovations to
modular home or moved house set ups
Specialized inspections (in additional to traditional permits)
Same day plumbing under slab / slab    $50
inspections
Same day re-inspections of violations  $50
Sheathing and roof framing inspection  $50
*   All building permits are double the cost on work done without permits
(after the fact)
 
Commercial, Industrial and Multi-Family Fee Schedule
Description Fee
Commercial, Industrial and Multi-Family Fee Schedule
Description                                                             Fee
Up to $2,500                                                            $160
$2,501 - $25,000                                                        $300
$25,001 - $50,000                                                       $500
$50,001 - $100,000                                                      $905
$100,001 - $200,000                                                     $1,710
$200,001 - $350,000                                                     $2,915
$350,001 - $500,000                                                     $3,820
$500,001 - $750,000                                                     $5,075
$750,001 - $1,000,000                                                   $6,330
Fees greater than $6,330 = plus .002 of each added $1,000,000, or portion
thereof
Example: 2,000,000 total cost: 2,000,000 - 1,000,000 - 1,000,000 x .002 = 2,000
+ 6,330 = 8,330 total permit fee
Each T-pole                                                                $60
Commercial modular unit (any size) plus each trade cost                    $375
*   Fee is for each trade and is separate from the total cost of the
project
 
(Ord. passed 7-1-2017)
§ 150.05 DOCUMENTS CONVEYING REAL PROPERTY TO BE PRESENTED TO THE COUNTY’S TAX
ASSESSOR PRIOR TO RECORDATION.
   When any document conveying real property (other than a deed of trust or
mortgage) is submitted to the Register of Deeds of the county for recordation,
the Register of Deeds shall refuse to record the document unless it has been
first presented to the county’s Tax Assessor and the Assessor has noted on the
face thereof that he or she has obtained the information he or she desires from
the document and the person recording it, which information shall be as
follows: the name and address of the grantor(s) and grantee(s); and tax real
estate parcel number which has been assigned to the parcel being conveyed or
the parent tract of the parcel being conveyed.
(Res. passed 5-15-1989)
LAND RECORDS MODERNIZATION PROGRAM
§ 150.20 ADOPTION.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to state statutes.
(Ord. passed 12-2-1985)
§ 150.21 ADDRESS REQUIREMENTS.
   The Register of Deeds shall not accept for registration any map or
instrument affecting real property unless the grantor(s)’ and grantee(s)’
mailing address is affixed on the face thereof.
(Ord. passed 12-2-1985)
§ 150.22 PARCEL NUMBERS.
   (A)   The Register of Deeds shall not accept for registration any document
(as defined in division (B) below), map, or plat unless the parcel identifier
numbers of all parcels affected have been assigned and are recorded on the face
of the instrument.
   (B)   DOCUMENT, as used in this section, shall refer to any instrument or
judgment:
      (1)   Conveying a freehold estate in real property, except deeds of trust
or mortgages;
      (2)   Conveying mineral rights in real property; or
      (3)   Altering, in any manner, the legal description of real property.
   (C)   However, until the Land Records Office becomes operational, as
described in division (D) below, the words “of all parcels affected” shall mean
the following.
      (1)   In a division of a tract or tracts, the parcel number(s) of the
tract(s) being divided shall be given. A subdivision map shall be handled in
the same manner.
      (2)   When two or more properties are combined, the parcel numbers of the
separate tracts prior to being combined shall be given or, if part of two or
more properties are combined, the parcel numbers of the tracts from which the
parts were taken prior to being combined shall be given.
      (3)   Property transfers not involving a division or combination of lands
shall have indicated on the face of the instrument the parcel number(s) of the
tract(s) being transferred. A deed of correction or a corrected plat shall be
handled in the same manner.
   (D)   Until the time as the county Land Records Office becomes operational
with respect to creating and assigning geo-coded parcel identifier number(s),
the county’s Tax Supervisor’s Office shall create parcel numbers in accordance
with the procedures in effect at that time. When the Land Records Office
assumes responsibility for maintenance and creation of geo-coded land records,
it shall do so in accordance with the county procedures manual for creating and
assigning parcel identifier numbers and §§
150.23 through 150.27 of this subchapter herein shall become operable at the
time as the Land Records Office becomes functional.   
(Ord. passed 12-2-1985; Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.23 PRESENTATION OF INSTRUMENT.
   Presentation of the instrument to the Land Records Office, as herein
described, does not constitute filing the instrument for registration.
(Ord. passed 12-2-1985)
§ 150.24 EXCLUSIVE AUTHORITY.
   The Land Records Office shall have exclusive authority to create and assign
parcel identifier numbers and shall maintain a procedures manual for that
purpose. The procedures manual shall include provisions to ensure that no two
parcels of property will be assigned the same parcel identifier number.
(Ord. passed 12-2-1985)
§ 150.25 MAP PRESENTMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every map (including a map incorporated by reference in a deed),
subdivision plat, or land survey plat that creates or more fully defines one or
more parcels of land must have a parcel identifier number written on it before
it can be registered.
   (B)   This requirement shall not apply to floodplain maps, annexation and
municipal boundary maps, and similar maps prepared by governmental agencies.
(Ord. passed 12-2-1985)
§ 150.26 SAME OR RELATED PARCELS PROCESSING ORDER.
   All instruments pertaining to the same parcel or to related parcels shall be
assigned parcel identifier numbers and processed according to the date and time
when they were presented to the Land Records Office.
(Ord. passed 12-2-1985)
§ 150.27 PARCELS NOT PREVIOUSLY PLOTTED.
   (A)   Any deed, deed of trust, map or plat, or other instrument that
contains a description of a parcel or parcels not previously plotted on the
county large-scale cadastral maps and for which a parcel identifier number does
not exist must contain a description of the parcel or parcels of sufficient
accuracy and detail that the Land Records Office is able to locate and plot the
parcel or parcels on the county maps from the description standing alone, or
with the aid of supporting maps or other documents furnished by the person
presenting the instrument.
   (B)   The description contained in any map or plat that is to be registered
and that creates or more fully defines a parcel or parcels not previously
plotted on the county large-scale cadastral maps and for which a parcel
identifier number does not exist must be sufficiently precise to create a
consistent closed parcel boundary within a plotting accuracy of one-fortieth of
an inch.
(Ord. passed 12-2-1985)
§ 150.28 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter became effective January 13, 1986.
(Ord. passed 12-2-1985)
MOBILE HOMES AND MANUFACTURED HOMES
§ 150.40 ANNUAL REGISTRATION OF HOUSE TRAILERS, MOBILE HOMES, AND SIMILAR
VEHICULAR STRUCTURES, AND THE ISSUANCE OF EVIDENCE OF REGISTRATION TO BE
EXHIBITED UPON SAID VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definition. As used in this section, the terms MOBILE HOME, TRAILER,
or HOUSE TRAILER (all being referred to herein as MOBILE HOMES) shall mean and
shall be so construed to mean: any vehicle or structure so designed and
constructed as will permit occupancy thereof as sleeping quarters or a
residence, temporary or permanent, for one or more persons; or the conduct of
any business or profession, occupation or trade, or similar use thereof as a
selling or advertising device; and so designed that it is or may be mounted on
wheels for the purpose of conveyance on the public streets, roads, or highways,
propelled or drawn by its own or other power; and shall include all the mobile
homes, regardless of the fact that they are underpinned or placed on a
permanent foundation, until the time as the mobile home assumes the character
of real property and is so listed for ad valorem tax purposes. This definition
shall include, but is not limited to, a mobile home as defined in any
applicable county district or other local health regulations in force and
effect in the county, in G.S. Chapter 143, Article 9A, in G.S. Chapter 105,
Article 18, and other applicable general statutes.
   (B)   Duty of owner or person in possession. Every owner or person in
possession thereof, if other than the owner, of a mobile home located within
the county shall register the mobile home during the regular ad valorem tax
listing period of each year with the Tax Supervisor’s office of the county;
provided that registration as herein referred to shall not relieve any person
from the obligation to list all property for ad valorem tax purposes in the
manner required by law, and more particularly the Machinery Act of 1971 (G.S.
§§ 105-271 et seq.) and provisions contained therein, including but not limited
to G.S. § 105-316 and G.S. §§ 105-316.1 et seq. Exceptions to this duty are:
      (1)   A mobile home temporarily located within the county with the
express predetermined intent and purpose of conveyance outside of the county
within 30 days after arrival;
      (2)   A mobile home held for display or exhibition purposes by a mobile
home dealer licensed by the state and displaying the license;
      (3)   A mobile home passing through the county on a public street, road,
or highway for conveyance elsewhere; and
      (4)   A mobile home held for sale by a manufacturer.
   (C)   Registration. Registration shall occur when the mobile home is
properly listed with the county Tax Supervisor’s office for ad valorem tax
purposes; and upon the listing, the Tax Supervisor’s office shall deliver a
numbered plate, sticker, or other appropriate device to the person registering
or listing the mobile home, which device shall be displayed on the mobile home
on or near the main door or exit so as to be clearly visible from the exterior;
provided, however, that any mobile home otherwise required to be registered
pursuant to this subchapter shall not be deemed exempted from the provisions of
the subchapter, if listing for ad valorem tax purposes is not required.
   (D)   Registration after January 1. Mobile homes moved into or located
within the county after January 1 of each year shall likewise be registered
within 30 days after the mobile homes become located within the county; and in
this event, registration shall be made by application to the county’s Tax
Supervisor’s office or to the appropriate Department of Inspections (at the
time of electrical inspection or other required approval), if the mobile home
at that time has not been registered. No permit provided for pursuant to the
county ordinances, including, but not limited to, a special use permit, or the
State Building Code shall be issued until the mobile home shall be registered
as herein required.
   (E)   Information. Registration shall consist of delivery of a sticker or
decal or other appropriate device upon receipt of the following information to
be obtained from the owner or other person registering the vehicle:
      (1)   Name of the owner and person to be in possession if other than the
owner;
      (2)   Year, make, and model of the mobile home or vehicle; and
      (3)   Place, meaning tax block, if applicable, and lot where the mobile
home is or will be located.
   (F)   Registration period. The period of registration for mobile homes shall
be for the 12-month period of January 1 through December 31 of each year, and
such mobile homes shall be registered annually thereafter, in the manner
required herein. The decal or other device shall show the year for which issued
and the date of expiration.
   (G)   Issuance of evidence of registration. For every registered mobile
home, the county’s Tax Supervisor’s Office or other department referred to
herein shall issue the person registering the mobile home an appropriate
numbered plate, sticker, or decal. Upon satisfactory evidence that any
registration numbered plate, sticker, or decal has been lost or destroyed, the
registrar shall issue a duplicate to the owner or person listing.
   (H)   Display of evidence or registration. Every mobile home located within
the county, except as otherwise herein provided, shall, throughout the current
issue year, display the assigned numbered plate, sticker or decal as herein
required and in a manner as to be visible from the exterior at all times.
   (I)   Registration by Department of Inspection. In order to facilitate the
registration of mobile homes under the provisions of this subchapter and to
provide a procedure for registering mobile homes at times other than when
property is listed for ad valorem tax purposes, the head of the Department of
Inspections or his or her designee is authorized to register the vehicles as
herein provided, and shall forthwith make a report of the registration to the
county’s Tax Supervisor.
   (J)   Effective Date. This subchapter became effective on January 1, 1977.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.41 BANNED MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   All manufactured homes built prior to the development and adoption of
Federal Safety Standards (adopted July l, 1976) shall not be issued a building
permit to locate or be moved within the Stewarts Creek Township of the county.
(Res. passed 12-1-2003)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   If any person shall violate any provision, rule or regulation of §
150.03, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
punished as prescribed by G.S. § 14-4. Each day that a person shall continue to
do any act in violation of §
150.03 shall constitute a distinct and separate offense. Further, §
150.03 may be enforced by injunction and order of abatement as provided for in
G.S. § 153A-123.
   (C)   Any owner or person in possession of a mobile home who shall violate
or fail to comply with any of the provisions of §
150.40, or any person who shall counsel, aid, or abet any violation or failure
to comply shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed
$50, or by imprisonment for not more than 30 days.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 8-3-1981)
CHAPTER 151: REGULATORY CODES
Section
Adoption of Regulatory Codes by Reference
   
151.001   Enactment clause
   
151.002   Scope of chapter and codes
   
151.003   Building Code adopted
   
151.004   Plumbing Code adopted
   
151.005   Heating, Air Conditioning, Refrigeration, and Ventilation Code
adopted
   
151.006   Electrical Code adopted
   
151.007   Residential Building Code adopted
   
151.008   Mobile Home Regulations adopted
   
151.009   Amendments to codes
   
151.010   Compliance with codes
   
151.011   Copies of codes with Director of Inspections
   
151.012   Enforcement of a Housing Code
Inspections Department
   
151.025   Organization of the Department
   
151.026   Legal requirement
   
151.027   General duties of Department and Inspectors
   
151.028   Conflicts of interest
   
151.029   Reports and records
   
151.030   Inspections procedure
   
151.031   Certificate of occupancy
   
151.032   Oversight not to legalize violation
   
151.033   Powers of inspection officials
Enforcement
   
151.045   Registration of contractors
   
151.046   License required
   
151.047   Bond required of contractors
   
151.048   Permits required
   
151.049   Application for permit
   
151.050   Plans and specifications
   
151.051   Limitations on issuance of permits
   
151.052   Issuance of permits
   
151.053   Revocation of permits
   
151.054   Time limitations on validity of permits
   
151.055   Changes in work
   
151.056   Permit fees
Condemnation, Repair, and Demolition of Unsafe Buildings
   
151.070   Periodic inspection
   
151.071   Defects in buildings to be corrected
   
151.072   Unsafe buildings condemned
   
151.073   Removing notice from condemned building
   
151.074   Action in event of failure to take corrective action
   
151.075   Order to take corrective action
   
151.076   Appeal; finality of order if not appealed
 
   
151.999   Penalty
ADOPTION OF REGULATORY CODES BY REFERENCE
§ 151.001 ENACTMENT CLAUSE.
   In pursuance of the authority conferred by G.S. Chapter 153A, Article 18 and
other general statutes relating to building safety and maintenance, now
therefore, the Board of Commissioners of the county does ordain and enact into
law this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.002 SCOPE OF CHAPTER AND CODES.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter and of the regulatory codes herein
adopted shall apply to the following:
      (1)   The location, design, material, equipment, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, maintenance, moving, demolition, removal,
use, and occupancy of every building or structure or any appurtenances
connected or attached to the building or structure;
      (2)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use, and
maintenance of plumbing systems consisting of house sewers, building drains,
waste and vent systems, hot and cold water supply systems, and all fixtures and
appurtenances thereof;
      (3)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use, and
maintenance of mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilation, air
conditioning and refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment, and
appurtenances thereof; and/or
      (4)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use, and
maintenance of electrical systems and appurtenances thereof.
   (B)   The adoption of this chapter and the codes herein adopted by reference
shall constitute a resolution within the meaning of G.S. § 143-138(b) making
the regulatory codes herein adopted applicable to dwellings and out buildings
used in connection therewith and to apartment buildings used exclusively as the
residence of not more than two families and commercial buildings.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.003 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The North Carolina State Building Code has been adopted by North Carolina
and enforced by the county in accordance with such regulations.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.004 PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   The North Carolina Plumbing Code has been adopted by North Carolina and
enforced by the county in accordance with such regulations. This Code is also
applicable to one and two family residences of the county.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.005 HEATING, AIR CONDITIONING, REFRIGERATION, AND VENTILATION CODE
ADOPTED.
   The North Carolina Heating-Air Conditioning Code has been adopted by North
Carolina and enforced by the county in accordance with such regulations. This
Code is also applicable to one and two family residences of the county.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.006 ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The National Electrical Code has been adopted by North Carolina and enforced
by the county in accordance with such regulations.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.007 RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The North Carolina Uniform Residential Building Code has been adopted by
North Carolina and enforced by the county in accordance with such regulations.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.008 MOBILE HOME REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   The State of North Carolina Regulations for Mobile Homes has been adopted by
North Carolina and enforced by the county in accordance with such regulations.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.009 AMENDMENTS TO CODES.
   Amendments to the regulatory codes adopted by reference herein, which are
from time to time adopted and published by the agencies or organizations
referred to herein, shall be effective in the county at the time the amendments
are approved and filed with the county Building Inspector as provided in §
151.011.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.010 COMPLIANCE WITH CODES.
   (A)   All buildings or structures which are hereafter constructed,
reconstructed, erected, altered, extended, enlarged, repaired, demolished, or
moved shall conform to the requirements, minimum standards, and other
provisions of either the North Carolina State Building Code, Volume I or the
North Carolina Uniform Residential Building Code, whichever is applicable, or
of both if both are applicable.
   (B)   Every building or structure intended for human habitation, occupancy,
or use shall have plumbing, plumbing systems, or plumbing fixtures installed,
constructed, altered, extended, repaired, or reconstructed in accordance with
the minimum standards, requirements, and other provisions of the North Carolina
Plumbing Code (North Carolina State Building Code, Volume II, Plumbing).
   (C)   All mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilation, air
conditioning and refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment, and
appurtenances shall be installed, erected, altered, repaired, used, and
maintained in accordance with the minimum standards, requirements, and other
provisions of the North Carolina Heating-Air Conditioning-Refrigeration-
Ventilation Code (North Carolina State Building Code, Volume III, Heating-Air
Conditioning, and the like).
   (D)   All electrical wiring, installations, and appurtenances shall be
erected, altered, repaired, used, and maintained in accordance with the minimum
standards requirements, and other provisions of the National Electrical Code
(North Carolina State Building Code, Volume IV, Electrical).
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.011 COPIES OF CODES WITH DIRECTOR OF INSPECTIONS.
   An official copy of each regulatory code adopted herein, and official copies
of all amendments thereto, shall be kept on file in the office of the county’s
Building Inspector. The copies shall be the official copies of the codes and
amendments.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.012 ENFORCEMENT OF A HOUSING CODE.
   The Inspections Department shall be responsible for the enforcement of any
ordinance or codes adopted by the county’s Board of Commissioners relating to
the repair, closing, and demolition of dwelling unfit for human habitation,
pursuant to G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 19.
(Ord. passed - -)
INSPECTIONS DEPARTMENT
§ 151.025 ORGANIZATION OF THE DEPARTMENT.
   The Inspections Department shall consist of a Director of Inspections and
one or more of the following: Deputy Inspector; Zoning Inspector; Building
Inspector; Electrical Inspector; Plumbing Inspector; Housing Inspector;
Heating-Air Conditioning Inspector; and Fire Prevention Inspector; or such of
the above positions as may be authorized by the Board of Commissioners. Any
inspector may hold one or more titles, and more than one inspector may be
assigned the same title.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.026 LEGAL REQUIREMENT.
   No person may engage in code enforcement as defined in G.S. § 143-151.8(a)
(3) unless he or she holds a currently valid standard certificate, limited
certificate, or probationary certificate issued by the North Carolina Code
Officials Qualification Board (hereinafter referred to as “the Board”).
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.027 GENERAL DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT AND INSPECTORS.
   It shall be the duty of the Inspections Department to enforce all of the
provisions of this chapter and of the state and local regulatory codes adopted
herein, and to make all inspections necessary to determine whether or not the
provisions of this chapter and these codes are being met. In addition, it is
the responsibility of the Inspections Department to enforce all other
ordinances, when specified, adopted as regulatory means.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.028 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   No officer or employee of the Inspections Department shall be financially
interested in the furnishing of labor, material, or appliances for the
construction, alteration, or maintenance of a building or any part thereof, or
in the making of plans or specifications therefor, unless he or she is the
owner of the buildings. No officer or employee of the Inspections Department
shall engage in any work which is inconsistent with his or her duties or with
the interests of the county or of any city or town in which he or she has code
enforcement responsibilities.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.029 REPORTS AND RECORDS.
   The Inspections Department, and each Inspector, shall keep complete,
permanent, and accurate records in convenient form of all applications
received, permits issued, inspections, and reinspections made, and all other
work and activities of the Inspections Department. Periodic reports shall be
submitted to the County Administrator, governing body, and other agencies of
the county, and to the town managers, mayors, and governing boards as may be
required.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.030 INSPECTIONS PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Inspections. 
      (1)   The Inspection Department shall inspect all buildings and
structures and work therein for which a permit of any kind has been issued as
often as necessary in order to determine whether the work complies with this
chapter and the appropriate codes.
      (2)   When deemed necessary by the appropriate Inspector, materials and
assemblies may be inspected at the point of manufacture of fabrication or
inspections may be made by approved and recognized inspection organizations;
provided, no approval shall be based upon reports of the organizations unless
the same are in writing and certified by a responsible officer of the
organization.
      (3)   All holders of permits, or their agents, shall notify the
Inspections Department and the appropriate Inspector at each of the following
stages of construction so that approval may be given before work is continued:
         (a)   Foundation inspection. To be made after trenches are excavated
and the necessary reinforcements and forms are in place, and before concrete is
placed. Drilled footings, piles, and similar types of foundations shall be
inspected as installed;
         (b)   Framing inspection. To be made after all structural framing is
in place and all rough-in of plumbing and electrical, heating, and cooling
systems have been installed, after all fire blocking, chimney bracing and vents
are installed, but before any of the structure is enclosed or covered. Poured
in place concrete structural elements shall be inspected before each pour of
any structural member;
         (c)   Insulation inspection. To be made prior to insulation coverage
before sheet rock, paneling, and the like is hung;
         (d)   Electrical inspection. To be performed prior to installation of
insulation;
         (e)   Fireproofing inspection. To be made after all areas required to
be protected by fireproofing are lathed, but before the plastering or other
fireproofing is applied;
         (f)   Final inspection. To be made after building or structure has all
doors hung, fixtures set, and ready for occupancy, but before the building is
occupied. Final inspection for installation or replacement of any plumbing,
heating, cooling, electrical wiring and/or electrical equipment to be
made before the equipment is put into service; and
         (g)   Requirement for correction of non-compliance. Upon inspection of
any stage of construction or installation as mentioned above, should the
Inspector find the construction or installation not to be in compliance with
the appropriate codes governing the work, the permit holder shall be notified
to make the necessary corrections to comply with the codes. Failure to comply
with the Inspector’s written orders shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter. The owner of the building or structure shall be notified of any
failure to comply with the Inspector’s order. Additional permits (requested by
a person, firm, or corporation possessing a correction notice) shall not be
issued until the corrections have been made, or a reasonable length of time has
been coordinated between the permit holder and the appropriate inspector to
make the correction.
   (B)   Call for inspection. 
      (1)   Request for inspections may be made to the office of the
Inspections Department or to the appropriate Inspector. The Inspections
Department shall make inspections as soon as practicable after request is made
therefor, provided the work is ready for inspection at the time the request is
made.
      (2)   Reinspection may be made at the convenience of the Inspector. No
work shall be inspected until it is in proper and completed condition ready for
inspection. All work which has been concealed before the inspection and
approval shall be uncovered at the request of the Inspector and placed in
condition for proper inspection. Approval or rejection of the work shall be
furnished by the appropriate Inspector in the form of a notice posted on the
building or given to the permit holder or his or her agent. Failure to call for
inspection or proceeding without approval at each stage of construction shall
be deemed a violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Street or alley lines.
      (1)   Where the applicant for a permit proposes to erect any building or
structure on the line of any street, alley, or other public place, he or she
shall secure a survey of the line of the street, alley, or other public place,
adjacent to the property upon which the building or structure is to be erected
before proceeding with the construction of the building or structure.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to see that the
building does not encroach upon the street, alley, or other public place.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.031 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No new building or part thereof shall be occupied, and no addition or
enlargement of any existing building shall be occupied, and no existing
building after being altered or moved shall be occupied, and no change of
occupancy shall be made in any existing building or part thereof, until the
Inspections Department has issued a certificate of occupancy therefor. A
temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued for a portion or portions of a
building which may safely be occupied prior to final completion and occupancy
of the entire building. Application for a certificate of occupancy may be made
by the owner or his or her agent after all final inspections have been made for
new buildings, or, in the case of existing buildings after supplying the
information and data necessary to determine compliance with this chapter, the
appropriate regulatory codes and the zoning ordinance for the occupancy
intended. The Inspections Department shall issue a certificate of occupancy
when, after examination and inspection, it is found that the building in all
respects conforms to the provisions of this chapter, and the regulatory codes.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.032 OVERSIGHT NOT TO LEGALIZE VIOLATION.
   No oversight or dereliction of duty, on the part of any inspector or other
official or employee of the Inspections Department, shall be deemed to legalize
the violation of any provision of this chapter or any provision of any
regulatory codes herein adopted.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.033 POWERS OF INSPECTION OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Authority. Inspectors are authorized, empowered, and directed to
enforce all the provisions of this chapter and the regulatory codes herein
adopted.
   (B)   Right-of-entry. Inspectors shall have the right-of-entry on any
premises within the jurisdiction of the regulatory codes herein adopted at
reasonable hours for the purpose of inspection or enforcement of the
requirements of this chapter and the regulatory codes, upon presentation of
proper credentials.
   (C)   Stop orders. Whenever any building or structure or part thereof is
being demolished, constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in a
hazardous manner, or in substantial violation of any provisions of this chapter
or any other county ordinance, or in violation of any provisions of any
regulatory code herein adopted, or in violation of the terms of the permit or
permits issued therefor, or in a manner as to endanger life or property, the
appropriate inspector may order the specific part of the work which is in
violation or presents a hazard to be immediately stopped. The order shall be in
writing and directed to the person doing the work, and shall state the specific
work to be stopped, the specific reasons therefor, and the conditions under
which the work may be resumed.
(Ord. passed - -)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.045 REGISTRATION OF CONTRACTORS.
   Every person carrying on the business of building contractor, plumbing
contractor, heating-air conditioning contractor, electrical contractor, or
insulation contractor, within the county, shall register at the office of the
Inspections Department, giving name, place of business, and state or county
license number.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.046 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   All contractors performing work which requires a permit or an inspection
must be licensed to do the work. License issued by the state will suffice for
work in the county. Where the state does not license a particular type of work,
then the county’s Inspections Department may, through administrative means,
license a contractor for a particular type of work such as insulation
installation. The license shall be issued in accordance with the county
ordinance which establishes fees and permits requirements.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.047 BOND REQUIRED OF CONTRACTORS.
   Every person required to register at the office of the Inspections
Department under §
151.046 shall give a good and sufficient bond in the sum of $1,000 to be
approved by the County Attorney and the attorney representing any city or town
participating in this chapter conditioned upon faithful performance of duty in
doing any work which he or she may have contracted to do, and to indemnify the
county against loss in any manner whatsoever for any unskillful or negligent
work or conduct in the performance of the duties imposed by the provisions of
this chapter or any regulatory code herein adopted, or any damage to any
utility lines, streets, or sidewalks, in the county or in any city or town
participating in this chapter, or for the defective or improper material in the
work, or for any damage which may accrue to any person by reason of any default
of the contractor for the payment of an inspection or other fees required by
this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.048 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Building permit. No person shall commence or proceed with the
construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, removal, or demolition of any
building or other structure, or any part thereof, without a written permit
therefor from the Building Inspector; provided, however, that no building
permit shall be required for work the total cost of which does not exceed
$1,000 and which does not involve any change of the structural parts of the
stairways, elevators, fire escapes, or other means of egress of the building or
the structure in question. In cases where additional sewage will be created and
the building will not be connected to a public sewage system, no permit will be
issued until the owner receives a certificate of approval of his or her
proposed method of sewage disposal from the county’s Health Department.
   (B)   Plumbing permit. 
      (1)   No person shall commence or proceed with the installation or
extension of any plumbing system without a written permit therefor from the
Plumbing Inspector; provided, however, no permit shall be required for minor
repairs or replacement on the house side of a trap to an installed system of
the plumbing if the repairs or replacements do not disrupt the original water
supply or the waste or ventilation systems.
      (2)   In cases where the building will not be connected to a public
sewage system, no permit will be issued until the owner receives a certificate
of approval of his or her proposed method of sewage disposal from the county’s
Health Department.
   (C)   Heating-air conditioning permit. No person shall commence or proceed
with the installation, extension, or alteration of any heating or cooling
equipment systems without a written permit from the Heating-Air Conditioning
Inspector.
   (D)   Electrical permit. No person shall commence or proceed with the
installation, extension, or alteration of any electrical wiring without a
written permit therefor from the Electrical Inspector, provided, however, no
permit shall be required for the electrical wiring of devices, appliances, and
equipment installed by or for an electrical public utility corporation for the
use of the corporation in the generation, transmission, distribution, or
metering of electrical energy, or for the use of the corporation in the
operation of signals or the transmission of intelligence.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.049 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Written application shall be made for all permits required by this chapter,
and shall be made on forms provided by the Inspections Department. The
application shall be made by the owner of the building or structure affected or
by his or her authorized agent or representative and must be submitted in
accordance with the county ordinance which establishes fees and permits
requirements.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.050 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Detailed plans and specifications shall accompany each application for
permit when the estimated total cost of the building or structure is in excess
of $330,000 and for any other building or structure where plans and
specifications are deemed necessary by the appropriate Inspector in order for
him or her to determine whether the proposed work complies with the appropriate
regulatory codes. Plans shall be drawn to scale with sufficient clarity to
indicate the nature and extent of the work proposed, and the plans and
specifications together shall contain information sufficient to indicate that
the work proposed will conform to the provisions of this chapter and the
appropriate regulatory codes.
   (B)   Where plans and specifications are required, a copy of the same shall
be kept at the work site until all authorized operations have been completed
and approved by the appropriate Inspector.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.051 LIMITATIONS ON ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued for any building or structure that would be
in violation of any state general statute applicable to the county, this
chapter, or other regulatory code herein adopted.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued unless the required plans and specification
are identified by the name and address of the author thereof.
   (C)   If the state general statutes require that plans for certain type of
work be prepared only by a registered architect or registered engineer, then no
permit may be issued unless the plans and specifications bear the state seal of
a registered architect or registered engineer. If a provision of the state
general statutes or of any ordinance requires that the work be done by a
licensed specialty contractor of any kind, no permit for the work may be issued
unless the work is to be performed by a duly licensed contractor.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.052 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   When proper application for a permit has been made, and the appropriate
Inspector is satisfied that the application and the proposed work comply with
the provisions of this chapter and the appropriate regulatory codes, he or she
shall issue the permits, upon payment of the proper fee(s).
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.053 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   The appropriate Inspector may revoke and require the return of any permit by
notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason for the revocation.
Permits shall be revoked for: any material departure from the approval
application, plans, or specifications; refusal or failure to comply with proper
orders of the Inspectors; refusal or failure to comply with requirements of
this chapter and any applicable state or local laws; and/or for false
statements or misrepresentations made in securing the permit.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.054 TIME LIMITATIONS ON VALIDITY OF PERMITS.
   All permits issued under this chapter shall expire by limitation six months
after the date of issuance if the work authorized by the permit has not
commenced. If, after commencement, the work is discontinued for a period of 12
months, the permit therefor shall immediately expire. No work authorized by any
permit which has expired shall thereafter be performed until a new permit
therefor has been secured.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.055 CHANGES IN WORK.
   After a permit has been issued, no change or deviations from the terms of
the application, plans, and specifications, or the permit, except where the
changes or deviations are clearly permissible under the state’s Building Code,
shall be made until specific written approval of the changes or deviations has
been obtained from the appropriate Inspector.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.056 PERMIT FEES.
   Fees for permits shall be based upon the total estimated cost of the
proposed work, including all sub-contracts, if any, but in no case shall the
total estimated cost be less than the market value of similar completed work in
the same or similar location as determined by the appropriate Inspector(s).
Failure to obtain permits at the proper time will cause the fees charged to be
doubled. (See §
150.04.)
(Ord. passed - -)
CONDEMNATION, REPAIR, AND DEMOLITION OF UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 151.070 PERIODIC INSPECTION.
   The Inspections Department shall make periodic inspections as the county’s
Board of Commissioners shall direct, by ordinance or otherwise, for unsafe,
insanitary, or otherwise hazardous and unlawful conditions in structures within
their territorial jurisdiction. In addition, it shall make other inspections as
may be required when it has reason to believe that the conditions may exist in
a particular structure. In exercising this power, members of the Department
shall have a right to enter on any premises within the jurisdiction of the
Department at all reasonable hours for the purpose of inspection or other
enforcement action, upon presentation of proper credentials.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.071 DEFECTS IN BUILDINGS TO BE CORRECTED.
   Whenever a local Inspector finds any defects in a building, or finds that
the building has not been constructed in accordance with the applicable state
and local laws, or that a building because of its condition is dangerous or
contains fire hazardous conditions, it shall be his or her duty to notify the
owner or occupant of the building of its defects, hazardous conditions, or
failure to comply with law. The owner, or the owner of the contents, shall
immediately remedy defects, hazardous conditions, or violations of law in the
property he or she owns.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.072 UNSAFE BUILDINGS CONDEMNED.
   Every building which shall appear to the Inspector to be especially
dangerous to life because of its liability to fire or because of bad condition
of walls, overloaded floors, defective construction, decay, unsafe wiring or
heating system, inadequate means of egress, or other causes, shall be held to
be unsafe, and the Inspector shall affix a notice of the dangerous character of
the structure to a conspicuous place on the exterior wall of the building.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.073 REMOVING NOTICE PROM CONDEMNED BUILDING.
   If any person shall remove any notice which has been affixed to any building
or structures by a local Inspector of the county, which notice shall state the
dangerous character of the building or structure, he or she shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.074 ACTION IN EVENT OF FAILURE TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   (A)   If the owner of a building or structure which has been condemned as
unsafe pursuant to state law shall fail promptly to take corrective action, the
local Inspector shall give the owner written notice, by certified or registered
mail to the last known address of the owner or by personal service, which
states:
      (1)   The building or structure is in such a condition as appears to
constitute a fire or safety hazard or to be dangerous to life, health, or other
property;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the Inspector at a designated place
and time, which time shall be not less than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which hearing the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or
by counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   Following the hearing, the Inspector may issue an order to repair,
close, vacate, or demolish the building or structures as appears appropriate.
   (B)   If the name or whereabouts of the owner cannot, after due diligence,
be discovered, the notice shall be considered properly and adequately served if
a copy thereof is posted on the outside of the building or structure in
question at least ten days prior to the hearing and a notice of the hearing
published in a newspaper having general circulation in the county at least once
and at least one week prior to the hearing.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.075 ORDER TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   If, upon a hearing held pursuant to the notice prescribed in state law, the
Inspector shall find that the building or structure is in such a condition as
to constitute a fire or safety hazard or to be dangerous to life, health, or
other property, he or she shall make an order in writing, directed to the owner
of the building or structure, requiring the owner to remedy the conditions by
repairing, closing, vacating, or demolishing the building or structure or
taking other steps as may be necessary, within the period, not less than 60
days, as the Inspector may prescribe.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.076 APPEAL; FINALITY OF ORDER IF NOT APPEALED.
   Any owner who has received an order under G.S. § 153A-369 (§
151.075 above) has a right of appeal from the order to the county governing
board, provided notice of the appeal is given in writing to the Inspector and
to the Clerk as agent of the governing board, within ten days following
issuance of the order. In the absence of an appeal, the order of the Inspector
shall be final. The governing board shall, on receipt of an appeal, hear the
same within a reasonable time and take action to affirm or revoke the order as
it deems reasonable and proper.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   If the owner of a building or structure fails to comply with an order issued
pursuant to state law from which no appeal has been taken, or fails to comply
with an order of the county governing board following an appeal, he or she
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in the discretion of the
court.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 152: VOLUNTARY AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Title
   
152.002   Authority
   
152.003   Purpose
   
152.004   Definitions
   
152.005   Subdivision ordinance and zoning ordinance review
   
152.006   County land use planning
   
152.007   Consultation authority
   
152.008   State agency notification
Agricultural Advisory Board
   
152.020   Creation
   
152.021   Membership
   
152.022   Membership requirements
   
152.023   Tenure
   
152.024   Vacancies
   
152.025   Removal
   
152.026   Funding
   
152.027   Advisory Board procedure
   
152.028   Duties
Creation of Voluntary Agricultural Districts
   
152.040   Implementation
   
152.041   Education
   
152.042   Addition
Certification and Qualification of Farmland
   
152.055   Requirements
Application, Approval, and Appeal Procedure
   
152.070   Application procedure
   
152.071   Approval process
   
152.072   Appeal
Revocation and Renewal of Conservation Agreement
   
152.085   Revocation
   
152.086   Renewal
Condemnation Public Hearings
   
152.100   Purpose
   
152.101   Procedure
Notification
   
152.115   Record notice of proximity to Voluntary Agricultural District
   
152.116   Signage
   
152.117   Maps
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 TITLE.
   This chapter comes from an ordinance of the county’s Board of Commissioners
entitled “Voluntary Agricultural District Ordinance” and hereinafter referred
to as “this chapter”.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
§ 152.002 AUTHORITY.
   The sections of this chapter are adopted pursuant to authority conferred by
the G.S. §§ 106-735 through 106-744 and G.S. Chapter 153A.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
§ 152.003 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote agricultural values and the
general welfare of the county and more specifically: increase identity and
pride in the agricultural community and its way of life; encourage the economic
and financial health of agriculture; and increase protection from non-farm
development and other negative impacts on properly managed farms.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
§ 152.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVISORY BOARD. Harnett County Agricultural Advisory Board.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. Harnett County Board of Commissioners.
   CHAIRPERSON. Chairperson of the Harnett County Agricultural Advisory Board.
   DISTRICT. Voluntary Agricultural District as established by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
§ 152.005 SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE AND ZONING ORDINANCE REVIEW.
   Developers of major subdivisions or planned unit developments shall
designate, on preliminary development plans, the existence of the districts
within one aerial mile of the proposed development.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
§ 152.006 COUNTY LAND USE PLANNING.
   It shall be the duty of the Advisory Board to advise the Board of
Commissioners or the agency or office to which the Board of Commissioners
delegate authority to oversee county land use planning, on the status,
progress, and activities of the county’s agricultural district program and to
also coordinate the formation and maintenance of agricultural districts with
the county’s land use planning activities and the county’s land use plan if one
currently exists at the time this chapter is enacted or when one is formed.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
§ 152.007 CONSULTATION AUTHORITY.
   The Advisory Board may consult with the state’s Cooperative Extension
Service, the Soil and Water Conservation District office, the state’s
Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services, and any other individual,
agency, or organization the Advisory Board deems necessary to properly conduct
its business.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
§ 152.008 STATE AGENCY NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   A copy of this chapter shall be sent to the office of the state’s
Commissioner of Agriculture and Consumer Services, the Board of Commissioners,
the county’s Office of the state’s Cooperative Extension Service, and the Soil
and Water Conservation District office after adoption.
   (B)   At least annually, the Advisory Board shall submit a written report to
the Commissioner of Agriculture and Consumer Services on the county’s
agricultural district program, including the following information:
      (1)   Number of landowners enrolled;
      (2)   Number of acres enrolled;
      (3)   Number of acres certified during the reporting period;
      (4)   Number of acres denied during the reporting period;
      (5)   Number of acres for which applications are pending;
      (6)   Copies of any amendments to this chapter; and
      (7)   Any other information the Advisory Board deems useful.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
AGRICULTURAL ADVISORY BOARD
§ 152.020 CREATION.
   The Board of Commissioners shall establish an Agricultural Advisory Board to
implement the provisions of this program.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
§ 152.021 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Advisory Board shall consist of one representative from each
Commissioner’s District plus an additional two at-large members. All will be
appointed by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
§ 152.022 MEMBERSHIP REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Each Advisory Board member shall be a county resident or landowner.
   (B)   A minimum of five members shall be actively engaged in farming. The
remaining two should be from agribusinesses or agricultural related interests.
   (C)   The members actively engaged in farming, as well as other members,
shall be selected for appointment by the Board of Commissioners from the names
of individuals submitted to the Board of Commissioners by the Soil and Water
Conservation District Board of Supervisors, the county’s Office of the state’s
Cooperative Extension Service, the U.S. Farm Service Agency County Committee,
nonprofit agricultural organizations, conservation organizations, agribusiness,
and the public at large.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
§ 152.023 TENURE.
   The initial Board is to consist of three appointees for terms of one year;
two appointees for terms of two years; and two appointees for terms of three
years. Thereafter, all appointments are to be for terms of three years, with
reappointment permitted.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
§ 152.024 VACANCIES.
   Any vacancy on the Advisory Board is to be filled by the Board of
Commissioners for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
§ 152.025 REMOVAL.
   Any member of the Advisory Board may be removed by the Board of
Commissioners upon a two-thirds vote of the Commissioners. No cause for removal
shall be required.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
§ 152.026 FUNDING.
   The per diem compensation, if any, of the members of the Advisory Board may
be fixed by the Board of Commissioners and funds may be appropriated to the
Advisory Board to perform its duties.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
§ 152.027 ADVISORY BOARD PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Chairperson. The Advisory Board shall elect a Chairperson and Vice-
Chairperson each year at its first meeting of the fiscal year. The Chairperson
shall preside over all regular or special meetings of the Advisory Board. In
the absence or disability of the Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson shall
preside and shall exercise all the powers of the Chairperson. Additional
officers may be elected as needed.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The Advisory Board may adopt rules of procedure not
inconsistent with this section or with other provisions of state law.
   (C)   Advisory Board year. The Advisory Board shall use the county fiscal
year as its meeting year.
   (D)   Meetings. Meetings of the Advisory Board shall be held at the call of
the Chairperson and at other times as the Advisory Board may specify in its
rules of procedure or upon the request of at least a majority of the Advisory
Board membership. A meeting shall be held at least annually and notice of any
meetings to the members shall be in writing, unless otherwise agreed to by all
Advisory Board members. Meeting dates and times shall be posted as far in
advance as possible on the door of the meeting site or by other means of public
dissemination of the meeting dates as may be agreed upon by at least a majority
of the Advisory Board membership. All meetings shall be open to the public.
   (E)   Majority vote. All issues shall be decided by a majority vote of the
members of the Advisory Board, except as otherwise stated herein. All Board
members must be present.
   (F)   Records. The Advisory Board shall keep minutes of the proceedings
showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to
vote, indicating that fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and
other official actions, all of which shall be filed in the office of the
Advisory Board and shall be a public record.
   (G)   Administrative. The Advisory Board may contract with the county’s Soil
and Water Conservation District Board and staff to serve the Board for record
keeping, correspondence, application procedures under this chapter, and
whatever services the Board needs to complete its duties.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2007; Ord. passed 4-6-2015)
§ 152.028 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Advisory Board shall:
      (1)   Review and approve applications for qualified farmland and
voluntary agricultural districts and make recommendations concerning the
establishment and modification of agricultural districts;
      (2)   Conduct public hearings;
      (3)   Advise the Board of Commissioners on projects, programs, or issues
affecting the agricultural economy or activities within the county that will
affect agricultural districts;
      (4)   Review and make recommendations concerning proposed amendments to
this chapter; and
      (5)   Perform other agricultural related tasks or duties assigned by the
Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The Advisory Board may:
      (1)   Develop a draft county wide farmland protection plan as defined in
G.S. § 106-744(e)(1) for presentation to the Board of Commissioners; or
      (2)   Study additional methods of farmland preservation and make
recommendations to the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
CREATION OF VOLUNTARY AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS
§ 152.040 IMPLEMENTATION.
   In order to implement the purposes stated in §
152.003, this program provides for the creation of Voluntary Agricultural
Districts, hereinafter referred to in this chapter as “district” or
“districts”, which shall contain one or more qualified farms within areas
designated by the Advisory Board.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
§ 152.041 EDUCATION.
   The county may take action as it deems appropriate through the Advisory
Board or other entities or individuals to encourage the formation of the
districts and to further their purposes and objectives, including the
implementation of a public information program to reasonably inform landowners
of the district program.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
§ 152.042 ADDITION.
   Qualifying farmland in the county with an existing district shall be added
to the district as herein provided.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
CERTIFICATION AND QUALIFICATION OF FARMLAND
§ 152.055 REQUIREMENTS.
   To secure county certification as qualifying farmland, a farm must:
   (A)   Be participating in the farm present-use-value taxation program
established by G.S. §§ 105-277.2 through 105-277.7, or is otherwise determined
by the county to meet all the qualifications of this program set forth in G.S.
§ 105-277.3;
   (B)   Be managed in accordance with Natural Resource Conservation Service
guidelines for implementing best management practices (BMPs) as a part of a
sound conservation management system;
   (C)   Be the subject of a preservation agreement, as defined in G.S. § 121-
35, between the county and the owner of the land that prohibits non-farm use or
development of the land for a period of at least ten years, except for the
creation of not more than three lots that meet applicable county zoning and
subdivision regulations; and
   (D)   Be located in the unincorporated area of the county.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2007; Ord. passed 4-6-2015)
APPLICATION, APPROVAL, AND APPEAL PROCEDURE
§ 152.070 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A landowner may apply to participate in the program by making
application to the Chairperson of the Advisory Board or a designated staff
person. The application shall be on forms provided by the Advisory Board. The
application to participate in a district may be filed with the certification
for qualifying farmland.
   (B)   An agreement to sustain, encourage, and promote agriculture must be
executed by the landowner and recorded with the Advisory Board. Permitted uses
include agriculture, horticulture, forestry, and outdoor recreation.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
§ 152.071 APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   Upon submission of the application to the Advisory Board, the Advisory
Board shall meet within 30 days to approve or disapprove the application. The
Chairperson shall notify the applicant by first class mail of approval or
disapproval of participation in the district.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application, the Chairperson will forward copies
immediately to the following offices which shall be asked to provide comments,
if any, to the Advisory Board prior to the date set for the Advisory Board vote
on the application:
      (1)   The county’s Tax Assessor; and
      (2)   The county’s Soil and Water Conservation District Office.
   (C)    Site visits may be conducted by the county’s Soil and Water
Conservation District staff to determine if sound conservation management
systems are being followed.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2007; Ord. passed 4-6-2015)
§ 152.072 APPEAL.
   If an application is denied by the Advisory Board, the petitioner shall have
30 days to appeal the decision to the Board of Commissioners. The appeal shall
be presented in writing. The decision of the Board of Commissioners is final.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
REVOCATION AND RENEWAL OF CONSERVATION AGREEMENT
§ 152.085 REVOCATION.
   (A)   By providing written notice to the Advisory Board, a landowner of
qualifying farmland may revoke the conservation agreement or the Advisory Board
may revoke the same conservation agreement based on noncompliance by the
landowner, subject to the same provisions as contained in §
152.072 for appeal of denials. The revocation shall result in loss of
qualifying farm status and loss of eligibility to participate in a district.
Absent noncompliance by the landowner, neither the Advisory Board nor the Board
of Commissioners shall revoke any preservation agreements prior to its
expiration.
   (B)   The county’s Tax Assessor will notify Advisory Board when the farmland
is no longer participating in the present-use-value taxation program.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
§ 152.086 RENEWAL.
   Conservation agreements shall be deemed automatically renewed for an
additional term of ten years, unless either the Advisory Board or the landowner
gives written notice to the termination date.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
CONDEMNATION PUBLIC HEARINGS
§ 152.100 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 106-740, no state or local public agency or governmental
unit may formally initiate any action to condemn any interest in qualifying
farmland within a District until the agency or unit has requested the Advisory
Board to hold a public hearing on the proposed condemnation.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
§ 152.101 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Upon receiving a request, the Advisory Board shall publish notice
describing the proposed action in the appropriate newspapers of the county
within five business days of the request, and will in the same notice notify
the public of a public hearing on the proposed condemnation, to be held within
ten days of receipt of the request.
   (B)   The Advisory Board shall meet to review:
      (1)   Whether the need for the project has been satisfactorily
established by the agency or unit of government involved, including a review of
any fiscal impact analysis conducted by the agency involved; and
      (2)   Whether there are alternatives to the proposed action that have
less impact and are less disruptive to the agricultural activities of the
District within which the proposed action is to take place.
   (C)   The Advisory Board may consult with a County Agricultural Extension
Agent, a Soil and Water Conservation District representative, and any other
individuals, agencies, or organizations deemed by the Advisory Board to be
necessary for its review of the proposed action.
   (D)   Within five days after the hearing, the Advisory Board shall make a
report containing its findings and recommendations regarding the proposed
action. The report shall be made available to the public prior to its being
conveyed to the decision making body of the agency proposing the acquisition.
   (E)   There will be a period of ten days allowed for public comment on the
report of the Advisory Board.
   (F)   After the ten-day period for public comment has expired, the Advisory
Board shall submit a final report containing all of its findings and
recommendations regarding the proposed action to the decision making body of
the agency proposing the acquisition.
   (G)   The total time period, from the day that a request for a hearing has
been received to the day that a final report is issued to the decision making
body of the agency proposing the acquisition, shall not exceed 30 days. If the
agency agrees to an extension, the agency and the Advisory Board shall mutually
agree upon a schedule to be set forth in writing and made available to the
public.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
NOTIFICATION
§ 152.115 RECORD NOTICE OF PROXIMITY TO VOLUNTARY AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Procedure. Upon certification of qualifying farmland and designation
of real property as a District, the title to that qualifying farmland and real
property, which is contained in the county’s Land Records System, shall be
changed to include a notice reasonably calculated to alert a person researching
the title of a particular tract that the tract is located within one aerial
mile of a voluntary agricultural district.
   (B) Posting of notice. The following notice, of a size and form suitable for
posting, shall be posted in the office of the Register of Deeds, and any other
office or agency the Advisory Board deems necessary:
 
“Harnett County has established agricultural districts to protect and preserve
agricultural lands and activities. These districts have been developed and
mapped by the county to inform all purchasers of real property that certain
agricultural and forestry activities, including but not limited to pesticide
spraying, manure spreading, machinery and truck operation, livestock operations,
sawing, and other common farming activities may occur in these districts any
time during the day or night. Maps and information on the location and
establishment of the districts can be obtained from the Harnett County
Geographic Information System (GIS) website, the Harnett Soil and Water
Conservation District office, the North Carolina Cooperative Extension office,
the office of the Register of Deeds, or the County Planning office.”
 
   (C)   Limit of liability. In no event shall the county or any of its
officers, employees, members of the Advisory Board, or agents be held liable in
damages for any misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance occurring in good
faith in connection with the duties or obligations imposed by this chapter.
   (D)   No cause of action. In no event shall any cause of action arise out of
the failure of a person researching the title of a particular tract to report
to any person the proximity of the tract to a qualifying farm or District as
defined in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2007; Ord. passed 4-16-2015)
§ 152.116 SIGNAGE.
   Signs identifying approved agricultural districts shall be placed along the
rights-of-way of major roads that pass through or next to those districts.
There shall be at least one sign posted per qualifying farm or as many as may
be deemed appropriate by the Advisory Board, or its administrative agent for
the county’s district program. Placement of signage shall be coordinated with
NCDOT.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
§ 152.117 MAPS.
   (A)   The Advisory Board will be responsible for notifying the county’s
Geographic Information System (GIS) Department for the development of maps.
   (B)   Maps identifying approved districts may be displayed at the following
agencies or offices:
      (1)   Planning Department;
      (2)   Register of Deeds;
      (3)   North Carolina Cooperative Extension Service;
      (4)   Soil and Water Conservation District; and
      (5)   Any other agency or office the Advisory Board deems appropriate.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
CHAPTER 153: UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Title
   
153.002   Purpose
   
153.003   Jurisdiction
   
153.004   Authority
   
153.005   Exemption of bona fide farms
   
153.006   Interpretation
   
153.007   Conflict with other laws or regulations
Definitions and Certifications
   
153.020   General guidelines
   
153.021   General definitions and acronyms
   
153.022   Airport height control definitions and acronyms
   
153.023   Communications tower definitions and acronyms
   
153.024   Natural resources definitions and acronyms
   
153.025   Certifications
   
153.026   Military Corridor Overlay District definitions and certifications
Nonconformities
   
153.040   General
   
153.041   Nonconforming lot of record
   
153.042   Nonconforming use
   
153.043   Nonconforming structures
   
153.044   Nonconforming signs
   
153.045   Nonconforming manufactured home parks
   
153.046   Nonconforming communications towers
   
153.047   Continuation of nonconforming situations
Development and Subdivision Review, Permitting, and Approval Requirements
   
153.060   Common review procedures
   
153.061   Permit requirements
   
153.062   General development review requirements
   
153.063   Site plan review requirements
   
153.064   Manufactured home park site plan review requirements
   
153.065   Sign site plan review requirements
   
153.066   Planned unit development and office and institutional development
plan review requirements
   
153.067   Subdivision review procedures
   
153.068   Street, alley, and walkway closings
   
153.069   Vested rights
Zoning and Overlay Districts
   
153.080   Establishment of districts
   
153.081   Zoning map
   
153.082   Industrial District – IND
   
153.083   Light Industrial – LI
   
153.084   Commercial – COMM
   
153.085   Office and Institutional – O&I
   
153.086   Residential/Agricultural District – RA-20M
   
153.087   Residential/Agricultural District – RA-20R
   
153.088   Residential/Agricultural District – RA-30
   
153.089   Residential/Agricultural District – RA-40
   
153.090   Conservation – CONS
   
153.091   Highway Corridor Overlay District – HCO
   
153.092   Military Corridor Overlay District – MCO
   
153.093   Dimensional requirements
Use Regulations
   
153.105   Use types and regulations
   
153.106   Use regulations
   
153.107   Residential uses
   
153.108   Accessory uses and structures
   
153.109   Agricultural and forestry uses
   
153.110   Educational and institutional uses
   
153.111   Commercial uses
   
153.112   Industrial uses
   
153.113   Utility uses
   
153.114   Temporary uses
   
153.115   Other uses
General Development Standards
   
153.130   General
   
153.131   Principal buildings per lot
   
153.132   Accessory structures
   
153.133   Access
   
153.134   Height limitation exceptions
   
153.135   Addressing and naming
   
153.136   Development phasing and numbering
   
153.137   Development agreements
   
153.138   Homeowners association
   
153.139   School bus stops within residential subdivisions
Development Design Guidelines
   
153.150   General
   
153.151   Street and transportation standards
   
153.152   Parking and off-street loading requirements
   
153.153   Sidewalk standards
   
153.154   Easements
   
153.155   Connection to utility services
   
153.156   Lighting standards
   
153.157   Open space
   
153.158   Buffers and landscaping
   
153.159   Sign requirements
   
153.160   Display area
   
153.161   Architectural design guidelines
   
153.162   Other improvement standards
   
153.163   Installation and maintenance of required improvements
   
153.164   Improvement guarantees
Historic Preservation
   
153.175   General
   
153.176   Historic landmarks
   
153.177   Historic districts
   
153.178   Certificate of appropriateness
Airport Height Control
   
153.190   General
   
153.191   Airport zones
   
153.192   Airport zone height limitations
   
153.193   Permits
Natural Resources
   
153.205   General
   
153.206   Standards for effluent and emissions
   
153.207   Soil erosion and sedimentation control
Stormwater Management
   
153.220   Purpose
   
153.221   Applicability
   
153.222   General
   
153.223   Predevelopment conference
   
153.224   Stormwater management statement
   
153.225   Stream buffers/setbacks
   
153.226   Stormwater control requirements
   
153.227   Operation and maintenance of stormwater control measure
   
153.228   Storm drainage
   
153.229   Construction plan/drawing
   
153.230   Stormwater certification
Flood Damage Prevention
   
153.245   Statutory authorization, findings of fact, purpose, and objectives
   
153.246   General provisions
   
153.247   Administration
   
153.248   Provisions for flood hazard reduction
Water Supply Watershed
   
153.260   Exceptions to applicability
   
153.261   Development regulations
   
153.262   Public health regulations
Administration and Boards
   
153.275   General
   
153.276   County Board of Commissioners
   
153.277   Planning Board
   
153.278   Development Review Board
   
153.279   Board of Adjustment
   
153.280   Watershed Review Board
   
153.281   Flood Damage Prevention Appeal Board
   
153.282   Historic Properties Commission
   
153.283   Planning Director and Planning Department staff
   
153.284   Other departments
   
153.285   Courts
Administrative Procedures
   
153.300   Amendments
   
153.301   Hearing and meeting procedures
   
153.302   Appeals
   
153.303   Variances
   
153.304   Judicial review
Enforcement
   
153.315   Administration and enforcement
   
153.316   Authority
   
153.317   Violations
   
153.318   Inspections and investigations
   
153.319   Notification
   
153.320   Remedies
   
153.321   Compliance period
   
153.322   Right of appeal
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 TITLE.
   Here within, this chapter may be referred to as “chapter” or “this chapter”.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.002 PURPOSE.
   The regulations as herein set forth have been made for the purpose of
promoting the health, safety, and general welfare of county residents,
specifically:
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish procedures and standards
for the development and subdivision of land which facilitates the creation of
functional neighborhoods where collective security, and community attributes
enhance the quality of life for the immediate residents, adjoining
neighborhoods, and the county as a whole;
   (B)   The design goals set forth in this chapter aim for orderly growth and
development of new neighborhoods;
   (C)   The coordination of streets within proposed neighborhoods with
existing or planned streets and with other public facilities;
   (D)   The general distribution of population and traffic in a manner that
will avoid congestion and overcrowding;
   (E)   The dedication or reservation of farmland, forests, natural areas,
parks, squares, and recreational open space areas, improved and accessible to
all residents of the neighborhood to serve as community focal points;
   (F)   Detailing of the public domain of streets, parks, and squares to
promote civic awareness and responsibility;
   (G)   Provide for pleasing visual environments to create conditions
essential to public health, safety, and the general welfare;
   (H)   The encouragement of the most appropriate use of land in the county;
and
   (I)   Protect the natural environment and other valuable resources.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.003 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the unincorporated areas of
the county. This chapter shall not be applied to the extra-territorial
jurisdiction or corporate limits of any municipality in the county. This
chapter shall be permanently kept on file in the office of the county’s
Planning Department.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.004 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter are adopted under authority of the
general statutes of the state, with particular reference to G.S. Chapter 160D.
   (B)   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and any other applicable regulations of local, state, or federal
governments.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.005 EXEMPTION OF BONA FIDE FARMS.
   (A)   The zoning provisions of this chapter shall not apply to bona fide
farms, as defined herein. This chapter does not exercise any controls over
cropland, timberland, or other farmlands, nor does it exercise control over any
barn or other farm buildings, including houses for persons working on farms and
their families, as long as the houses shall be in same ownership as the farm
and located on the farm and shall not exceed four residences. All buildings,
including residences, shall meet the following setbacks:
 
Distance of Structure from                               Required Distance
Front property line or street right-of-way (whichever is 35 ft.
greater)
Side property lines                                      10 ft.
Side property lines on corner lots                       20 ft.
Rear property line                                       25 ft.
Other structures                                         10 ft.
Structures less than 600 square feet from property line  5 ft.
 
   (B)   The use of any bona fide farm property for any non-farm purposes shall
be subject to the regulations of this chapter, with the exception of those uses
determined to be agritourism, as defined by this chapter. In no case shall
structures erected for non-farm purposes be exempt from the North Carolina
State Building Code or other applicable local, state, or federal regulations.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.006 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions
shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements; and
      (2)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
the state general statutes.
   (B)   In all references to other documents, including but not limited to
statutes, plans, and titled works, references shall be assumed to mean the most
current version of that document.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.007 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS OR REGULATIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to interfere with, abrogate, or annul any
easements, covenants, or other agreements between private parties. Wherever the
provisions of this chapter conflict with the provisions contained in any other
local, state, or federal regulation, the more restrictive provisions shall
govern.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
DEFINITIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS
§ 153.020 GENERAL GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Interpretation. Words and terms used in this document have their
commonly accepted, dictionary meaning unless specifically defined or the
context in which they are used in this document clearly indicates otherwise. In
the construction of this chapter, the definitions contained in this subchapter
shall be observed and applied, except when the content clearly indicates
otherwise.
   (B)   Meaning of common words. In further amplification and for clarity of
interpretation of the context, the following shall apply:
      (1)   All words used in the present tense include future tense.
      (2)   All words in the plural include the singular, and all words used in
the singular include the plural.
      (3)   All words used in the masculine gender include the feminine gender.
      (4)   The word “shall” is mandatory and not discretionary.
      (5)   The word “may” is permissive.
      (6)   The word “building” includes the words “structure”, and “structure
and any part thereof; and more specifically includes all structures of every
kind, regardless of similarity to buildings.
      (7)   The word “lot” includes the words “plot”, “parcel”, “tract”,
“piece”, and “site”.
      (8)   The word “person” includes the words “association”, “company”,
“corporation”, “firm”, “individual”, “organization”, and “partnership”.
      (9)   The word “county” shall mean the “County of Harnett”, or “Harnett
County, North Carolina”, the same being a creature of the General Assembly of
the State of North Carolina having the powers bestowed upon it by G.S. Chapter
160D.
      (10)   The words “Board of County Commissioners” or “County
Commissioners” shall mean the “Harnett County Board of Commissioners”.
      (11)   The words “chapter”, “ordinance”, and “regulations” shall mean the
“Unified Development Ordinance of Harnett County, North Carolina”.
      (12)   The words “Register of Deeds” shall mean the “Recorder of Deeds
for Harnett County, North Carolina”.
      (13)   The word “street” includes the words “road”, “highway”, “avenue”,
“boulevard”, “place”, “court”, and “circle”.
      (14)   The words “Development Review Board” or “DRB” shall mean the
Harnett County Development Review Board.
      (15)    The phrase “used for” shall include the phrases “arranged for”,
“designed for”, “intended for”, and “occupied for”.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.021 GENERAL DEFINITIONS AND ACRONYMS.
   (A)   General acronyms.
AMPI   Abandoned Manufactured-Home Planning Initiative
BOA    Board of Adjustment
BRAC   Base realignment and closure
CAMPO  Capitol Area Metropolitan Planning Organization
CC     County Commissioners
CO     Certificate of occupancy
COG    Council of Governments
CP     Central permitting
NCDENR North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources
DRB    Development Review Board
DWQ    Division of Water Quality
FAMPO  Fayetteville Area Metropolitan Planning Organization
HPC    Historic Properties Commission
HUD    U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
LUP    Land use plan
MOU    Memorandum of understanding
NCAC   North Carolina Administrative Code
NCDCR  North Carolina Department of Cultural Resources
NCDOT  North Carolina Department of Transportation
NCGS   North Carolina General Statutes
PB     Planning Board
PUD    Planned unit development
RLUAC  Regional Land Use Advisory Commission
RPO    Regional Planning Organization
UDO    Unified Development Ordinance
UL     Underwriters Laboratories
USACE  U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
USGS   United States Geological Survey
 
   (B)   General definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACCESS WAY. A way of approaching or entering a property across another
property to their parcel that has a width of not less than 20 feet that is
legally recorded in the Harnett County Register of Deeds. ACCESS WAY also
includes ingress, the right to enter, and egress, the right to leave.
      ADJACENT. Having property lines in common. Lots are also considered to be
abutting if they are directly opposite each other and separated by a public or
private right-of-way or easement. Also known as ABUTTING or ADJOINING.
      AGRICULTURE. The terms AGRICULTURE, AGRICULTURAL, and FARMING refer to
all of the following:
         (a)   The cultivation of soil for production and harvesting of crops,
including, but not limited to, fruits, vegetables, sod, flowers, and ornamental
plants;
         (b)   The planting and production of trees and timber;
         (c)   Dairying and the raising, management, care, and training of
livestock, including horses, bees, poultry, and other animals for individual
and public use, consumption, and marketing;
         (d)   Aquaculture as defined in G.S. § 106-758;
         (e)   The operation, management, conservation, improvement, and
maintenance of a farm and the structures and buildings on the farm, including
building and structure repair, replacement, expansion, and construction
incident to the farming operation;
         (f)   When performed on the farm, AGRICULTURE, AGRICULTURAL, and
FARMING also include the marketing and selling of agricultural products,
agritourism, the storage and use of materials for agricultural purposes,
packing, treating, processing, sorting, storage, and other activities performed
to add value to crops, livestock, and agricultural items produced on the farm,
and similar activities incident to the operation of a farm; and/or
         (g)   A public or private grain/crop warehouse or warehouse operation
where grain or crops are held ten days or longer and includes, but is not
limited to, all buildings, elevators, equipment, and warehouses consisting of
one or more warehouse sections and considered a single delivery point with the
capability to receive, load out, weigh, dry, and store grain or crops.
      AGRITOURISM. Any activity carried out on a farm or ranch that allows
members of the general public, for recreational, entertainment, or educational
purposes, to view or enjoy rural activities, including farming, ranching,
historic, cultural, harvest-your-own activities, or natural activities and
attractions. An activity is an AGRITOURISM activity whether or not the
participant paid to participate in the activity.
      AIRPORT. A place where aircraft can land and take off, usually equipped
with hangars, facilities for refueling and repair, and various accommodations
for passengers.
      ALLEY. A strip of land, publicly or privately owned, set aside primarily
for secondary vehicular service access to the back or side of properties whose
principal frontage is abutting a street right-of-way.
      APARTMENT. See MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT.
      APPLICANT. Any person, whether or not the property owner, who submits any
plans for review, or requests any administrative action, for approval under
this chapter. Also known as PETITIONER.
      ATHLETIC FIELDS, PRIVATE. Privately owned and operated facility that
provides outdoor recreational fields for sports including, but not limited to,
football, baseball, softball, and soccer.
      AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE (ATM). A stand-alone or attached automated
device that performs banking financial functions at a location that may be
separate from the controlling financial institution.
      AUTOMOBILE. A self-propelled, free-moving vehicle, typically with four
wheels, usually used to transport passengers and licensed by the appropriate
state agency for these purposes.
      AUTOMOBILE, ABANDONED. A motor vehicle which is left on private property,
specifically not located within the public right-of-way, without the consent of
the owner(s), occupant, or lessee of the property.
      AUTOMOBILE, JUNKED. A motor vehicle that is:
         (a)   Partially dismantled or wrecked;
         (b)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it was
originally intended to move; or
         (c)   Does not display a current license plate.
      AUTOMOBILE REPAIR FACILITY. Any building, land area, or other premises,
or portion thereof, used for servicing and repair of automobiles, and including
as an accessory use, but not limited to, the sale and installation of
lubricants, tires, batteries, and similar vehicle accessories.
      BAR/TAVERN. An establishment in which alcoholic beverages are served as a
primary source of income, alcoholic beverages are sold primarily by the drink,
and where food or packaged liquors may also be served or sold as deemed under
the Alcoholic Beverage Control Law in G.S. § 18B-1000.
      BASE FLOOD. See §
153.024.
      BED AND BREAKFAST RESIDENCE. A business in a private home of not more
than eight guest rooms that offers bed and breakfast accommodations for a
period of less than one week and that meets all of the following criteria:
         (a)   Does not serve food or drink to the general public for pay;
         (b)   Serves the breakfast meal, the lunch meal, the dinner meal, or a
combination of all or some of these three meals, only to overnight guests of
the home;
         (c)   Includes the price of any meals served in the room rate; and
         (d)   Is the permanent residence of the owner or the manager of the
business.
      BERM. A mound of earth with a minimum slope of 3:1 intended for
landscaping or buffering purposes.
      BILLBOARD. See SIGN, OUTDOOR ADVERTISING.
      BLOCK. A tract of land, lot, or group of lots typically bounded by street
right(s)-of-way.
      BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. The Harnett County Board of Adjustment. See §
153.279.
      BOARDING HOUSE. A private residence where guests are provided meals and
lodging, typically for a fee.
      BOARDING STABLE. A structure designed for the feeding, housing, and
exercising of horses, all of which may not be owned by the owner(s) of the
premises, and for which the owner(s) of the premises may receive compensation.
      BONA FIDE FARM. Except as provided in G.S. § 106-743.4 for farms that are
subject to a conservation agreement under G.S. § 106-743.2, BONA FIDE FARM
purposes include the production and activities relating or incidental to the
production of crops, fruits, vegetables, ornamental and flowering plants,
dairy, livestock, poultry, and all other forms of agriculture as defined in
G.S. § 106-581.1. For purposes of this chapter, the production of a nonfarm
product that the Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services recognizes as
a “Goodness Grows in North Carolina” product that is produced on a farm subject
to a conservation agreement under G.S. § 106-743.2 is a BONA FIDE FARM purpose.
For purposes of determining whether a property is being used for BONA FIDE FARM
purposes, any of the following shall constitute sufficient evidence that the
property is being used for BONA FIDE FARM purposes:
         (a)   A farm sales tax exemption certificate issued by the Department
of Revenue;
         (b)   A copy of the property tax listing showing that the property is
eligible for participation in the present use value program pursuant to G.S. §
105-277.3;
         (c)   A copy of the farm owner’s or operator’s Schedule F from the
owner’s or operator’s most recent federal income tax return;
         (d)   A forest management plan; or
         (e)   A farm identification number issued by the United States
Department of Agriculture Farm Service Agency.
      BUFFER. A landscaped area, as required by this chapter, or solid fence or
wall used to enclose, screen, or separate certain uses, as specified in this
chapter. The design, composition, height, and location of these facilities
shall be approved prior to installation.
      BUFFER STRIP. A strip of land to be used for planting and/or open area,
the purpose of which is to provide the minimum required separation of different
uses of property or a naturally existing wooded area of sufficient width and
density to provide a visual screen.
      BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
      BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the principal use
of the plot on which it is situated.
      BUILT-UPON AREA. Built-upon area shall include that portion of a
development project that is covered by impervious or partially impervious cover
including buildings, pavement, gravel, streets, recreation facilities (e.g.,
tennis courts), and the like, but not including wooden slatted decks or
swimming pools.
      BUSINESS SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. A facility primarily engaged in rendering
services to business establishments on a fee or contract basis, including, but
not limited to, advertising and mailing, building maintenance, employment
services, consulting services, protective services, equipment rental and
leasing, commercial research and development, and personal supply services.
      CAPACITY FEE. Requirement of the developer to dedicate or pay for all or
a portion of land or costs of public facilities as a condition of development
approval.
      CAR WASH. Any building or premises used for washing motor vehicles,
either performed by employees or by vehicle operators, and related accessory
uses.
      CARPORT. Prefabricated, roofed structure without any foundation,
footings, enclosed walls, or sides, providing space for the parking of motor
vehicles. When attached to a residential structure, a CARPORT is considered
part of the residential structure.
      CEMETERY, COMMERCIAL USE. Property used for the interment of the dead,
generally with more than ten burial plots, and intended for commercial
purposes.
      CEMETERY, PRIVATE USE. Property used for the interment of the dead with
ten or fewer burial plots. Also referred to as a FAMILY BURIAL PLOT.
      CERTIFIED LOCAL GOVERNMENT (CLG). Programs are approved by the U.S.
Department of the Interior in cooperation with the North Carolina Department of
Cultural Resources through the State Historic Preservation Officer as having
met the requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 as
amended in 1980, being 54 U.S.C. §§ 300101 et seq.
      CHILDCARE FACILITY. See DAYCARE FACILITY.
      CIVIC CENTER. A building or complex of buildings that houses government
offices and services (or is sanctioned by the government) and that may include
cultural, recreational, athletic, convention, and entertainment facilities.
      CIVIL PENALTY. A monetary penalty assessed by the county for violation of
this chapter and is treated as a debt owed to the county but is not a fine.
CIVIL PENALTIES are generally imposed by means or in the form of a civil
citation.
      CLUB OR LODGE, PRIVATE. A non-profit association of persons, who are bona
fide members paying dues, which owns, hires, or leases a building, or portion
thereof; the use of these premises being restricted to members and their
guests. The affairs and management of the PRIVATE CLUB OR LODGE are conducted
by a board of directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen by the
members.
      COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY. An educational institution authorized by the state
to award associate, baccalaureate, or higher degrees. See SCHOOL.
      COMMON AREAS. See OPEN SPACE.
      COMMUNITY CENTER. A facility used for recreational, social, educational,
and cultural activities, either privately or publicly owned.
      COMPREHENSIVE TRANSPORTATION PLAN. This plan serves to address present
and anticipated multi-modal transportation needs within the county, including
roadway, bicycle, pedestrian, and transit transportation needs. The plan
provides for land reservation for future transportation corridors and helps
guide decisions on setbacks and transportation improvements as development
occurs today and into the future, and includes recommendations on roadway
improvements, and bicycle and pedestrian and other facilities.
      CONCEPTUAL PLAN. Requirement that development applications demonstrate
that adequate public facilities be made available at prescribed levels of
service concurrent with the impact or occupancy of development units.
      CONDITIONS. Requirements to be met prior to subsequent action, typically
required as part of approval by a board.
      CONSTRUCTION. Erection, alteration, excavation, demolition, or similar
work on any development authorized by permits.
      CONTINUING CARE RETIREMENT COMMUNITY (CCRC)/FACILITY. An age-restricted
development that provides a continuum of accommodations and care ranging from
independent living to long-term bed care and enters into contracts to provide
lifelong care in exchange for the payment of monthly fees and often an entrance
fee in excess of one year of monthly fees.
      CONVENIENCE STORE. A retail establishment of up to 5,000 square feet
selling primarily food products, household items, newspapers and magazines,
candy, beverages, a limited amount of freshly prepared foods such as sandwiches
and salads for on or off-premises consumption, and which may be used for the
retail dispensing or sales of vehicular fuels. CONVENIENCE BUSINESS
ESTABLISHMENTS shall not be construed to encompass retail sales not geared
toward neighborhood convenience.
      COVENANTS. Private land use controls that are attached to a deed and are
not regulated or enforced by the county.
      CREMATORIUM. An establishment containing a furnace used for reducing a
body to ashes by burning.
      CRITICAL AREA. See CRITICAL AREA definition in §
153.024.
      CUSTOMARY HOME OCCUPATION. Any use, whether intended to produce income or
not, conducted entirely within a dwelling and carried on by the occupants
thereof, whose use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling for residential purposes and does not change the character thereof.
      DAYCARE FACILITY. An establishment providing for the care, supervision,
and protection of facility clients, by person(s) other than the guardians or
full-time custodians of the client(s), or from persons not related to them by
birth, marriage, or adoption on a regular basis of at least once per week.
         (a)   DAYCARE FACILITY, ADULT DAYCARE. A facility providing care for
the elderly and/or functionally impaired adults in a protective setting for
part of a 24-hour day.
         (b)   DAYCARE FACILITY, CHILDCARE FACILITY. A childcare arrangement,
not in a residence, where, at any one time, there are three or more pre-school-
age children or nine or more school-aged children receiving care.
         (c)   DAYCARE FACILITY, IN-HOME CHILDCARE. A childcare arrangement
located in a residence where, at any one time, there are between three and
eight children receiving care.
      DEDICATION. The object or the act of an owner(s) offering property or
property rights to the public without any considerations being given for the
transfer. Since a transfer of property rights is involved, DEDICATIONS shall be
written recordable instruments.
      DEVELOPER. The owner(s), or his or her representative, of land proposed
to be developed or subdivided. Consent shall be required from the legal owner
of the premises.
      DEVELOPMENT PLAN. See PHASED DEVELOPMENT PLAN and SITE PLAN (SITE
SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN).
      DEVELOPMENT REVIEW BOARD. Herein, the Harnett County Development Review
Board. See §
153.278.
      DISPLAY AREA. The area used for display of merchandise or goods available
for purchase from the business located outside of a building. This use shall be
allowable only as an accessory to the primary use of the establishment.
      DISTRIBUTION CENTER. An establishment engaged in the receipt, storage,
and distribution of goods, products, cargo, and materials including
transshipment by boat, rail, air, or motor vehicle.
      DRAINAGE EASEMENT. 
         (a)   A recorded easement that remains undisturbed except as may be
necessary to accommodate:
            1.   Streets, provided they cross at a horizontal angle at least 60
degrees;
            2.   Utilities and their easements; and/or
            3.   Greenways, pedestrian paths, and their easements.
         (b)   DRAINAGE EASEMENTS are measured perpendicular to the flow of the
drainageway banks, except when no drainageway banks exist, in which case, the
centerline of the drainage swale is used.
      DRAINAGEWAY. Any stream, watercourse, channel, ditch, or similar
physiographic feature draining water from the land.
      DRIPLINE. An imaginary ground line around a tree that defines the limits
of the tree canopy.
      DRIVEWAY. An access point that serves for ingress and egress from a
public or private right-of-way or easement, most commonly used for vehicles.
      DWELLING. A building that contains one- or two-family dwelling units,
intended or designed to be used, rented, leased, let or hired out to be
occupied for living purposes. See MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT and
SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING.
         (a)   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building containing one dwelling unit
and that is not attached to any other dwelling by any means and is surrounded
by open space or yards.
         (b)   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent
living facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for
living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
      E-911 ADDRESS. A physical address assigned by the E-911 Addressing
Department for a structure or parcel of land.
      EASEMENT. The right to use another person’s property, but only for a
limited and specifically named purpose. The owner generally continues, but not
including encroachments at the location of the easement, to make use of such
land since he or she has given up only certain, and not all, ownership rights.
An EASEMENT is typically a strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by
a street, crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line, oil or gas
pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, or for another special use.
      EASEMENT, ACCESS. A legally recorded, both by plat and deed, right of
approach to physical entrance to a property, by vehicle or other means and
specifically not dedicated to NCDOT.
      EDUCATIONAL SERVICES. A college, university, or trade school authorized
by the state to award degrees. University and college uses and ancillary uses
typically associated with a university or college that are customary and
subordinate to the primary educational function of that university or college
use, including dormitories, stadium, enclosed arenas, auditoriums, and museums.
Typical ancillary uses may also include uses with a direct relationship to a
university academic use, such as university medical center uses, including
teaching hospitals, medical schools, nursing schools, biomedical research
facilities, and support space. Limited commercial uses, such as university-
related bookstores, childcare facilities, and dining facilities located within
other buildings shall be permitted to the extent that they are designed to
serve on-campus population of the university and not to attract additional
traffic to the campus.
      ENTERTAINMENT AND DANCE VENUE. An establishment that is either public or
private in which people gather for dancing and/or listening to recorded or live
entertainment and/or music, and which may include the sale and consumption of
alcoholic beverages on premises.
      ENTRANCE. An access point or driveway that serves for ingress and egress
to a site or development. When included as part of a subdivision, each entrance
or driveway onto a state right-of-way, whether for an individual property or
for the entire development, shall be considered an ENTRANCE to the subdivision.
      ETHANOL DIESEL OR BIOFUEL. A renewable fuel manufactured from methanol
and vegetable oil, animal fats, and recycled cooking fats, that comes in
various forms, including B100 and B20.
      EVIDENTIARY HEARING. The formal hearing required to gather evidence prior
to making a quasi-judicial zoning decision. All of the essential elements of a
fair trial shall be observed, such as having witnesses under oath and subject
to cross-examination, no gathering of evidence outside the hearing, written
findings of fact, and substantial, competent, and material evidence in the
record to support the findings. These meetings are held open to the public, for
the purpose of providing and gaining information to and from the public, that
may or may not have a bearing on the decision of the Board of Adjustment, and
required by the state general statutes.
      EXTERIOR FEATURES. The architectural style, general design, and general
arrangement of the exterior of a building or other structure, including the
kind and texture of the building material, the size and scale of the building
or other structure, and the type and style of all windows, doors, light
fixtures, signs, and other appurtenant fixtures.
      FAMILY CARE HOME. A home with support and supervisory personnel that
provides room and board, personal care, and rehabilitation services in a family
environment for not more than six resident handicapped persons.
      FENCE. A barrier constructed of material or a combination of materials,
and erected to enclose, screen, or separate areas. Where applicable, the
materials shall be limited to: chain link; wrought iron; wood; stucco; brick;
stone; and/or vinyl.
      FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. An establishment such as banks, credit agencies,
investment companies, brokers of and dealers in securities and commodities, and
security and commodity exchanges.
      FLEA MARKETS, RUMMAGE, SECONDHAND SALES, AND ACTIVITIES, INDOOR. Indoor
sales area in which typically more than one space is set aside or rented, and
is intended for use to sell a variety of articles such as those which are
either homemade, hand-crafted, new, used, old, or obsolete.
      FLEA MARKETS, RUMMAGE, SECONDHAND SALES, AND ACTIVITIES, OUTDOOR.
Outdoors sales area in which typically more than one space is set aside or
rented, and is intended for use to sell a variety of articles such as those
which are either homemade, hand-crafted, new, used, old, or obsolete.
      FREIGHT HANDLING. The use of a facility or terminal with the capability
of handling a large variety of goods, sometimes involving various forms of
transportation and may provide multimodal shipping capabilities, including but
not limited to rail to truck transfer.
      FUNERAL HOME. A building used for the preparation of the deceased for
burial and viewing of the deceased and rituals connected therewith burial or
cremation.
      GRAVEYARD. See CEMETERY, COMMERCIAL USE and CEMETERY, PRIVATE USE.
      GROCERY STORE. A retail establishment primarily selling food as well as
other convenience and household goods.
      HABITABLE. A space in a building for living purposes, which includes
working, sleeping, eating, or cooking. Bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls,
storage, or utility spaces and similar areas are not considered HABITABLE
space.
      HEALTH AND TRAINING CENTER (INDOOR AND OUTDOOR). An establishment that
provides facilities for aerobic exercises, running and jogging, exercise
equipment, game courts, swimming facilities, saunas, showers, massage rooms,
and lockers. Health and training centers may also include facilities to assess
individual’s nutritional and fitness levels, instructs them on the proper way
to perform exercises, conducts individual and/or small group training at
designated times, and advises individuals on their dietary needs. The
establishments are usually open only to members and their guests.
      HEALTH CARE SERVICE. An establishment providing support to hospitals and
medical professionals and their patients, such as medical and dental clinics
and laboratories, blood banks, oxygen, and miscellaneous types of medical
supplies and services.
      HOMELESS SHELTER. A facility providing temporary housing to indigent,
needy, or homeless persons.
      HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION (PROPERTY OWNERS ASSOCIATION). Legal entities that
are responsible for the maintenance and control of common areas, and may
include regulations within the development, shall be established in a manner
that:
         (a)   Provision for the establishment of the association or similar
entity is made before any lot in the development is sold or any building
occupied;
         (b)   The association or similar legal entity has clear legal
authority to maintain and exercise control over common areas and facilities;
and
         (c)   The association or similar legal entity has the power to compel
contributions from property owners within the development to cover their
proportionate shares of the costs associated with the maintenance and upkeep of
common areas and facilities.
      HOSPITAL. One or more buildings or structures located on the same lot or
campus, primarily devoted to the rendering of health, medical, and nursing care
to persons on an in-patient basis, and which provide facilities and services of
a scope and type customarily provided by hospitals, including facilities for
intensive care, self-care, out-patient facilities, clinical, pathological and
other laboratories, laundries, training facilities for nurses, interns,
physicians and other staff members, food preparation and food service
facilities, administration buildings, administrative facilities, medical office
facilities owned and operated by the hospital for physicians who are members of
the hospital medical staff, and other general hospital facilities.
      HOTEL/MOTEL. An establishment which is open to transient guests, as
distinguished from a boarding, rooming, or lodging house, and is commonly known
as a hotel in the community in which it is located; and which provides
customary hotel services such as maid service, the furnishing and laundering of
linen, telephone and secretarial or desk service, the use and upkeep of
furniture, and bellboy service.
      IMPACT FEE. A fee imposed on new development by the county pursuant to
this chapter in order to mitigate the impacts on community facilities created
by the demand for capital improvements by the new development. IMPACT FEES do
not include the dedication of rights-of-way or easements for the facilities, or
the construction of other required improvements.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. A surface that has been compacted or covered with a
layer of material so that it is highly resistant to infiltration by water.
      INCOMPATIBLE USE. A use or service which is unsuitable for direct
association and/or contiguity with certain other uses because it is
contradictory, incongruous, or discordant.
      INDUSTRIAL PARK. A special or exclusive type of planned industrial area
designed and equipped to accommodate a community of industries providing them
with all necessary facilities and services in attractive surroundings among
compatible neighbors. INDUSTRIAL PARKS may be promoted or sponsored by private
developers, community organizations, or government organizations.
      JUNK. Scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber,
debris, waste, or junked, dismantled, or wrecked automobiles, or parts thereof,
iron, steel, or other scrap ferrous or nonferrous material and dismantled or
used white goods or parts thereof.
      JUNKYARD. An establishment or place of business, or portion of a
property, which is maintained, operated, or used for storing, keeping, buying,
or selling junk, or for maintenance or operation of an automobile graveyard.
Any lot containing more than three unregistered and non-functional vehicles
shall constitute a JUNKYARD for the purposes of this chapter.
      JUNKYARD, NONCONFORMING. An establishment or place of business, or
portion of a property, fitting the definition of a “junkyard”, where the use
for which was established prior to zoning in the same location. NONCONFORMING
JUNKYARDS are typically identified as such using best available information to
determine the intensity of the junkyard itself at the current time as well as
at the time of adoption of zoning at the location.
      KENNEL. An establishment in which dogs or domesticated animals are
housed, groomed, bred, boarded, trained, or sold, all for a fee or compensation
for purposes not primarily related to medical care.
      KENNEL, PRIVATE ACCESSORY. An establishment in which dogs or domesticated
animals are housed, groomed, bred, or trained, typically for personal use, not
related to the primary use of the property, and where the animals are not
primarily held for the purposes of sale or other profit.
      LAND CLEARING AND INERT DEBRIS (LCID) LANDFILL. A lot, parcel, area, or
facility for the land disposal of land clearing waste, concrete, brick,
concrete block, uncontaminated soil, gravel and rock, untreated and unpainted
wood, and yard trash by burying and covering with soil. This definition does
not include the placing of any land clearing or inert debris on a lot, plot, or
parcel that was generated on, or came from the property on which it was placed,
by the owner of the property. See LAND CLEARING WASTE and YARD TRASH.
      LAND CLEARING WASTE. Solid waste that is generated solely from land
clearing activities such as stumps, trees, limbs, brush, grass, and other
naturally occurring vegetative material.
      LANDOWNER. Any owner(s) of a legal or equitable interest in real
property, including the heirs, devisees, successors, assigns, and personal
representative of the owner.
      LEARNING CENTER. A facility used for educational purposes, including
tutoring and administration of standardized testing, that occurs entirely
indoors.
      LIVE/WORK DEVELOPMENT. A building or group of buildings containing two or
more distinct uses, with each building including a combination of residential
and office, financial, and/or retail uses.
      LOT. A parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by a main building, or
group of main buildings, and any accessory buildings, together with the yards,
open spaces, lot width, and lot area as are required by this chapter.
         (a)   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting two or more public or private right
(s)-of-way or easement(s) at the intersection of such.
         (b)   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A contiguous (through) lot that is
accessible from both streets upon which it fronts. Also known as THROUGH LOT
and REVERSE FRONTAGE LOT.
         (c)   LOT, FLAG. A lot that, in its shape, resembles a flag on a pole
where the “flag” part is the main body of the lot and the “pole” part is the
narrow portion of the lot that provides access from the street or easement.
         (d)   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on
only one street.
         (e)   LOT, SINGLE-TIER. A lot that backs upon a limited access
highway, a railroad, a physical barrier, or another type of land use and to
which access from the rear is usually prohibited.
      LOT AREA. The total horizontal area included within lot lines.
      LOT AREA (USEABLE). Lot area suitable for septic fields. The area within
the lot lines that is a contiguous area suitable for a septic field, well,
house, and access. This area does not include areas such as public right(s)-of-
way, land on the opposite side of a public right-of-way from the location of
the house site, or land within the flood hazard area.
      LOT BOUNDARY LINE. A line that divides one lot from another or from a
right-of-way or easement.
      LOT DEPTH. The average horizontal distance between front and rear lot
lines.
      LOT FRONTAGE. The side of a lot abutting on a street or easement. Also
referred to as the FRONT LOT LINE.
      LOT IMPROVEMENT. Physical changes made to raw land and structures on or
under the land surface in order to make the land more useable for human
activity. Typical improvements in these regulations include, but shall not be
limited to, grading, street pavement, drainage ditches, and street name signs.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is a part of a subdivision, a plat of which
has been recorded in the office of the Harnett County Register of Deeds, or,
prior to April 4, 1977, a lot described by metes and bounds, and description of
which has been recorded in the office of the Harnett County Register of Deeds
by the owner or predecessor in title thereto.
      LOT WIDTH. The average horizontal distance between the side property
lines.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A home that:
         (a)   Consists of a single unit completely assembled at the factory or
of two (double-wide) or three (triple-wide) principal components totally
assembled at the factory and joined together at the site;
         (b)   Is designed so that the total structure (or in the case of
double-wide or triple-wide, each component thereof) can be transported on its
own chassis;
         (c)   Is over 32 feet long and over eight feet wide;
         (d)   Is designed to be used as a dwelling and provides complete,
independent living facilities for one family, including permanent provisions
for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation;
         (e)   Is actually being used, or is held ready to use, as a dwelling;
and
         (f)   Meets or exceeds the construction standards adopted by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of
construction.
      MANUFACTURED HOME, ABANDONED. An abandoned manufactured home or mobile
classroom that is:
         (a)   Not being occupied as a dwelling and does not provide complete,
independent living facilities for one family, including permanent provisions
for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation or a manufactured home
that has not received the proper permits to be located within the county’s
jurisdiction;
         (b)   A structure which is a manufactured/mobile home which is a
health or safety hazard as a result of the attraction of insects or rodents,
conditions creating a fire hazard, dangerous condition constituting a threat to
children, or frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the absence of
sanitary facilities; or
         (c)   Any structure, which is a manufactured/mobile home that was
designed and intended for residential or other uses, which has been vacant or
not in active use, regardless of purpose or reason, for the past two year
period, and has been deemed a nuisance due to public safety or public
appearance by the Harnett County Planning Department or Harnett County
Department of Public Health.
      MANUFACTURED HOME LOT. A manufactured home lot is a piece of land within
a manufactured home park whose boundaries are delineated in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter, and that is designed and improved in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter to accommodate a single manufactured
home.
      MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A manufactured home park is a parcel of land,
adjoining parcels of land, or a group of lots within 500 feet of each other in
single/same ownership designed to provide three or more manufactured homes or
spaces, or any combination of homes and spaces. One lot, solely established for
the primary residence of the park owner(s), may be established on a parcel
adjacent to a permitted manufactured home park.
      MANUFACTURED HOME, A-PITCHED ROOF. A roof that is designed to have a
ridge or peak at the center of the structure and where the primary roof
structure is generally made up of two angled pieces which meet in the middle
forming a degree of slope or pitch to the roof. See picture example below.
      MANUFACTURED HOME, ROUNDED OR ROLLED ROOF. A roof that is designed to
cover a structure without the presence of a ridge or peak and are generally
covered by materials that are connected in a vertical manner and do not
intersect at the center of the structure. See picture example below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/30f7820eea5cd7ea02f3978cb658a054226f91aa/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1542.png]
      MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE. See MANUFACTURED HOME LOT.
      MANUFACTURING, GENERAL. The use of an establishment in the mechanical or
chemical transformation of materials or substances into new products, in the
course of any trade or business other than agriculture, such as creation of
products, assembly and blending of materials, manufacturing of large items, and
processing. The establishments may include hazardous operations and the use of
combustible materials. Materials utilized in these establishments include, but
are not limited to, oils, plastics, resins, or liquors.
      MANUFACTURING, LIGHT. The use of an establishment in assembly,
processing, packaging, or finishing activities, in the course of any trade or
business other than agriculture, that are carried on without an unreasonable
detrimental effect of noise, vibration, smell, fumes, smoke, ash, or dust onto
the surrounding community. This is intended to function as a transitional use
between the more intense general manufacturing and industrial uses and other
less intense uses. Uses related to research and development, including
laboratories and other facilities for basic or applied research and
development, pilot plants, prototype production facilities, manufacturing uses
with a high degree of scientific input, and facilities for organizations or
associations that promote research. This includes the fields of biology,
chemistry, electronics, engineering, geology, medicine, and physics.
      MASSAGE AND BODYWORK THERAPIST. A person who holds a valid license issued
by the North Carolina Board of Massage and Bodywork Therapy to engage in the
practice of massage and bodywork therapy.
      MASSAGE AND BODYWORK THERAPY PRACTICE, LICENSED. The application of
massage and bodywork therapy to any person for a fee or other consideration.
Practice of massage and bodywork therapy does not include the diagnosis of
illness or disease, medical procedures, chiropractic adjustment procedures,
electrical stimulation, ultrasound, prescription of medicines, or the use of
modalities for which a license to practice medicine, chiropractic, nursing,
physical therapy, occupational therapy, acupuncture, or podiatry is required by
law.
      MASSAGE AND BODYWORK THERAPY PRACTICE, UNLICENSED. A place of business
where a massage is offered for a salary or fee, and which is not licensed by
the North Carolina Board of Massage and Bodywork Therapy.
      MAUSOLEUM. See CEMETERY, PRIVATE USE and CEMETERY, COMMERCIAL USE.
      MINING. The extraction of minerals, including solids, liquids, and gases
and/or the excavating and removing material from the surface and/or subsurface.
      MINOR WORKS. Those exterior changes that do not involve substantial
alterations, additions, or removals that could impair the integrity of the
property and/or district as a whole. Used in reference to historic properties
and districts.
      MODULAR HOME. A manufactured building designed to be used as a single-
family dwelling unit which has been constructed and labeled indicating
compliance with the North Carolina State Building Code for residential
structures.
      MODULAR UNIT. A manufactured building designed to be used for
nonresidential purposes, which has been constructed and labeled indicating
compliance with the North Carolina State Building Code. This should include
modular class rooms, construction offices, and the like.
      MONUMENTS. Markers placed on or in the land to identify property corners
and other notable features. Metal pins not less than three-fourths of an inch
in diameter and 18 inches long or concrete monuments four inches in diameter or
square and three feet long.
      MORTUARY. A place for the storage of human bodies prior to autopsy,
burial, or release to survivors.
      MOTEL. An establishment which is open to transient guests, as
distinguished from a boarding, rooming, or lodging house.
      MOTOR HOME. See RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Includes any machine designed or intended to travel over
land or water by self-propulsion or while attached to a self-propelled vehicle.
      MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. A building or development containing
two or more dwelling units, including units that are located over one another
in one or more buildings on the same lot, or attached or detached units on
separate lots at densities permitted by this chapter.
         (a)   MULTIFAMILY, CONDOMINIUM DEVELOPMENT. A building or group of
buildings in which dwelling units are owned individually and the structure,
common areas, and facilities are owned by all owners on a proportional,
undivided basis and meets the requirements of the state’s Unit Ownership Act as
specified in G.S. §§ 47A-1 et seq.
         (b)   MULTIFAMILY, DUPLEX DEVELOPMENT. A development consisting of
more than one duplex, as defined herein, created as a single project.
         (c)   MULTIFAMILY, TOWNHOME. An attached single-family dwelling on a
fee-simple lot meeting the minimum front and rear yard setback requirements,
fronting on a dedicated street, and sharing a common side(s) with adjoining
units within a townhome complex.
         (d)   MULTIFAMILY, TWO-FAMILY DWELLING (DUPLEX). A residential use
consisting of two dwelling units within a single building on a single lot. Also
commonly referred to as a TWO-FAMILY DWELLING.
      NEO-TRADITIONAL DESIGN. An approach to land use planning and urban design
that promotes the building of pedestrian friendly neighborhoods with a mix of
uses, housing types and costs, lot sizes and density, architectural variety, a
central meeting place, and defined development edges.
      NONCONFORMING LOT OF RECORD. A lot described by a plat or a deed that was
recorded prior to adoption of zoning at the location of the lot and does not
meet the minimum lot size or other development requirements of this chapter.
      NONCONFORMING SIGN. Any sign that does not meet the requirements of this
chapter.
      NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. A structure or building, the size, dimensions,
or location of which was lawful prior to the adoption of zoning at the location
of the lot and does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
      NONCONFORMING USE. A legal use of a building and/or land that began prior
to adoption of zoning at the location of the lot and does not conform to the
regulations of this chapter.
      NURSERY. The agricultural production or growth, storage, and sales of
garden plants, flowers, trees, shrubs, and similar products that are grown on-
site, as well as the sale of fertilizer, mulch, and other related materials,
garden tools, and similar accessory and ancillary products, to the general
public. This use shall not include those nurseries that are classified as a
bona fide farm, as defined herein.
      NURSERY, RETAIL. The storage and sale of garden plants, flowers, trees,
shrubs, and similar products that are not grown on-site; as well as the sale of
fertilizer, mulch, and other related materials, garden tools, and similar
accessory and ancillary products, to the general public.
      NURSING HOME. See CONTINUING CARE RETIREMENT COMMUNITY (CCRC)/FACILITY.
      OFFICE. A room or group of rooms used for conducting the affairs of a
business, profession, service, industry, or government and generally furnished
with desks, tables, files, and communication equipment.
      OPEN SPACE. An area of land or water designed and intended for public or
private use. This area is typically left in its natural or undisturbed state if
wooded, except for the cutting of trails for walking or jogging, or, if not
wooded at the time of development, is landscaped for ball fields, picnic areas,
or similar facilities.
         (a)   OPEN SPACE, COMMON. Land within or related to a development, not
individually owned or dedicated for public use, that is designed and intended
for the common use or enjoyment of the residents of the development and their
guests and that may include complementary structures and improvements as are
necessary and appropriate.
         (b)   OPEN SPACE, GREENWAY. A linear park network left in its natural
state except for the introduction of trails used by pedestrians and bicyclists.
         (c)   OPEN SPACE, IMPROVED. A type of open space wherein the land is
not left in its natural state, but is developed, to varying degrees, for the
enhanced enjoyment of the community, including, but not limited to, golf
courses, swimming pools, miniparks, and sheltered picnic areas.
         (d)   OPEN SPACE, MINIPARK. A type of open space, typically between
2,000 and 30,000 square feet in size, intended to serve the immediate
surrounding neighborhood within a development, including, but not limited to,
tennis courts, tot lots, and clubhouses.
         (e)   OPEN SPACE, PRESERVE. Open space that preserves or protects
endangered species, critical environmental features, viewsheds, or other
natural elements including, but not limited to, nature, wildlife, and forests,
and is specifically intended for preservation of native species.
         (f)   OPEN SPACE, RECREATION AREA. An area of land and/or water
resources that is developed for active recreation pursuits with various human-
made features that accommodate these activities. Also referred to as PARK.
         (g)   OPEN SPACE, RECREATIONAL. A type of improved open space where
organized activities requiring equipment that are often performed with others
including, but not limited to, basketball courts, swimming facilities, and
tennis courts are commenced.
         (h)   OPEN SPACE, UNIMPROVED. An area of land and/or water that is set
aside for permanent preservation and left in its natural, undeveloped state.
         (i)   OPEN SPACE, USABLE. Any area that:
            1.   Is not encumbered with any substantial structure;
            2.   Is not devoted to use as a roadway, parking area (paved or
peripheral), or sidewalk;
            3.   Is left in its natural or undisturbed state, if such a state
is compatible with use of the area or property planted and landscaped;
(Facilities for the pursuit of passive types of recreation, such as picnic
tables, are permissible.)
            4.   Is capable of being used and enjoyed for purposes of informal
and unstructured recreation and relaxation; and
            5.   Is legally and practicably accessible to the residents of the
development out of which the required open space is taken, or to the public if
dedication of the open space is required.
      OUTDOOR ENTERTAINMENT VENUE. A location where the primary purpose is for
the display, presentation or performance of musicals, concerts, or other live
stage entertainment.
      OUTDOOR STORAGE. The keeping of any inventory, goods, material, or
merchandise, including raw, semi-finished, and finished materials for any
period of time, and as an accessory to the primary use of the establishment,
typically retail. Storage related to a residential use, required vehicular
parking areas, nurseries, and the display of automobiles or other vehicles
shall not be considered OUTDOOR STORAGE.
      PAVE. To cover with concrete, asphalt, brick, stone slabs, or blocks
(such as cobblestones), or other manufactured products (such as concrete
blocks) having the characteristics of concrete, asphalt, brick, or stone.
      PAVEMENT. A created surface, typically asphalt but also concrete, brick,
or stone, placed on the land to facilitate ingress and egress.
      PERSON. Any individual or group of individuals, or any corporation,
general, or limited partnership, joint venture, unincorporated association, or
governmental or quasi-governmental entity.
      PERSONAL SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. A facility primarily engaged in providing
services involving the care of a person or personal goods or apparel,
including, but not limited to, a laundromat, beautician, plumber, carpenter,
electrician, or other trade establishment.
      PERVIOUS SURFACE. Any material that permits full or partial absorption of
stormwater into previously unimproved land, or as otherwise determined by the
state.
      PHASE. Sections of development on an approved site-specific plan,
including detailed information pertaining to both the overall site and proposed
division within the development, typically for a subdivision or planned unit
development, as identified on an approved plan. For purposes of this chapter,
the words SECTION, PHASE, and SUB-PHASE shall be considered the same.
      PHASED DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A plan which has been submitted to the county by
a landowner for phased development which shows the type and intensity of use
for specific parcel(s) with a lesser degree of certainty than the plan
determined by the county to be a site specific development plan.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A development constructed on a tract of at
least ten acres under single, corporation, firm, partnership, or association
ownership planned and developed as an integral unit, and consisting of a
combination of principal uses that could be combined only in a planned unit
development.
      PLAT. A map or plan of a tract or parcel of land that is to be, or that
has been, subdivided.
      POD. Sections of proposed development types, including limited detail
such as use, type, density, and a general layout of the transportation network,
most often found on a planned unit development master plan. Phases are further
divisions found within a POD.
      PORTABLE FOOD SALES. A temporary retail food establishment that operates
for a temporary period of time in connection with another event, including but
not limited to a fair, carnival, concert, or other public gathering, and is
most often an accessory to the principal permitted use. PORTABLE FOOD SALES
ESTABLISHMENTS shall include portable units, mobile food units, and temporary
food establishments, as defined by the county’s Department of Public Health.
      PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION PLAT. A map of a proposed land subdivision
showing the character and proposed layout of the tract in sufficient detail to
indicate the compliance of the proposed subdivision of land with these
regulations and not intended for recordation.
      PRIMITIVE CAMPGROUND. A designated tent site of an undeveloped character,
provided at carefully selected locations typically in forested areas. The
campground will be located so as to accommodate the need for shelter in a
manner that is least intrusive to the surrounding environment. These
campgrounds shall be developed without hookups for water, power, sewage, or
many of the other amenities found at developed campgrounds.
      PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A building in which is conducted the principal or
main use of the property. Also referred to as PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE.
      PRIVATE DRIVEWAY. A roadway serving two or fewer lots, building sites, or
other divisions of land and not intended for public ingress or egress.
      PRIVATELY OWNED PUBLIC UTILITY STRUCTURES AND FACILITIES. Any structures
and facilities owned or operated by a privately owned electric, telephone, gas,
cable, or water and wastewater company.
      PROPERTY. All real property subject to zoning regulations and
restrictions and zone boundaries by the county.
      PUBLIC HEARING. A meeting, open to the public, held for the purpose of
providing and gaining information to and from the public, that may or may not
have a bearing on the decision of the Board of Commissioners or decision making
body, and required by the state general statutes.
      PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any improvement including, but not limited to,
drainage ditch, roadway, sidewalk, lot improvement, and/or other facility for
which the local government may ultimately assume the responsibility for
maintenance and operation, or which may affect an improvement for which the
local government responsibility is established.
      PUBLIC LIBRARY. A place containing books for reading, study, and research
that is open for public use.
      PUBLIC MEETING. A meeting, open to the public, held for the purpose of
providing and gaining information to and from the public, but not required by
state general statutes.
      PUBLIC SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A wastewater sewage system that is owned
by any unit of government or authority, or by a private corporation, person, or
association, and which is designed to serve uses locating along existing lines
or within the service area of the system, should additional collection lines be
constructed. This definition does not include individual sewage disposal
systems that serve only one lot.
      PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. Any water system furnishing potable water to the
public that is owned by any unit of government or authority, or by a private
corporation, person, or association and which is designed to serve uses
locating along existing lines or within the service area of the system, should
additional distribution lines be constructed. This definition does not include
individual systems that serve only one lot.
      PUBLICLY OWNED UTILITY STRUCTURES AND FACILITIES. Any structures and
facilities owned by the county or its agencies, or any other local government
entity, including, but not limited to, water lines, wastewater lines,
stormwater facilities, water treatment plants, wastewater treatment plants,
lift stations, pumping stations, booster stations, water tanks, and associated
facilities.
      RACE TRACK. An establishment either open to the public or organized
groups, including both indoor and outdoor facilities, where participants race
on a designated track and may or may not include a designated area for
spectators. RACE TRACK uses include, but are not limited to, radio controlled
(RC) vehicles, motor vehicles, go-karts, all-terrain vehicles, animals, and
other similar uses.
      RECREATION AND AMUSEMENT SERVICES. Any establishments engaged in
providing entertainment for a fee and including activities such as: dance
halls; studios; theatrical productions; bands, orchestras, and other musical
entertainment; bowling alleys; billiard and pool establishments; and any coin-
or token-operated machine for use as a game, entertainment, or amusement.
      RECREATIONAL DAY CAMP. A camp providing care and recreational activities
for participants, typically children, for a minimum of four consecutive days
and usually during the summer months.
      RECREATIONAL FACILITY. A place designed and equipped for the conduct of
sports and leisure-time activities, including, but not limited to, commercial,
personal, private, and public.
      RECREATIONAL FACILITY, INDOOR. A permanent structure containing
facilities for recreational activities including, but not limited to, tennis,
platform games, swimming, exercise rooms, handball, and/or similar activities,
all of which shall be performed indoors.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular, portable structure without permanent
foundation that can be towed, hauled, or driven and is designed for travel,
recreation, or vacation purposes, and is not designed to be used as a permanent
dwelling unit. RECREATIONAL VEHICLES include, but are not limited to, travel
trailers, truck campers, camping trailers, and self-propelled motor homes.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV), PARK MODEL. A vehicle that is built on a
single chassis, is 400 square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection, is self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck, and is generally used as temporary living quarters for recreational,
camping, travel, and seasonal use.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK (RV PARK). Any lot or parcel of land upon which
three or more sites and/or campsites are located, established, or maintained
for occupancy by recreational vehicles as temporary living quarters for
recreation or vacation purposes, and for which the owner(s) of the premises may
receive compensation.
      RECYCLABLES. Waste products capable of being reused or reprocessed into a
new product and specifically excluding motor vehicles, motor vehicle parts,
tires, batteries, accessories, petroleum products, or white goods.
      RECYCLING COLLECTION CENTERS. Unmanned facilities used for the
collection, separation, and short-term storage of recyclables but not on-site
processing, and typically an accessory to another use.
      RECYCLING COLLECTION CENTERS AND SOLID WASTE CONTAINER SITES. Manned
facilities, typically satellite locations provided for convenience to citizens,
used for the collection of solid waste, and for the collection, separation, and
short-term storage of recyclables but not on-site processing.
      RECYCLING PLANT. A facility in which recyclables such as, but not limited
to: newspapers, magazines, books, or other paper products; plastics; glass;
metal cans; and other similar products are recycled, reprocessed, or treated in
order to return products to a condition where they may be used again to make
new products. This definition does not include junkyards or any other facility
to reprocess motor vehicles, motor vehicle parts, tires, batteries,
accessories, petroleum products, or white goods.
      RELIGIOUS STRUCTURE. A place in which worship, ceremonies, rituals, and
education pertaining to a particular system of beliefs are held.
      REPOSSESSION STORAGE FACILITY (REPO LOT). An establishment or place of
business which is maintained, operated, or used for the temporary storage of
repossessed automobiles, machinery, and other similar merchandise.
      RESEARCH LABORATORY AND DEVELOPMENT. A facility for investigation into
the natural, physical, or social sciences, which may include engineering and
product development. Research laboratories imply physical activities usually
associated with wet labs or places with running water, gases, special
ventilation devices, chemicals, special heating and electrical or electronic
equipment, and/or use of animals or humans under controlled conditions. Uses
related to research and development, including laboratories and other
facilities for basic or applied research and development, pilot plants,
prototype production facilities, manufacturing uses with a high degree of
scientific input, and facilities for organizations or associations that promote
research. This includes the fields of biology, chemistry, electronics,
engineering, geology, medicine, and physics.
      RESIDENCE. See DWELLING.
      RESIDENTIAL SPRINKLER. A residential sprinkler system in compliance with
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 13D “Multi-Purpose System”.
      RESTAURANT. An establishment where the primary use is preparation,
serving, and consumption of food and drink, mostly within the principal
building.
      RETAIL SALES. Establishments including shops, stores, and service
establishments, engaged in the selling or rental of goods or merchandise
(usually to the general public for personal or household use) and in rendering
services incidental to the sale of the goods, entirely within an enclosed
building.
      RETAIL SALES, OUTDOOR. Use of property for the display and sales of
products and services, primarily outside of a building or structure, including,
but not limited to, manufactured homes, burial monuments, swimming pools, and
portable storage sheds including related repair activities and sale of parts.
Material sold is usually stored outdoors and typically a building is on-site in
which sales may be consummated or products displayed.
      ROADSIDE STANDS. Sales of agricultural products grown on-site but not
considered a bona fide farm for purposes of this chapter.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line, oil or gas
pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, or for another special use.
      SCHOOL. Any building or part thereof that is designed, constructed, or
used for education or instruction in any branch of knowledge that is licensed
by the state and meets state requirements for either elementary or secondary
education, but specifically not including those uses listed as otherwise by
this chapter.
      SEASONAL SALES. Sales that are typically made in relation to seasonal,
agricultural-related products, including, but not limited to, Christmas trees
and pumpkins, and only for a limited duration of time.
      SETBACK, BUILDING. A line in the interior of a lot that is generally
parallel to, and a specified distance from, the street right-of-way line which
creates a space between the lines in which no building shall be placed.
      SETBACK, CORNER SIDE YARD. The minimum horizontal distance between the
sideline of a building or structure and the adjacent public right-of-way line.
In cases where no public right-of-way exists, the setback shall be measured
from the easement line.
      SETBACK, FRONT YARD. The minimum horizontal distance between the front
line of a building or structure and adjacent public right-of-way line. In cases
where no public right-of-way exists, the setback shall be measured from the
easement line, or property line if no easement exists.
      SETBACK, REAR YARD. The minimum horizontal distance between the rear line
of a building or structure and the rear property line or right-of-way line.
      SETBACK. SIDE YARD. The minimum horizontal distance between the sideline
of a building or structure and the side property line.
      SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. 
         (a)   An establishment:
            1.   Where more than 40% of its stock is characterized as relating
to sexual activities or anatomical genital areas;
            2.   Either with or without a liquor license, offering adult live
entertainment, which may include, but is not limited to, topless and go-go
dancers, strippers, or male or female impersonators; and/or
            3.   That advertises or holds itself out in any forum as an adult
or sexually-oriented business.
         (b)   ADULT BOOKSTORE. A retail establishment having as its primary
stock-in-trade books, magazines, periodicals, video tapes, films, or other
items that are distinguished by their explicit emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to sexual activities, genital areas, or erotic behavior
and is intended to cause sexual excitement.
         (c)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATRE. A theatre within a permanent
indoor structure used for presenting films distinguished, characterized, or
relating to sexual activities, genital areas, or erotic behavior, and is
intended to cause sexual excitement.
         (d)   ADULT NIGHTCLUB. An entertainment establishment intended for
patrons of legal age which presents shows or acts distinguished by an emphasis
on, but not limited to, topless dancers, strippers, male or female
impersonators, or similar entertainers for observation by the patrons.
      SHOOTING RANGE. A specialized facility, either indoor or outdoor, often
designed with targets, for the use of firearms, archery, and other similar
activities, except those exempted by the state general statutes. Each facility
is typically overseen by one or more supervisory personnel who is responsible
for ensuring that gun safety rules are followed at all times.
      SHOPPING CENTER. Two or more commercial establishments having off-street
parking and loading facilities provided on the property and related in
location, size, and type of shops to the trade area which the unit serves.
      SIGN. An advertising device used to disseminate information concerning a
person, place, or thing.
         (a)   SIGN, BUSINESS. Any device which directs attention to a
business, profession, industry, or service located on the premises where the
sign is displayed either indoors or outdoors, including words, letters,
figures, designs, symbols, fixtures, colors, illumination, or projected images.
         (b)   SIGN, DIRECTORY. Any sign used for the purpose of listing the
tenants or occupants of building or group of buildings and/or development and
that may also indicate their respective location(s). DIRECTORY SIGNS are
similar to wayfinding signs typically found in municipalities; however,
directory signs are intended for identification of facilities located within a
development.
         (c)   SIGN, GROUND. A freestanding sign in which the sign and/or
support is in contact with the ground. GROUND SIGNS include monument style and
pole style signs, and may also include directory and/or directional style
signs.
         (d)   SIGN, OFF-SITE DIRECTIONAL. Any sign limited to directional
message for a business or nonprofit, and in some cases may include the name of
the business or nonprofit, as allowed by this chapter.
         (e)   SIGN, OUTDOOR ADVERTISING. Any outdoor sign, display, light,
device, figure, painting, drawing, message, plaque, poster, billboard, or any
other thing which is designed, intended or used to advertise or inform any part
of the advertising or information contents, to the public about a subject
unrelated to the premises upon which the sign is located. For purposes of this
chapter, the term OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN and its definition shall be
interchangeable with the following terms: OUTDOOR ADVERTISING; OUTDOOR
ADVERTISING STRUCTURE; OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN STRUCTURE; and BILLBOARD.
         (f)   SIGN, PORTABLE. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground
or other permanent structure, or a sign designed to be transported. Includes,
but is not limited to:
            1.   Signs designed to be transported by means of wheels, runners,
castors, trailers, or other mobile devices;
            2.   Balloons used as signs;
            3.   Umbrellas used for advertising; and
            4.   Signs attached to or painted on vehicles parked and visible
from the public right(s)-of-way, unless the vehicle is regularly and
customarily used in the normal day-to-day operations of the business.
         (g)   SIGN, SALVAGEABLE COMPONENTS. Components of the original sign
structure prior to the damage that can be repaired or replaced on-site by the
use of labor only. If any materials, other than nuts, bolts, nails or similar
hardware, are required in order to repair a component, the component is not
considered to be SALVAGEABLE.
         (h)   SIGN, SIGNIFICANTLY DAMAGED. A sign which has been damaged or
partially destroyed due to factors other than vandalism or other criminal or
tortious acts to an extent that the damage to the sign is greater than 50%.
         (i)   SIGN, STREET. The sign designating the official name and/or
number of the street and being of a design approved by the county and installed
according to county guidelines.
         (j)   SIGN, WALL. A sign fastened to, or painted on, the wall of a
building or structure, or canopy, awning, or marquee of the building, in a
manner that the wall becomes the supporting structure for, or forms the
background surface of, the sign.
      SITE PLAN (SITE SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN). A plan which has been
submitted to the county by a property owner describing with reasonable
certainty the type and intensity of use for parcel(s) of property. The plan may
be in the form of, but not limited to, any of the following plans or approvals:
planned unit development plan; subdivision plat; preliminary or general
development plan; special use permit; or any other land use approval
designation as may be utilized by the county. Refer to G.S. Chapter 160D.
         (a)   SITE PLAN, COMMUNITY. A plan which has been submitted to the
county, describing with reasonable certainty the type and intensity of use for
parcel(s) of property, meeting the requirements of this chapter, and which is
intended for project or development between five and 15 acres in size.
         (b)   SITE PLAN, MINOR. A plan which has been submitted to the county,
describing with reasonable certainty the type and intensity of use for parcel
(s) of property, meeting the requirements of this chapter, and which is
intended for existing structures, or for new structures or expansions of
existing structures of less than 600 square feet.
         (c)   SITE PLAN, NEIGHBORHOOD. A plan which has been submitted to the
county, describing with reasonable certainty the type and intensity of use for
parcel(s) of property, meeting the requirements of this chapter, and which is
intended for projects or developments up to five acres in size.
         (d)   SITE PLAN, REGIONAL. A plan which has been submitted to the
county, describing with reasonable certainty the type and intensity of use for
parcel(s) of property, meeting the requirements of this chapter, and which is
intended for projects or developments larger than 15 acres in size.
      SKETCH PLAT/PLAN. A sketch preparatory to the preliminary plat (or final
plat in the case of minor subdivisions) to enable the developer to save time
and expense in reaching general agreement with the county as to the form of the
plat and the objectives of these regulations and shall in no case be construed
to garner vested rights.
      SKIRTING. See UNDERPINNING.
      SOLAR COLLECTOR. A device or combination of devices, structure, or part
of a device or structure that transforms direct solar energy into usable
energy.
      SOLAR ENERGY FACILITY. A complete design or assembly for the purpose of
transforming solar energy into usable energy, consisting of a solar energy
collector, an energy storage facility (where used), and components for the
distribution of transformed energy.
      SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A complete design or assembly for the purpose of
transforming solar energy into electricity or for heating water, used
exclusively for accessory purposes only.
      SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL. 
         (a)   Unwanted or discarded material that cannot be salvaged or
recycled, and shall refer to the following types of waste disposal:
            1.   Construction and debris (C&D);
            2.   Land application of sludge, or petroleum-contaminated soil;
            3.   Land clearing and inert debris (LCID) landfill; and/or
            4.   Municipal solid waste (MSW).
         (b)   Associated acronyms for certain types of facilities shall be
deemed to refer to the appropriate facility type, as described herein, for
purposes of this chapter.
      STORAGE, SELF MINI-WAREHOUSE. A building or group of buildings designed
to provide separate access to individually rented storage units used
exclusively for storing customer’s goods or wares. No sales, service, or repair
activities other than the rental of storage units and its related activities,
are permitted within storage units.
      STREAM. A watercourse having a source and terminus, banks, and channel
through which water flows at least periodically.
      STREET/ROAD. A dedicated, and designed and installed for the purpose of
acceptance by NCDOT, public right-of-way for transportation, including
vehicular traffic and pedestrian circulation.
         (a)   STREET, ALLEY. A service street of 20 feet in width, providing a
secondary means of access to adjoining property and not intended for general
traffic circulation.
         (b)   STREET, ARTERY. A major street designed as part of a network/
system of continuous routes and primarily to carry heavy volumes of through
traffic. Expressways and boulevards are examples of roadways in the arterial
system.
         (c)   STREET, HALF. A street whose centerline coincides with a
subdivision plat boundary, with half the street right-of-way width being
contained within the subdivision plat. Also, any existing street to which the
parcel of land to be subdivided abuts on only one side.
         (d)   STREET, LOCAL/RURAL. A road whose primary function is to provide
access to abutting properties and to provide service to travel over relatively
short distances as compared to collectors or other higher systems.
         (e)   STREET, MAJOR COLLECTOR. Routes that provide services to large
towns not directly served by the arterial systems and to other traffic
generators of equivalent intracounty importance, and serve as important
intracounty travel corridors.
         (f)   STREET, MINOR COLLECTOR. Routes that collect traffic from local
roads, bring all developed areas within a reasonable distance of a collector,
provide service to smaller communities, and distribute that traffic to major
collectors and arterials.
         (g)   STREET, PRIVATE. Any street or roadway not maintained by NCDOT.
An undedicated private right-of-way that affords access to abutting properties
according to the standards of this chapter and in accordance with the state
general statutes. This is also any road or street that is not publicly owned
and maintained and is used for access by the occupants of the development,
their guests, and the general public.
         (h)   STREET, RESIDENTIAL LOCAL SUBDIVISION. Either cul-de-sacs, loop
roads, roads that do not connect thoroughfares or serve major traffic
generators. Residential collector streets include the types of streets listed
below.
            1.   Dead-end roads. These roads are no more than 2,500 feet in
length, open at one end only without special provisions for turning around, and
have collector characteristics. For purposes of this chapter, dead-end roads
with temporary turn-arounds shall be deemed to meet this definition.
            2.   Short connecting roads. These roads are normally one block
long or extend on a block-by-block basis and have no collector characteristics.
            3.   Loop roads. A road that has its beginning and ending points on
the same route. It is more than one mile in length and has no collector
characteristics.
            4.   Other roads. These roads do not connect thoroughfares or serve
major traffic generators and do not have collector characteristics.
            5.   Cul-de-sac roads. These are very short roads, open at one end
only, with a special provision for turning around. They have a bulb end design
with a specific turning radii and a limited number of lots.
         (i)   STREET, THROUGH. A road which serves as a connecting road system
between public right(s)-of-way.
         (j)   THOROUGHFARE, MAJOR. Consist of interstate, other freeway,
expressway, or parkway roads and major streets that provide for the expeditious
movement of high volumes of traffic within and through urban areas.
         (k)   THOROUGHFARE, MINOR. Perform the function of collecting traffic
from local access streets and carrying it to the major thoroughfare system.
MINOR THOROUGHFARES may be used to supplement the major thoroughfare system by
facilitating minor through traffic movements and may also serve abutting
property.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, including but not limited to
buildings, which requires location on land or attachment to something having
permanent location on the land.
      SUBDIVIDER. Any person who:
         (a)   Having an interest in land, causes it, directly or indirectly,
to be divided;
         (b)   Directly or indirectly sell, leases, or develops, or offers to
sell, lease, or develop, or advertises for sale, lease, or development, any
interest, lot, parcel, site, unit, or plat in a subdivision;
         (c)   Engages directly or through an agent in the business of selling,
leasing, developing, or offering for sale, lease, or development a subdivision,
of any interest, lot, parcel, site, unit, or plat in a subdivision; and/or
         (d)   Is directly or indirectly controlled by, or under direct, or
indirect common control with any of the foregoing.
      SUBDIVISION. The division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land into two or
more lots, tracts, parcels, or other divisions of land for sale, development,
or lease.
         (a)   SUBDIVISION, MAJOR. All subdivisions of land into six or more
residential lots, three or more nonresidential lots, and/or any subdivision not
classified as minor subdivisions.
         (b)   SUBDIVISION, MINOR. A minor subdivision is:
            1.   Any subdivision which creates a maximum of five residential
lots each of which front on a state maintained street; or
            2.   Any subdivision which allows a maximum of six residential lots
to be created on a 50-foot easement abutting a state-maintained street, unless
otherwise stated by this chapter.
         (c)   SUBDIVISION, PHASED. Subdivision approval submitted pursuant to
a master preliminary plat, or at the option of the subdivider, pursuant to a
specific plan in which the applicant proposes to immediately subdivide the
property but will develop in two or more individual phase(s), where each phase
could be considered a major subdivision on its own, over a period of time.
      SUBDIVISION ADMINISTRATOR. The Manager of Planning Services in the
Harnett County Planning Department, or his or her designee, who has
administrative and enforcement duties related to the subdivision regulations
included herein.
      SURETY PERFORMANCE BOND. A promise to pay one party a certain amount if
the second party fails to meet some obligation, issued by an insurance company
or bank to guarantee satisfactory completion of a project by a contractor.
      SWIMMING POOL. Any permanent structure, chamber, and/or tank, either in
or above ground, containing an artificial body of water at least four feet deep
at any point which is used for swimming, diving, wading, recreation, or therapy
together with all buildings, appurtenances and equipment used in connection
with the body of water.
      SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT FEE.  Requirement of the developer to dedicate or pay
for all or a portion of land or costs of public facilities as a condition of
development approval.
      TEMPORARY EVENT. An activity limited in duration and infrequent in
occurrence, which is not part of the ordinary activities of the facility or
site on which the event is located, including, but not limited to, carnivals,
fairs, and festivals.
      TEMPORARY TURN-AROUND. Area for turning motor vehicles at the end of a
street, which is constructed either within the dedicated right-of-way or upon a
temporary easement, to be removed when the road is extended.
      TIE DOWNS. Galvanized steel cables or strapping which ties a manufactured
home and its steel frame to anchors embedded in the ground.
      TRACT. A piece of land whose boundaries have been described or delimited
by a legal instrument or map recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds.
      TRADE SCHOOL. A secondary or higher education facility primarily teaching
usable skills that prepares students for jobs in a trade and meeting
requirements of the state for certification.
      TRUCK DRIVING SCHOOL. A secondary or higher education facility primarily
teaching skills that prepares students for jobs in the trucking or truck
driving industry and meeting the requirements of the state for certification.
      TURKEY SHOOT, TEMPORARY/SEASONAL. An establishment catering to guests who
participate in a marksmanship contest using targets with compensation offered
as a prize.
      UNDERPINNING. Skirting or curtain walls installed in good workmanship-
like manner along the entire base of a manufactured home, except for
ventilation and crawl space requirements, and consisting of one of the
following:
         (a)   Metal with a baked-on finish of uniform color;
         (b)   Uniform design and color vinyl, including artificial stone; or
         (c)   Brick and stone masonry.
      UNIT OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE. Any building or structure in which unit
ownership has been created by the owners or co-owners of an express declaration
of intent under the Unit Ownership Act of G.S. §§ 47A-1 et seq.
      USE. The activity or function that actually takes place or is intended to
take place on a lot.
         (a)   USE, ACCESSORY. A use or structure which includes, but is not
limited to, freestanding gazebos, freestanding decks, sheds, and storage
buildings, and are:
            1.   Conducted or located on the same lot as the principal building
or use served, except as may be specifically provided elsewhere in this
chapter;
            2.   Clearly incidental to, subordinate in purpose to, and serves
the principal use; and
            3.   Either in the same ownership as the principal use or is
clearly operated and maintained solely for the comfort, convenience, necessity,
or benefit of the occupants, employees, customers, or visitors of or to the
principal use.
         (b)   USE, PRINCIPAL. A use that is listed in the “Table of use types
and regulations” found in §
153.105(B) and is the primary use of the lot on which it is located.
         (c)   USE, TEMPORARY. A use established for a limited duration with
the intent to discontinue the use upon the expiration of the time period
allotted.
      VARIANCE. A grant of relief to an applicant from the requirements of this
chapter where unusual or unique circumstances peculiar to the property exist,
literal enforcement would result in unnecessary and undue hardship, and the
relaxation of the regulations would not be contrary to the public interest.
Provided however, that the need for the VARIANCE was not caused or created by
the applicant or property owner.
      VEHICLE SALES. Sales of automobiles, recreational vehicles, boats, farm
equipment, and other similar products, typically in an open area, used for the
display, sale, or rental of new or used vehicles in operable condition where no
repair work is done. Small equipment shall not be considered a vehicle herein.
      VESTED RIGHT. The right to undertake and complete the development and use
of property under the terms and conditions of an approved site specific
development plan or approved phased development plan.
      VETERINARIAN SERVICE. A place where animals are given medical care and
the boarding of animals is limited to short-term care incidental to the
hospital care.
      VIOLATION. The establishment, creation, expansion, alteration,
occupation, or maintenance of any use, land development activity, or structure,
including, but not limited to, signs and buildings, that is inconsistent with
any provisions of this chapter or any order, approval, or authorization issued
pursuant to this chapter.
         (a)   VIOLATION, SUBSEQUENT. A violation, as defined herein, that
occurs more than once on the same parcel(s) or by the same property owner(s)
within any 12-month period.
      WALL. See FENCE.
      WAREHOUSE. A building used primarily for the storage of goods and
materials.
      WATERCOURSE. Any natural or artificial stream, river, brook, swamp,
sound, bay, creek, run, branch, canal, waterway, estuary, or lake where: water
flows in a definite direction or course, either continuously or intermittently;
has a definite channel, bed, and banks; and includes any areas adjacent thereto
subject to inundation by reason of overflow or floodwater.
      WATERSHED. The entire land area contributing surface drainage to a
specific point, such as the water supply intake.
      WHOLESALE TRADE. An establishment or place of business primarily engaged
in selling merchandise to other businesses including, but not limited to,
retailers, industrial, commercial, institutional, or professional business
users, other wholesalers, or acting as agents or brokers and buying merchandise
for, or selling merchandise to, these individuals or companies.
      WIND ENERGY FACILITY. A system designed to provide energy, wherein the
power is generated from wind turbines, towers, and associated control or
conversion electronics.
      WIND ENERGY SYSTEM. A single system designed to supplement other
electricity sources as an accessory use to existing buildings or facilities
wherein the power generated is used primarily for on-site consumption. These
facilities consist of a single wind turbine, tower, and associated control or
conversion electronics.
      WIND TURBINE. A wind energy conversion system that converts wind energy
into electricity through the use of a wind turbine generator, and may include a
nacelle, rotor, tower, guy wires, and pad transformer. Also known as a
“windmill”.
      YARD SALE. The resale, sale, or offering for sale to the general public
of items of personal property by the owner(s) or tenants of an improved lot in
a residential zoning district, whether without or outside any building.
      ZOO AND PETTING ZOO. A place where animals are kept, often in a
combination of indoor and outdoor spaces, and are viewed by the public.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 5-21-2012; Res. passed 9-17-2012; Res.
passed 2-17-2014; Res. passed 5-18-2015; Res. passed 10-19-2015; Res. passed
11-16-2020; Res. passed 6-21-2021; Ord. 2022-05, passed 2-21-2022; Ord. 2024-
31, passed 11-18-2024)
§ 153.022 AIRPORT HEIGHT CONTROL DEFINITIONS AND ACRONYMS.
   (A)   Airport height control acronyms.
C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations
FAA    Federal Aviation Administration
FBO    Fixed base operator
HRJ    Harnett Regional Jetport
ILS    Instrument landing system
NCDA   NCDOT Division of Aviation
NTSB   National Transportation Safety Board
OFZ    Object Free Zone
REIL   Runway end identifier lights
ROFA   Runway Object Free Area
RPZ    Runway Protection Zone
RSA    Runway Safety Area
TSA    Transportation Security Administration
 
   (B)   Airport height control definitions. For the purpose of this chapter,
the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      AIRPORT. Herein, the Harnett Regional Jetport.
      AIRPORT ELEVATION. The highest point of an airport’s usable landing area
measured in feet above sea level.
      APPROACH SURFACE. A surface longitudinally centered on the extended
runway centerline, extending outward and upward from the end of the primary
surface and at the same slope as the approach zone height limitation slope set
forth in §
153.192. In plan, the perimeter of the approach surface coincides with the
perimeter of the approach zone.
      APPROACH, TRANSITIONAL, HORIZONTAL, AND CONICAL ZONES. These zones are
set forth in §
153.191.
      CONICAL SURFACE. A surface extending outward and upward from the
periphery of the horizontal surface at a slope of 20:1 for a horizontal
distance of 4,000 feet.
      EXPECTED HEIGHT LIMITATIONS. Nothing in §§
153.190 through 153.193 shall be construed as prohibiting the construction or
maintenance of any structure, or growth of any tree or other vegetation to a
height up to 50 feet above the surface of the land.
      HAZARD TO AIR NAVIGATION. An obstruction determined to have a substantial
adverse effect on the safe and efficient utilization of the navigable airspace.
      HEIGHT. For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set
forth in §§
153.190 through 153.193 and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean
sea level elevation unless otherwise specified.
      HORIZONTAL SURFACE. A horizontal plane 150 feet above the established
airport elevation, the perimeter of which in plan coincides with the perimeter
of the horizontal zone.
      LARGER THAN UTILITY RUNWAY. A runway that is constructed for and intended
to be used by propeller driven aircraft of greater than 12,500 pounds maximum
gross weight and jet powered aircraft.
      NONPRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway having an existing instrument
approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with only horizontal
guidance, or area type navigation equipment, for which a straight-in
nonprecision instrument approach procedure has been approved or planned.
      OBSTRUCTION. Any structure, growth, or other object, including a mobile
object, which exceeds a limiting height set forth in §
153.192.
      PRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. Runway having an existing instrument
approach procedure utilizing an Instrument Land System (ILS) or a Precision
Approach Radar (PAR).
      PRIMARY SURFACE. A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the
runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface extends 200
feet beyond each end of that runway. The width of the primary surface is set
forth in §
153.191. The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same as the
elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
      RUNWAY. A defined area on an airport prepared for landing and take-off of
aircraft along its length.
      RUNWAY ENDS. Refers to the existing physical end of the hard-surfaced
asphalt runway on the southwest end (coordinates Lat. 35022'29.7" N, Long.
78044'16.5" W), and the future end of the runway on the northeast end after an
extension to 5,000 feet (coordinates Lat. 35023'07.5" N, Long. 78043'36.4" W).
      STRUCTURE. In reference to §§
153.190 through 153.193, structure shall mean an object, including a mobile
object, constructed or installed by humans, including but without limitation,
buildings, towers, cranes, smokestacks, earth formation, and overhead
transmission lines.
      TRANSITIONAL SURFACES. These surfaces extend outward at 90 degree angles
to the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a slope of seven
feet horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of the primary and
approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and conical surfaces.
TRANSITIONAL SURFACES for those portions of the precision approach surfaces,
which project through and beyond the limits of the conical surface, extend a
distance of 5,000 feet measured horizontally from the edge of the approach
surface and at 90-degree angles to the extended runway centerline.
      TREE. In reference to §§
153.190 through 153.193, any object of natural growth.
      UTILITY RUNWAY. A runway that is constructed for and intended to be used
by propeller driven aircraft of 12,500 pounds maximum gross weight and less.
      VISUAL RUNWAY. A runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft
using visual approach procedures.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.023 COMMUNICATIONS TOWER DEFINITIONS AND ACRONYMS.
   (A)   Communications tower acronyms.
 
ASR Antenna structure registration
FAA Federal Aviation Administration
FCC Federal Communications Commission
 
   (B)   Communications tower definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      ALTERNATIVE STRUCTURE. A structure that is not primarily constructed for
the purpose of holding antennas but on which one or more antennas may be
mounted, including buildings, water tanks, pole signs, billboards, church
steeples, and electric power transmission towers.
      AMATEUR RADIO TOWER. Any tower used for amateur radio transmissions
consistent with the FCC Part 97 Rules and Regulations for amateur radio towers.
      ANCILLARY STRUCTURE. For the purposes of §
153.115(B), any form of development associated with a communications facility,
including foundations, concrete slabs on grade, guy anchors, generators, and
transmission cable supports, but excluding equipment cabinets.
      ANTI-CLIMBING DEVICE. A piece or pieces of equipment, which are either
attached to a tower, or which are freestanding and are designed to prevent
people from climbing the structure, including fine mesh wrap around structure
legs, squirrel-cones, and other approved devices, but excluding the use of
barbed or razor wire.
      ANTENNA. Any apparatus designed for the transmitting and/or receiving of
electromagnetic waves, including telephonic, radio, or television
communications. Types of elements include omni-directional (whip) antennas,
sectionalized (panel) antennas, multi or single bay (FM and TV), yagi, or
parabolic (dish) antennas.
      ANTENNA ARRAY. A single or group of antenna elements and associated
mounting hardware, transmission lines, or other appurtenances which share a
common attachment device such as a mounting frame or mounting support structure
for the sole purpose of transmitting or receiving electromagnetic waves.
      ANTENNA ELEMENT. Any antenna or antenna array.
      ASR. The Antenna Structure Registration Number as required by the FAA and
FCC.
      BASE STATION. The electronic equipment utilized by the wireless providers
for the transmission and reception of radio signals.
      BREAKPOINT TECHNOLOGY. The engineering design of a monopole wherein a
specified point on the monopole is designed to have stresses concentrated so
that the point is at least 5% more susceptible to failure than any other point
along the monopole so that in the event of a structural failure of the
monopole, the failure will occur at the breakpoint rather than at the base
plate, anchor bolts, or any other point on the monopole.
      BROADCAST FACILITIES. Towers, antennas, and/or antenna arrays for AM/FM/
TV/HDTV broadcasting transmission facilities that are licensed by the Federal
Communications Commission.
      CO-LOCATION. The practice of installing and operating multiple wireless
carriers, service providers, and/or radio common carrier licensees on the same
tower or attached communication facility using different and separate antenna,
feed lines, and radio frequency generating equipment.
      COMBINED ANTENNA. An antenna or an antenna array designed and utilized to
provide services for more than one wireless provider, or a single wireless
provider utilizing more than one frequency band or spectrum, for the same or
similar type of services.
      CONCEALED. A tower, ancillary structure, or equipment compound that is
not readily identifiable as such, and is designed to be aesthetically
compatible with existing and proposed building(s) and uses on a site. There are
two types of concealed facilities:
         (a)   Antenna attachments. Antenna attachments, including painted
antenna and feed lines to match the color of a building or structure, faux
windows, dormers, or other architectural features that blend with an existing
or proposed building or structure; and
         (b)   Freestanding. Freestanding concealed towers usually have a
secondary, obvious function which may include church steeple, windmill, bell
tower, clock tower, light standard, flagpole with or without a flag, or tree.
      DEVELOPMENT AREA. The area occupied by a communications facility
including areas inside or under an antenna-support structure’s framework,
equipment cabinets, ancillary structures, and/or access ways.
      DISCONTINUED. Any tower without any mounted transmitting and/or receiving
antennas in continued use for a period of 180 consecutive days.
      EQUIPMENT CABINET. Any structure above the base flood elevation including
cabinets, shelters, pedestals, and other similar structures and used
exclusively to contain radio or other equipment necessary for the transmission
or reception of wireless communication signals.
      EQUIPMENT COMPOUND. The fenced-in area surrounding the ground-based
wireless communication facility including the areas inside or under a tower’s
framework and ancillary structures such as equipment necessary to operate the
antenna on the structure that is above the base flood elevation including
cabinets, shelters, pedestals, and other similar structures.
      FEED LINES. Cables used as the interconnecting media between the
transmission/receiving base station and the antenna.
      FLUSH-MOUNTED. Any antenna or antenna array attached directly to the face
of the support structure or building such that no portion of the antenna
extends above the height of the support structure or building. Where a maximum
flush-mounting distance is given, that distance shall be measured from the
outside edge of the support structure or building to the inside edge of the
antenna.
      GEOGRAPHIC SEARCH RING. An area designated by a wireless provider or
operator for a new base station, produced in accordance with generally accepted
principles of wireless engineering.
      GUYED STRUCTURE. See TOWER.
      HANDOFF CANDIDATE. A wireless communication facility that receives call
transference from another wireless facility, usually located in an adjacent
first tier surrounding the initial wireless facility.
      LATTICE STRUCTURE. See TOWER.
      LEAST VISUALLY OBTRUSIVE PROFILE. The design of a wireless communication
facility intended to present a visual profile that is the minimum profile
necessary for the facility to properly function.
      MITIGATION. A modification of an existing tower to increase the height,
or to improve its integrity, by replacing or removing one or several tower(s)
located in proximity to a proposed new tower in order to encourage compliance
with §
153.115(B), or improve aesthetics or functionality of the overall wireless
network.
      MONOPOLE STRUCTURE. See TOWER.
      NON-CONCEALED. A wireless communication facility that is readily
identifiable as such and can be either freestanding or attached.
      PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE. Commercial mobile services, unlicensed
wireless services, and common carrier wireless exchange access services as
defined in the Telecommunications Act of 1996.
      PUBLIC SAFETY COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT. All communications equipment
utilized by a public entity for the purpose of ensuring the safety of the
citizens of the county and operating within the frequency range of 700 MHZ and
1,000 MHZ and any future spectrum allocations at the direction of the FCC.
      RADIO FREQUENCY EMISSIONS. Any electromagnetic radiation or other
communications signal emitted from an antenna or antenna-related equipment on
the ground, tower, building, or other vertical projection.
      RADIO FREQUENCY PROPAGATION ANALYSIS. Computer modeling to show the level
of signal saturation in a given geographical area.
      REPLACEMENT. See MITIGATION.
      SATELLITE EARTH STATION. A single or group of parabolic or dish antennas
mounted to a support device that may be a pole or truss assembly attached to a
foundation in the ground, or in some other configuration, including the
associated separate equipment cabinets necessary for the transmission or
reception of wireless communications signals with satellites.
      STREAMLINED PROCESSING. Expedited review process for co-locations.
      STRUCTURE. For purposes of §
153.115(B), anything constructed or erected, the use of which required
permanent location on the ground, or attachment to something having a permanent
location on the ground, including advertising signs.
      TOWER. Any staffed or unstaffed location for the transmission and/or
reception of radio frequency signals or other wireless communications, and
usually consisting of an antenna or group of antennas, transmission cables,
equipment cabinets, and may include a tower. The following developments shall
be deemed a communications facility: new, mitigated, or existing towers; public
towers; replacement towers; co-location on existing towers; attached wireless
communications facilities; concealed wireless communication facilities; and
non-concealed wireless communication facilities. Towers do not include any
device used to attach antennas to an existing building, unless the device
extends above the highest point of the building by more than 20 feet. Types of
support structures include “guyed tower”, “lattice structure”, and “monopole
structure”.
         (a)   TOWER, GUYED. A style of tower consisting of a single truss
assembly composed of sections with bracing incorporated. The sections are
attached to each other, and the assembly is attached to a foundation and
supported by a series of wires that are connected to anchors placed in the
ground or on a building.
         (b)   TOWER, LATTICE STRUCTURE. A tapered style of tower that consists
of vertical and horizontal supports with multiple legs and cross bracing, and
metal crossed strips or bars to support antennas.
         (c)   TOWER, MONOPOLE STRUCTURE. A style of freestanding tower
consisting of a single shaft usually composed of two or more hollow sections
that are in turn attached to a foundation. This type of tower is designed to
support itself without the use of guy wires or other stabilization devices.
These facilities are mounted to a foundation that rests on or in the ground or
on a building’s roof. All feed lines shall be installed within the shaft of the
structure.
      TOWER BASE. The foundation, usually concrete, on which the tower and
other support equipment are situated. For measurement calculations, the TOWER
BASE is that point on the foundation reached by dropping a line perpendicular
from the geometric center of the tower.
      TOWER HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the grade line to the
highest point of the tower, including any antenna, lighting, or other equipment
affixed thereto.
      TOWER SITE. The land area that contains, or will contain, a proposed
tower, support structures, collapse zone, and other related buildings and
improvements.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.024 NATURAL RESOURCES DEFINITIONS AND ACRONYMS.
   The following definitions include those applicable to both the Flood Damage
Prevention and Water Supply Watershed regulations, specifically, as well as all
natural resources regulations, generally, of this chapter.
   (A)   Natural resources acronyms.
A     Flood Zone A
AE    Flood Zone AE
AO    Flood Zone AO
BFE   Base flood elevation
BMP   Best management practices
FEMA  Federal Emergency Management Agency
FBFM  Flood Boundary and Floodway Map
FHBM  Flood Hazard Boundary Map
FIRM  Flood Insurance Rate Map
FIS   Flood insurance study
HAG   Highest adjacent grade
LAG   Lowest adjacent grade
NFIP  National Flood Insurance Program
NAVD  North American Vertical Datum
NGVD  National Geodetic Vertical Datum
NPDES National pollution discharge elimination system
RFPE  Regulatory flood protection elevation
SFHA  Special flood hazard area
SNIA  Special nonresidential intensity allocation
WS    Watershed
WSE   Water surface elevation
X     Flood Zone X
X500  Flood Zone X500
 
   (B)   Natural resources definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure, which is
located on the same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use
of which is incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages,
carports, and storage sheds are common urban ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. Pole barns,
hay sheds, and the like qualify as ACCESSORY STRUCTURES on farms, and may or
may not be located on the same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
      ADDITION. An extension or increase in the floor area or height of a
building or structure.
      AGRICULTURAL USE. For purposes of §§
153.260 through 153.262, the use of waters for stock watering, irrigation, and
other farm purposes.
      ANIMAL UNIT. A unit of measurement developed by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency that is used to compare different types of animal operations.
      APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of §§
153.245 through 153.248.
      AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated Zone AO on the Harnett County
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from
one to three feet. These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does
not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and
where velocity flow may be evident.
      AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
      BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on more than one side.
      BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.
      BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination as published in the Flood
Insurance Study of the water surface elevations of the base flood. When the BFE
has not been provided in a special flood hazard area, it may be obtained from
engineering studies available from a federal or state or other source using
FEMA approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the
freeboard, establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP). A structural or non-structural
management based practice which uses singularly or combination of methods to
reduce non-point source inputs to receiving waters in order to achieve water
quality protection goals.
      BUFFER. For purposes of §§
153.260 through 153.262, an area of natural or planted vegetation through which
stormwater runoff flows in a diffuse manner so that the runoff does not become
channelized and which provides for infiltration of the runoff and filtering of
pollutants. The BUFFER is measured landward from the normal pool elevation of
impounded structures and from the bank of each side of streams or rivers.
      BUILDING. For purposes of §§
153.260 through 153.262, any structure having a roof supported by columns or by
walls, and intended for shelter, housing, or enclosure of persons, animals, or
property. The connection of two buildings by means of an open porch, breezeway,
passageway, carport, or other such open structure, with or without a roof,
shall not be deemed to make them one BUILDING. (Also see STRUCTURE)
      BUILT-UPON AREA. Built-upon areas shall include that portion of a
development project that is covered by impervious or partially impervious cover
including buildings, pavement, gravel areas, recreation facilities, and the
like. (Note: Wooden slatted decks and the water area of a swimming pool are
considered pervious.)
      CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of the building, or
exterior area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or
chemically reactive products.
      CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. For purposes of §§
153.260 through 153.262, the grouping of buildings in order to conserve land
resources and provide for innovation in the design of the project. This term
includes nonresidential development as well as single-family residential
subdivision and multifamily developments that do not involve the subdivision of
land. Any development with 10% or greater amount of open space.
      COMPOSTING FACILITY. A facility in which only stumps, limbs, leaves,
grass, and untreated wood collected from land clearing or landscaping
operations is deposited.
      CRITICAL AREA. The area adjacent to a water supply intake or reservoir
where risk associated with pollution is greater than the remaining portions of
the watershed. The CRITICAL AREA is defined as:
         (a)   Extending either one-half mile from the normal pool elevation of
the reservoir in which the intake is located or to the ridge line of the
watershed (whichever comes first); or
         (b)   One-half mile upstream from the intake located directly in the
stream or river (run of the river), or the ridge line of the watershed
(whichever comes first).
      DEVELOPMENT, FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION. Any human-made change to improved
or unimproved real estate, including, but not limited to, buildings or other
structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling
operations, or storage of equipment or materials.
      DEVELOPMENT, WATER SUPPLY WATERSHED. For purposes of §§
153.260 through
153.262, any land disturbing activity which adds to or changes the amount of
impervious or partially impervious cover on a land area or which otherwise
decreases the infiltration of precipitation into the soil.
      DEVELOPMENT, EXISTING WATER SUPPLY WATERSHED. For projects that do not
require a state permit, EXISTING DEVELOPMENT shall mean a project that, at a
minimum, has established a vested right under state zoning law as of the
effective date of §§
153.260 through
153.262 based on at least one of the following criteria:
         (a)   Substantial expenditures of resources (time, labor, money) based
on a good faith reliance upon having received a valid local government approval
to proceed with the project;
         (b)   Having an outstanding valid building permit as authorized by
G.S. Chapter 160D; or
         (c)   Having an approved site specific or phased development plan as
authorized by the state general statutes.
      DISPOSAL. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including groundwaters.
      DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
      ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its reference level
raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings, or columns.
      ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, permanent structures, or development into a floodplain, which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
      EROSION, ACCELERATED. The increased rate and intensity of natural erosion
caused by human-made disturbances.
      EROSION, NATURAL. The wearing away of the earth’s surface by water, wind,
and other natural agents under natural environmental conditions undisturbed by
humans.
      FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
         (a)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
         (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters
from any source.
      FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map of the county,
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which the special flood
hazard areas and the floodways are delineated. This official map is a
supplement to and shall be used in conjunction with the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM).
      FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The minimum area of the floodplain that, on the
average, is likely to be flooded once every 100 years (i.e., that has a 1%
chance of being flooded each year) as identified by the federal insurance
administration on flood hazard area boundary maps dated September 18, 2006 or
as amended.
      FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of the county, issued
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the special
flood hazard areas have been defined as Zone AE.
      FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
      FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of Harnett County,
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the special
flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are
delineated.
      FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation, and
determination of flood hazard areas, corresponding water surface elevations (if
appropriate), flood hazard risk zones, and other flood data in a community
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY
report includes Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) and Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps (FBFMs), if published.
      FLOOD PRONE AREA. See FLOODPLAIN.
      FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or
Flood Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
      FLOOD ZONE, A. An area inundated by 100-year flooding, for which no BFEs
have been established.
      FLOOD ZONE, AE. An area inundated by 100-year flooding, for which BFEs
have been determined.
      FLOOD ZONE, AO. An area inundated by 100-year flooding (usually sheet
flow on sloping terrain), for which average depths have been determined; flood
depths range from one to three feet.
      FLOOD ZONE, X. An area that is determined to be outside the 100- and 500-
year floodplains.
      FLOOD ZONE, X500. An area inundated by 500-year flooding; an area
inundated by 100-year flooding with average depths of less than one foot or
with drainage areas less than one square mile; or an area protected by levees
from 100-year flooding.
      FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being
inundated by water from any source.
      FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and
enforce the floodplain management regulations.
      FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of §§
153.245 through 153.248, prior to the commencement of any development activity.
      FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective
and preventative measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and
enhancing, where possible, natural resources in the flooplain, including, but
not limited to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain
management regulations, and open space plans.
      FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS. 
         (a)   The regulations contained in §§
153.245 through 153.248, any other section of this chapter, local or state
building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances, and other
applications of police power which control development in flood-prone areas.
         (b)   This term describes federal, state, or local regulations, in any
combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing flood
loss and damage.
      FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures, which reduce or eliminate risk of flood
damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation
facilities, or structures with their contents.
      FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that shall be reserved in order to discharge the base flood (100-
year flood event) without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation
more than one foot.
      FREEBOARD. The height added to the base flood elevation (BFE) to account
for watershed development as well as limitations of the engineering
methodologies for the determination of flood elevations. The FREEBOARD plus the
base flood elevation establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, such as a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
      HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. A facility for the collection,
storage, processing, treatment, recycling, recovery, or disposal of hazardous
waste as defined in the state general statutes.
      HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
      HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
         (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places
(a listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
         (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
         (c)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks
in communities with a Certified Local Government (CLG Program); or
         (d)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a Certified Local Government
(CLG Program).
      INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT. Any nonresidential development that requires an
NPDES permit for an industrial discharge and/or requires the use or storage of
any hazardous material for the purpose of manufacturing, assembling, finishing,
cleaning, or developing any product or commodity.
      LANDFILL. A disposal facility or part of a disposal facility where waste
is placed in or on land and which is not a land treatment facility, a surface
impoundment, an injection well, a hazardous waste long-term storage facility,
or a surface storage facility in accordance with G.S. § 130A-290. For the
purpose of §§
153.260 through 153.262, this term does not include composting facilities.
      LANDFILL, DISCHARGING. A landfill which discharges treated leachate and
which requires a National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
permit.
      LOT. A parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by a main building or
group of main buildings and accessory building together with yards, open
spaces, lot width, and lot area is required.
      LOT, EXISTING (LOT OF RECORD). A lot which is part of a subdivision, a
plat of which has been recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds prior to
the adoption of §§
153.260 through 153.262, or a lot described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded prior to the adoption of §§
153.260 through 153.262.
      LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The elevation of the ground, sidewalk, or
patio slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion
of the building. For Zones AE and AO, use the natural grade elevation prior to
construction.
      LOWEST FLOOR. Lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage in an area other than
a basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that the
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of §§
153.245 through 153.248.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. For purposes of §§
153.245 through 153.248, a structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
      MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. For purposes of §§
153.245 through 153.248, a parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into
two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
      MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION, EXISTING. For purposes of §§
153.245 through 153.248, a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the
construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured
homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads) was completed before April 16,1990.
      MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot, established by
independent certified appraisal, replacement cost depreciated by age of
building and quality of construction (actual cash value), or adjusted tax
assessed values.
      MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the NFIP, the National Geodetic Vertical
Datum (NGVD) as corrected in 1929, the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) as
corrected in 1988, or other vertical control datum used as a reference for
establishing various elevations within the floodplain, to which base flood
elevations (BFEs) shown on a FIRM are referenced. Refer to each FIRM panel to
determine datum used.
      NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the “start of construction”
commenced on or after April 16, 1990 and includes any subsequent improvements
to the structures.
      NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR DEVELOPMENT. Any legally existing building or
development which fails to comply with the current provisions of §§
153.245 through 153.248.
      NONCONFORMING LOT OF RECORD. A lot described by a plat or a deed that was
recorded prior to the effective date of §§
153.260 through 153.262 (or the amendments to §§
153.260 through 153.262) that does not meet the minimum lot size or other
development requirements of §§
153.260 through 153.262.
      NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA. The channel of a river or other watercourse and
the adjacent land areas that shall be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one
foot as designated in the Flood Insurance Study report.
      NONRESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. All development other than residential
development, agriculture, and silviculture.
      PLAT. A map or plan of a parcel of land which is to be, or has been
subdivided.
      POST-FIRM. Construction or other development which started on or after
the effective date of the initial Flood Insurance Rate Map for the area.
      PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development which started before the
effective date of the initial Flood Insurance Rate Map for the area.
      PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
      PROTECTED AREA. The area adjoining and up stream of the critical area of
the Watershed IV (WS-IV). The boundaries of the PROTECTED AREA are defined as:
         (a)   Within five miles of and draining to the normal pool elevation
of the reservoir or to the ridge-line of the watershed; or
         (b)   Within ten miles upstream and draining to the intake located
directly in the stream or river or to the ridge-line of the watershed.
      PUBLIC NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or health of
an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons, or
unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any
navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle which is:
         (a)   Built on a single chassis;
         (b)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
         (c)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
         (d)   Not designed use as a permanent primary dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
      REFERENCE LEVEL. The portion of a structure or other development that
shall be compared to the regulatory flood protection elevation to determine
regulatory compliance. For structures within special flood hazard areas
designated as Zone A1-A30, AE, A, A99, or AO, the REFERENCE LEVEL is the top of
the lowest floor or bottom of lowest attendant utility including ductwork,
whichever is lower.
      REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (RFPE). The elevation, in relation
to mean sea level, to which the reference level of all structures and other
development located within special flood hazard areas shall be protected. Where
base flood elevations (BFEs) have been determined, this elevation shall be the
BFE plus two feet of freeboard. Where no BFE has been established, this
elevation shall be at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
      REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and county flood damage prevention regulations, or if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of this
chapter or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
      REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two or
more separate occasions during any ten-year period for which the cost of
repairs at the time of each flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25%
of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
      RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. Buildings for residence such as attached and
detached single-family dwellings, apartment complexes, condominiums,
townhouses, cottages, and their associated outbuildings such as garages,
storage buildings, gazebos, and customary home occupations.
      RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
      SALVAGE OR JUNK YARD. Any nonresidential property used for the storage,
collection, and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including but not
limited to vehicles, appliances, and related machinery.
      SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. For purposes of the regulations in §§
153.260 through 153.262, a site built structure, a modular structure to the
North Carolina State Building Code requirements, or a manufactured home built
to HUD requirements located on individual lots or within manufactured home
parks.
      SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35).
      SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36), any
place at which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill,
or any other method.
      SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a
1% or greater chance of being flooded in any given year as determined in §
153.246(B).
      START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the
date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or improvement was
within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START means the first placement
of permanent construction of a structure (including a manufactured home) on a
site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings, installation of piles,
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a substantial
improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building. Permanent
construction does not include:
         (a)   Land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling;
         (b)   The installation of streets and/or walkways;
         (c)   Excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations, or
the erection of temporary forms; and/or
         (d)   The installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as
garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure.
      STORMWATER CONTROL MEASURE. For the purpose of this chapter, a stormwater
control measure shall be any effort taken to aid in containing or controlling
existing, planned, or future drainage at a site, including but not limited to
retention ponds.
      STREET (ROAD). A right-of-way for vehicular traffic which affords the
principal means of access to abutting properties.
      SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm, or corporation who subdivides or develops
any land deemed to be a subdivision as defined by this chapter.
      SURFACE WATER. Surface water is present if the feature is shown on either
the most recent version of the soil survey map prepared by the Natural
Resources Conservation Service of the United States Department of Agriculture
or the most recent version of the 1:24,000 scale (7.5 minute) quadrangle
topographic maps prepared by the United States Geologic Survey (USGS).
      STRUCTURE, FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION. For purposes of the regulations in §§
153.245 through 153.248, includes but is not limited to a walled and roofed
building, a manufactured home, or a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground. For floodplain management purposes, principally above
ground means that at least 51% of the actual cash value of the structure is
above ground.
      STRUCTURE, WATER SUPPLY WATERSHED. Anything constructed or erected
including, but not limited to, buildings, which requires location on the land
or attachment to something having permanent location on the land.
      SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during
any one year period where the cost of restoring the structure to its condition
before damaged would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred. See definition of SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any one year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
         (a)   Any correction of existing violations of state or county health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
County Building Code Administrator and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
      TOXIC SUBSTANCE. Any substance or combination of substances (including
disease causing agents), which after discharge and upon exposure, ingestion,
inhalation, or assimilation into any organism, either directly from the
environment or indirectly by ingestion through food chains, has the potential
to cause death, disease, behavioral abnormalities, cancer, genetic mutations,
physiological malfunctions (including malfunctions or suppression in
reproduction or growth), or physical deformities in the organisms or their off
spring, or other adverse health effects.
      VARIANCE. For purposes of the regulations in §§
153.260 through
153.262, a permission to develop or use property granted by the Watershed
Review Board relaxing or waiving a water supply watershed management
requirement adopted by the Environmental Management Commission that is
incorporated into this chapter.
         (a)   VARIANCE, MAJOR. For purposes of the regulations in §§
153.260 through
153.262, a variance from the minimum state wide water supply watershed
protection rules that results in any one or more of the following:
            1.   The relaxation, by a factor of more than 10%, of any
management requirement that takes the form of a numerical standard; and/or
            2.   Petitions to increase built upon percentage greater than 10%.
         (b)   VARIANCE, MINOR. For purposes of the regulations in §§
153.260 through
153.262, petitions for the reduction of any standard by a factor of less than
10%, including residential density or built upon percentage.
      VIOLATION. For purposes of the regulations in §§
153.245 through
153.248, the failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant
with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure or other
development without the elevation certificate, other certifications, or other
evidence of compliance required in §
153.247 and §
153.248 is presumed to be in VIOLATION until the time as that documentation is
provided.
      WATER DEPENDENT STRUCTURE. Any structure for which the use requires
access to, proximity to, or citing within surface waters to fulfill its basic
purpose, such as boat ramps, boat houses, docks, and bulkheads. Ancillary
facilities such as restaurants, outlets for boat supplies, parking lots, and
commercial boat storage areas are not water dependent structures.
      WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to mean sea level
(existing grade in case of Zone AO), of floods of various magnitudes and
frequencies in the floodplains of riverine areas.
      WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
      WATERSHED. The entire land area contributing surface drainage to a
specific point (e.g., the water supply intake.)
      WATERSHED ADMINISTRATOR. An official or designated person of the county
that is responsible for the administration and enforcement of the regulations
in §§
153.260 through
153.262.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.025 CERTIFICATIONS.
   (A)   General certifications. Certifications listed herein include the
certification title only. The text of all certifications listed are available
at the Planning Department offices. This list is provided as a reference only
and may not include all certifications required as part of development or
subdivision submittals.
      (1)   Certification of ownership, dedication, and jurisdiction;
      (2)   Certificate of survey and accuracy;
      (3)   In accordance with the Manual of Practice for Land Surveying in
North Carolina. On the face of each map prepared for recordation there shall
appear a certificate acknowledged before an officer authorized to take
acknowledgments and executed by the person making the survey or map including
deeds and any recorded data shown thereon. The certificate shall include a
statement of error or closure calculated by latitudes and departures. Any lines
on the map which were not actually surveyed shall be clearly indicated on the
map and a statement included in the certificate revealing the source of
information;
      (4)   Certificate of registration by Register of Deeds; and
      (5)   Certificate of notary.
   (B)   Subdivision certifications.
      (1)   Certification of minor subdivision approval;
      (2)   Certification of site plan approval by the Development Review
Board;
      (3)   Certification of preliminary subdivision approval by the
Development Review Board;
      (4)   Certificate of final subdivision approval by the Development Review
Board;
      (5)   Certificate of improvements maintenance; and
      (6)   Public right-of-way plat dedication certification.
   (C)   Other certifications.
      (1)   Certification of exempt plat approval;
      (2)   Certification of site plan approval; and
      (3)   Stormwater certification.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.026 MILITARY CORRIDOR OVERLAY DISTRICT DEFINITIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS.
   The following terms have the following meanings for purposes of enforcing
and interpreting Military Corridor Overlay Zone.
   AIRCRAFT NOISE ZONES. Areas that may be affected by noise associated with
current aircraft operations and training, as set forth in the ICUZ Study. Pope
Army Airfield Aircraft Noise Zones are depicted on the Official Zoning Map.
   AIRPORT OBSTRUCTION OR INTERFERENCE. Any structure, object, or use of land
the Fort Bragg Commanding General determines impedes operations at Fort Bragg,
in any manner described below.
      (1)   A potential incompatible development, or its anticipated impacts,
protrude above the planes or surfaces as contained in Title 14, Part 77 CFR
[Code of Federal Regulations] or above the established floor elevation of the
aviation training routes associated with Fort Bragg;
      (2)   A potential incompatible development, or its anticipated impacts,
interfere with pilot vision, communication, radar, or otherwise interferes with
the safe and effective operation of military aircraft:
      (3)   Structures are proposed within ten feet of approach/departure or
transitional surfaces or within ten feet of the established floor elevation of
the aviation training routes associated with Fort Bragg;
      (4)   The potential incompatible development produces steam, dust, smoke,
light emissions, glare, or other visual impairments; has explosive
characteristics; or otherwise interferes with pilot vision or the operation of
military aircraft;
      (5)   The potential incompatible development produces electrical
emissions that interfere with navigation equipment or radio communication
between aircraft, Fort Bragg, or other air traffic control facility; or
      (6)   The potential incompatible development attracts wildlife into a
Department of Defense Airport Imaginary Surface, pursuant to 14 C.F.R. 77.21,
or into an aviation training route, which the Fort Bragg Commanding General
determines may create a hazard to military operations.
   AIRSPACE PROTECTION AREA. Lands within the zoning jurisdiction of Harnett
County, situated beneath the Imaginary Surfaces associated with Pope Army
Airfield or that are beneath or within one mile of Fort Bragg's documented
aviation corridors or aviation routes. The Airspace Protection Area is
designated on the Official Zoning Map.
   FORT BRAGG COORDINATING OFFICIAL. The Executive Director of the Regional
Land Use Advisory Commission (RLUAC) who acts as a liaison with Harnett County
for the purpose of coordination under the provisions of this section. The Fort
Bragg Coordinating Official reviews and, as applicable, provides comments
related to potential incompatible development in Harnett County and as
otherwise required by this section, the RLUAC Coordination Agreement, or state
law.
   HARNETT COUNTY. The Harnett County Board of Commissioners or an
administrative designee of the Board of Commissioners.
   HARNETT COUNTY COORDINATING OFFICIAL. The Manager of Planning Services in
the Harnett County Development Services Department Planning Division or the
Manager of Planning Services in the Harnett County Development Services
Department Planning Division designee.
   IMAGINARY SURFACES. The Imaginary Surfaces associated with Pope Army
Airfield, which include all of the land within the airspace depicted on the
Official Zoning Map.
   INSTALLATION COMPATIBLE USE ZONE (ICUZ) STUDY. The most recent ICUZ Study or
Studies, which identifies the military impacts and Military Influence Areas
associated with Fort Bragg and Camp Mackall and identifies types of development
considered incompatible with these impacts. As of this section's original
adoption date, the most recent ICUZ Study for Fort Bragg and Camp Mackall was
titled "Fort Bragg Installation Compatible Use Zone Study," dated September
2017.
   MILITARY INFLUENCE AREAS. Those areas of land within the zoning jurisdiction
of Harnett County that may experience the impacts of military training
including Aircraft Noise Zones, the Airspace Protection Area, and lands within
five miles of the installations (for state-mandated coordination).
   RENEWABLE ENERGY FACILITY. A facility, other than a hydroelectric power
facility with a generation capacity of more than ten megawatts, that either:
      (1)   Generates electric power by the use of a renewable energy resource.
      (2)   Generates useful, measurable combined heat and power derived from a
renewable energy resource.
      (3)   Is a solar thermal energy facility.
   RLUAC COORDINATION AGREEMENT. A cooperative agreement, or agreements,
between Harnett County, other local governments, and Fort Bragg. The RLUAC
Coordination Agreement includes protocol for compliance with the requirements
of this section and state law, as well as other cooperative efforts between the
parties to the agreement, and may be amended from time to time.
   WIND ENERGY FACILITY. A structure of any height that converts wind energy
into electricity or other energy through the use of one or more turbines or
other structures utilizing propeller blades.
(Res. 2021-35, passed 10-18-2021)
NONCONFORMITIES
§ 153.040 GENERAL.
   Except as specifically provided in this subchapter, it shall be unlawful for
any person to engage in any activity that causes an increase in the extent of
nonconformity of a nonconforming situation.
   (A)   A nonconforming use may be extended throughout any portion of a
completed building that, when the use was made nonconforming by this chapter,
or adoption of ordinances repealed by this chapter, was manifestly designed or
arranged to accommodate these uses. However, a nonconforming use may not be
extended to additional buildings or to land outside the original buildings.
   (B)   A nonconforming use of open land may not be extended to cover more
land than was occupied by that use when it became nonconforming, except that a
use that involves the removal of natural materials from the lot (e.g., a
quarry) may be expanded to the boundaries of the lot where the use was
established at the time it became nonconforming, if 10% or more of the earth
products had already been removed at such time that zoning was adopted at the
same location.
   (C)   Where a nonconforming situation exists, the equipment or processes may
be changed if these or similar changes amount only to changes in degree or
activity rather than changes in kind and no violations of other sections of
this chapter occur.
   (D)   Physical alteration of structures or the placement of new structures
on open land are unlawful if they result in:
      (1)   An increase in the total amount of space devoted to a nonconforming
use; and/or
      (2)   Greater nonconformity with respect to dimensional restrictions such
as yard requirements, height limitations, or density requirements.
   (E)   Minor repairs to and routine maintenance of property where
nonconforming situations exist are permitted and encouraged.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.041 NONCONFORMING LOT OF RECORD.
   A vacant lot of record established prior to the effective date of this
chapter, or adoption of ordinances repealed by this chapter, which does not
conform to the minimum lot requirement of the district in which it is located
may be used as a building site for a use permitted within that district
provided:
   (A)   All construction and the location of the building(s) shall be in
accordance with the applicable front, side, and rear yard requirements of the
zoning district in which located;
   (B)   The existing or proposed water and sewage disposal system is approved
by the county’s Health Department and the county’s Department of Public
Utilities, as appropriate; and
   (C)   All uses serviced by a private septic tank system shall have a minimum
lot area of not less than 15,000 square feet of suitable or provisionally
suitable soil, except in the case of a manufactured home park.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.042 NONCONFORMING USE.
   The construction or erection of any nonconforming use may be completed,
provided:
   (A)   All construction is done pursuant to a validly issued building permit;
and/or
   (B)   If a minor subdivision has been approved and improvements completed
(i.e., streets, water, and/or sewer) or a major subdivision has been approved
and a multi-section manufactured home has been permitted and occupied on one or
more lots in the subdivision prior to adoption of zoning at the same location,
then the owner of a lot in any such subdivision may place a multi-section
manufactured home on any other lot in the subdivision for residential purposes,
provided all requirements of this chapter are met regarding front, side, and
rear yard setbacks, and provided the water and sewage disposal systems have
been approved by the county’s Health Department and the county’s Department of
Public Utilities, as appropriate.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.043 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Any structure used for single-family residential purposes and maintained as
a nonconforming use or structure may be enlarged or replaced with a similar
structure of a larger size, so long as the enlargement or replacement does not
create new nonconformities or increase the extent of existing nonconformities
with respect to yard size and setback requirements. In particular, a
manufactured home may be replaced with a larger manufactured home, and a
single-wide manufactured home may be replaced with a double-wide multi-section
manufactured home. This paragraph is subject to the limitations stated in §
153.047. A structure that is nonconforming in any respect or a structure that
is used in a nonconforming manner may be reconstructed or replaced if partially
or totally destroyed, subject to the following restrictions.
   (A)   Residential structure nonconformities. A residential structure that is
nonconforming in any respect and is partially or totally destroyed may be
reconstructed or replaced, subject to the following restrictions:
      (1)   The replacement residential structure is similar in construction
and design to the former structure. Provided however, that a stick built,
single-family residence may only be replaced with another stick built, single-
family residence and a manufactured home may be replaced with another
manufactured home or a stick built, single-family residence;
      (2)   A letter granting approval for the replacement or reconstruction of
a damaged residential structure with a similar residential structure is
obtained from the Administrator within 12 months from the time the damage or
destruction took place; and
      (3)   Notwithstanding §
153.040(D), a larger, single-family residential structure may be constructed in
place of a smaller one and larger manufactured home intended for residential
use may replace a smaller one. The reconstructed building may not be more
nonconforming with respect to dimensional restrictions such as yard
requirements, height limitations, or density requirements, and such dimensional
nonconformities shall be eliminated if that can reasonably be accomplished
without unduly burdening the reconstruction process or limiting the right to
continue the nonconforming use of such building.
   (B)   Nonresidential structure nonconformities. Any other structure that is
nonconforming in any respect or a structure that is used in a nonconforming
manner may be reconstructed or replaced if partially or totally destroyed,
subject to the following restrictions:
      (1)   A land use and zoning permit is obtained from the Administrator
within 12 months from the time the damage or destruction took place;
      (2)   The total amount of space devoted to a nonconforming use may not be
increased; and
      (3)   The reconstructed building may not be more nonconforming with
respect to dimensional restrictions such as yard requirements, height
limitations, or density requirements, and such dimensional nonconformities
shall be eliminated if that can reasonably be accomplished without unduly
burdening the reconstruction process or limiting the right to continue the
nonconforming use of such building.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.044 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   All nonconforming signs existing on the effective date of adoption of zoning
at the location of the sign may remain in place subject to the following
requirements.
   (A)   Continuation of nonconforming signs.
      (1)   Existing nonconforming signs. All existing nonconforming signs
shall adhere to the following regulations (excluding outdoor advertising/
billboard signs).
         (a)   No nonconforming sign shall have any changes made in the words
or symbols used or the message displayed on the sign unless the sign is
specifically designed for periodic change of message (for example, billboards).
However, this chapter shall not prohibit the normal maintenance of signs to
keep them properly maintained.
         (b)   No nonconforming sign shall be structurally altered so as to
change the shape, size, type, or design of the sign, nor shall any
nonconforming sign be relocated.
         (c)   The addition of lighting or illumination to existing
nonconforming signs is specifically prohibited as reasonable maintenance;
however, such lighting may be permanently removed from such sign structure.
         (d)   No nonconforming sign shall be allowed to remain after the
activity, business, or use to which it was related has been discontinued.
      (2)   Maintenance and repair of nonconforming signs.
         (a)   Nonconforming signs shall be allowed to perform reasonable
repair and maintenance. The following activities are considered to be
reasonable repair and maintenance (No building permit shall be needed to make
the following repairs with exception of divisions (A)(2)(a)3. and (A)(2)(a)5.
below):
            1.   Change of message or copy on the sign face;
            2.   Replacement of border and trim, stringer, or panel, with like
material;
            3.   Repair and replacement of a pole(s), with like material;
            4.   Alterations of the dimensions of painted bulletins incidental
to copy change; and
            5.   Any net decrease in the outside dimensions of the advertising
copy portion of the sign; but if the sign face or faces are reduced they may
not thereafter be increased.
         (b)   A nonconforming sign may continue as long as it is not
abandoned, destroyed, discontinued, or significantly damaged as defined by this
chapter. When the combined damage to the face and support poles appears to be
significantly damaged the sign owner shall request the county’s Planning
Department to review the damaged sign, including salvageable sign components,
prior to the repairs being made. Should the sign owner perform repairs without
notification to the Planning Department, the permit may be revoked or the sign
shall be removed. To determine the percent of damage to the sign structure, the
only components to be used to calculate this value are the sign face and
support pole(s). The percent damage shall be calculated by dividing the
unsalvageable sign components by the original sign structure component
quantities, using the following criteria.
            1.   Signs on wooden poles. The percentage of damage attributable
to poles shall be 50% and the percentage of damage attributable to sign face
shall be 50%.
            2.   Signs on steel poles, beams, or monopoles. The percentage of
damage attributable to poles shall be 80% and the percentage of damage
attributable to sign face shall be 20%.
      (3)   Nonconforming outdoor advertising/billboard signs. 
         (a)   As per G.S. § 136-133.2, existing nonconforming outdoor
advertising signs shall be allowed to be repaired or reconstructed so long as
the square footage of its advertising surface area is not increased. This also
includes the changing of an existing multipole outdoor advertising structure to
a new monopole structure.
         (b)   All nonconforming outdoor advertising signs that are required to
be permitted by NCDOT shall maintain all required permits in good standing for
the life of the nonconformity. If at any point NCDOT revokes these permits, the
nonconforming sign shall come into compliance with current regulations or be
removed.
   (B)   Removal of nonconforming signs. Upon failure to comply with any of the
above requirements, the Administrator shall cause the removal of any
nonconforming signs as hereafter provided. The Administrator or his or her
designated agent shall give the owner of the nonconforming sign notice of the
violation. Notice to the owner or the occupant of the premises on which the
sign is located shall be sufficient.
   (C)   Exception. Relocation of existing, nonconforming outdoor advertising
signs located within the Highway Corridor Overlay (HCO) District shall be
exempt from the regulations set forth in this subchapter, only as provided
below:
      (1)   Relocation of existing, nonconforming outdoor advertising signs
shall be permitted in cases where the location of the sign is preventing the
location of a new business;
      (2)   The property on which the outdoor advertising sign is currently
located and the proposed new location shall be under the same ownership;
      (3)   Relocated outdoor advertising signs shall meet §
153.159(I)(1) through (I)(4);
      (4)   In regards to spacing requirements, the proposed outdoor
advertising sign shall comply with the most recent version of NCDOT’s
Regulations for the Control of Outdoor Advertising in North Carolina; and
      (5)   Relocation of the outdoor advertising sign shall not be permitted
until the first permit is issued on the new business.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 2-17-2014)
§ 153.045 NONCONFORMING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Existing, unpermitted manufactured home parks. The purpose of this
section is to provide for the permitting of previously unpermitted,
nonconforming manufactured home parks, existing prior to September 15, 2003.
      (1)   Eligibility.
         (a)   Application shall be for a minimum of four manufactured homes.
         (b)   Previously permitted manufactured home parks that are now
unpermitted shall not be eligible for permitting under this section.
         (c)   Manufactured home subdivisions, unless entirely included under
single ownership, are not eligible.
         (d)   Application shall be for either one parcel of land or two or
more contiguous parcels. In no case shall two or more noncontiguous parcels be
considered eligible.
      (2)   Permitting procedure.
         (a)   A complete application shall be submitted to the county’s
Planning Department. The Planning Department shall establish criteria for a
complete application. All requirements shall be submitted with the application.
         (b)   Upon receipt of a complete application, the Administrator, or
his or her designee, shall conduct a manufactured home park inspection. All
requirements included in the “Manufactured Home Park Inspection Checklist”,
available at the Planning Department Office, shall be met.
         (c)   The Administrator shall cause to be issued a provisional
certificate of zoning compliance for the application following a passing
manufactured home park inspection.
      (3)   Initial zoning verification requirements.
         (a)   Manufactured home parks permitted under the provisions included
in this section shall meet the requirements set forth in §§
153.115(F)(2) and 153.158. Parks permitted under these provisions shall be
granted a probationary certificate of zoning compliance, valid for a period of
12 months.
         (b)   At the conclusion of a 12-month period, a manufactured home park
inspection shall be performed. Passing manufactured home parks shall be issued
a standard certificate of zoning compliance. Failure to meet the requirements
shall result in the forfeiture of the certificate of zoning compliance.
   (B)   Existing, permitted manufactured home parks. The purpose of this
division (B) is to regulate permitted, nonconforming manufactured home parks.
         (1)   Parks existing prior to September 15, 2003. Manufactured home
parks existing prior to September 15, 2003 shall, within 12 months, be required
to comply with §§
153.061(I), 153.106, and 153.115(F)(3).
         (2)   Alteration and expansion of existing parks. Existing parks shall
not be allowed to alter or expand the number of lots or acreage unless the park
receives approval as required by §
153.064, and complies with the requirements set forth in this chapter.
         (3)   Manufactured homes. After September 15, 2003, no manufactured
home built prior to July 15, 1976 will be allowed to locate or move within a
manufactured home park or within the jurisdiction of the county.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 5-18-2015)
§ 153.046 NONCONFORMING COMMUNICATIONS TOWERS.
   Communications towers existing prior to the adoption of the Communications
Tower Ordinance on December 4, 2000 or permitted prior to the adoption of this
chapter shall be allowed to continue to operate provided they met the
requirements set forth by the county at the time of final inspection; not
including any communications towers that are currently in violation of this
chapter and pre-existing Communications Tower Ordinance (see Chapter 154) of
the county.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.047 CONTINUATION OF NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS.
   (A)   General. For purposes of determining whether a right to continue a
nonconforming situation is lost pursuant to this subchapter, all of the
buildings, activities, and operations maintained on a lot are generally to be
considered as a whole. For example, the failure to rent one space in a
nonconforming manufactured home park for 180 days shall not result in the loss
of the right to rent that space thereafter so long as the manufactured home
park as a whole is continuously maintained and has a valid certificate of
zoning compliance. But if a nonconforming use is maintained in conjunction with
a conforming use, discontinuance of a nonconforming use for the required period
shall terminate the right to maintain it thereafter. And so, if a manufactured
home is used as a nonconforming use on a residential lot where a conforming
residential structure also is located, removal of that manufactured home for
180 days terminates the right to replace it.
   (B)   Change of nonconforming uses. Any nonconforming use may be changed to
a conforming use, or with the approval of the Board of Adjustment, to any use
more in character with the uses permitted in the district. In permitting such
changes, the Board of Adjustment may require appropriate conditions and
safeguards in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Abandonment and discontinuance of nonconforming situations.
      (1)   When a nonconforming use is discontinued for a consecutive period
of 180 days, the property involved may thereafter be used only for conforming
purposes.
      (2)   If a structure or operation is vacant or discontinued at the
effective date of this chapter, the 180-day period, for purposes of this
subchapter, shall begin at such date. In cases when a manufactured home is
declared abandoned by the Administrator, such 180-day period shall expire upon
official date of the declaration.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 5-18-2015)
DEVELOPMENT AND SUBDIVISION REVIEW, PERMITTING, AND APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.060 COMMON REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   The Board of Commissioners shall set a fee or fees, payable to the county,
to be paid by the applicant/owner(s) to cover the necessary processing,
administrative, review, advertising, if applicable, and related costs of all
permits and plan reviews. The set fee shall be posted in the county’s Planning
Department Office.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.061 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Land use and zoning permit. After the adoption of this chapter, it
shall be unlawful to establish, move, or alter any use other than a bona fide
farm or obtain a permit from the Health Department unless a land use and zoning
permit is applied for and issued by the Administrator. The Administrator shall
maintain a record of all land use and zoning permits. Failure to obtain a land
use and zoning permit shall be a violation of this chapter and punishable under
§
153.999. In no case shall a land use and zoning permit be issued for a
building, or portion therefor, which is located on a parcel of land that is
currently in violation of any provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   Application for land use and zoning permits. Owner(s) or owner’s
agent shall submit application for a land use and zoning permit and all
information that is necessary for staff to determine if all requirements of
this chapter are being met. The land use and zoning permit application shall
include the following:
         (a)   Scale drawing showing the information listed below. A surveyed
drawing is required for all lots ten acres or less:
            1.   The actual dimensions and shape of the lot to be built upon;
            2.   The exact sizes and locations on the lot of buildings already
existing, if any; and
            3.   The location and dimensions of the proposed building or
alteration.
         (b)   Existing or proposed uses of the building and land;
         (c)   The number of families or rental units the building is designed
to accommodate;
         (d)   Conditions existing on the lot, and such;
         (e)   Other matters and/or information as may be necessary to
determine conformity with, and provide for the enforcement of this chapter;
         (f)   Other information as may be required by the Administrator; and
         (g)   No deed, conditional sales agreement, or instrument of transfer
copy shall be required of any applicant who is making application for property
which is the subject of intestate succession.
      (2) Distribution of application. One copy of the submittal materials
shall be kept by the Administrator after he or she shall have marked such copy
either as approved or disapproved and issued a land use and zoning permit. The
second copy of the plans, similarly marked, shall be retained by the Department
of Public Health.
      (3)   Construction and use to be as stated on land use and zoning permit.
Land use and zoning permits issued on the basis of plans and applications
approved by the Administrator authorize only the use, arrangement, and
construction set forth in such approved plans and applications. Use,
arrangement, or construction at variance with that authorized shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter and punishable as provided by §
153.999.
      (4)   Expiration of land use and zoning permit. If the work described in
any land use and zoning permit has not begun within 365 days from the date of
issuance thereof, the permit shall expire. If after commencement, the work is
discontinued for any period of 365 days, the permit shall immediately expire
and further work as described in the expired permit shall not proceed unless
and until a new land use and zoning permit has been obtained.
      (5)   Right of appeal. If a land use and zoning permit is denied, the
applicant may appeal within 30 days of the action of the Administrator to the
Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   Temporary land use and zoning permit.
      (1)   Temporary events. A temporary land use and zoning permit may also
be issued for temporary events, such as bazaars, carnivals, religious meetings,
or seasonal special events, provided that such events shall comply with the
requirements for such in §§
153.105 through 153.115.
      (2)   Temporary recreational vehicles.
         (a)   A temporary land use and zoning permit for a recreational
vehicle may be issued for a period of 180 days, renewable for an additional 30
days from staff, or longer as approved by the Board of Adjustment if it is
deemed reasonable to allow completion of work, when an existing or proposed
primary or secondary residence or commercial facility is deemed uninhabitable
due to renovation or construction. Application shall be made for a temporary
land use and zoning permit before the use is initiated and not prior to
application for a building permit for construction of the primary or secondary
residence or commercial facility. The temporary land use and zoning permit
shall expire 30 days after issuance of a certificate of occupancy (CO) for the
primary or secondary residence or commercial facility.
         (b)   One recreational vehicle or travel trailer may be parked on the
rear or side yard of a lot where a religious assembly structure is located and
the recreational vehicle or travel trailer can be used as living quarters by
pastors, evangelists, missionaries, gospel singing groups, or church workers
affiliated with the religious assembly structure.
   (C)   Certificate of occupancy (CO) and building permits.
      (1)   No new building or part thereof shall be occupied, no addition or
enlargement of any existing building shall be occupied, no existing building
after being altered or moved shall be occupied, and no change of occupancy
shall be made in any existing building or part thereof, until the Building
Inspector has issued a certificate of occupancy. The change of occupancy
provision shall not apply to rooms intended for transient rental or to re-
rental of individual apartment rentals.
      (2)   Prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy on all manufactured
homes and nonresidential development, a zoning compliance inspection shall be
completed under the direction of the Administrator of this chapter. In no case
shall a building or part thereof be considered compliant with zoning
regulations if the Administrator is aware that the structure or property is not
in compliance with any applicable state or federal regulations.
      (3)   A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued for a portion or
portions of a building which may safely be occupied prior to final completion
and occupancy of the entire building.
      (4)   Application for a certificate of occupancy may be made by the owner
(s) or owners’ agent after all final inspections have been made for new
buildings, or in the case of existing buildings, after supplying the
information and data necessary to determine compliance with this chapter.
      (5)   In no case shall a certificate of occupancy be issued for a
building, or portion therefore, which is located on a parcel of land that is
currently in violation of any provisions of this chapter.
      (6)   In no case shall a building permit be issued for a parcel, or
portion therefor, which has been illegally subdivided, pursuant to G.S. Chapter
160D.
   (D)   Sign permit. 
      (1)   Permit issuance. The Administrator shall issue a permit for the
erection, repair, replacement, or construction of outdoor advertising or
business sign which meets the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Filing procedure. Applications for permits to erect, hang, place,
paint, replace, repair, or alter the structure of an outdoor advertising or
business sign shall be submitted on forms obtainable from the Administrator.
Each application shall be accompanied by a plan showing the following:
         (a)   Outdoor advertising signs. In order for an application to be
considered complete the applicant shall submit five copies of a site plan drawn
to scale and certified by a professional state land surveyor or engineer. The
site plan for new signs or the repair of existing signs shall contain, at a
minimum, those items indicated in the sign site plan requirements of this
chapter.
         (b)   Business signs. In order for an application to be considered
complete the applicant shall submit five copies of a sign site plan drawn to
scale. The site plan for all new, damaged, conforming, and nonconforming signs
shall contain, at a minimum, those items indicated in the sign site plan
requirements of this chapter.
         (c)   Expiration of an approved sign site plan.
            1.   Any sign permit that has received final approval shall be
valid for a period of 365 days from the date the plan received approval from
the Administrator. During this time, the sign shall be constructed as approved.
Once this period has passed, the site plan shall be considered null and void.
In the situation where the sign is considered to be conforming the permit may
be renewed after the Planning Department has determined that the site is still
a conforming site. Each application for renewal shall constitute a new review
of the application and all pertinent fees shall apply.
            2.   A nonconforming sign shall not be allowed to be renewed;
therefore, once a nonconforming site plan or permit has expired, then the site
plan or permit shall be considered to be null and void and the applicant shall
repeat the filling process and comply with all regulations for the placement of
a conforming sign.
   (E)   Watersupply watershed development permit. Except for a single-family
residence constructed on a lot deeded prior to January 1, 1994, no permit
required under the North Carolina State Building Code shall be issued for any
activity for which a watershed protection permit is required until that permit
has been issued.
      (1)   Watershed protection permit. For purposes of this chapter, the land
use and zoning permit shall serve as the watershed protection permit.
         (a)   Except where a single-family residence is constructed on a lot
deeded prior to the effective date of this chapter, no building or built-upon
area shall be erected, moved, enlarged, or structurally altered, nor shall any
building permit be issued nor shall any change in the use of any building or
land be made until a watershed protection permit has been issued by the
Administrator. No watershed protection permit shall be issued except in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   Watershed protection permit applications shall be filed with the
Administrator. The application shall include a completed application form and
any supporting documentation deemed necessary by the Administrator.
         (c)   Prior to issuance of a watershed protection permit, the
Administrator may consult with qualified personnel for assistance to determine
if the application meets the requirements of this chapter.
         (d)   A watershed protection permit shall expire if a building permit
or watershed occupancy permit for such use is not obtained by the applicant
within 12 months from the date of issuance.
      (2)   Watershed protection occupancy permit. For purposes of this
chapter, the required zoning inspection, performed under the direction of the
Administrator, and certificate of occupancy shall serve as the watershed
protection occupancy permit.
         (a)   The Administrator shall issue a watershed protection occupancy
permit certifying that all requirements of this chapter have been met prior to
the occupancy or use of a building hereafter erected, altered, or moved and/or
prior to the change of use of any building or land.
         (b)   A watershed protection occupancy permit, either for the whole or
part of a building, shall be applied for coincident with the application for a
watershed protection permit and shall be issued or denied within ten days after
the erection or structural alterations of the building.
         (c)   When only a change in use of land or existing building occurs,
the Administrator shall issue a watershed protection occupancy permit
certifying that all requirements of this chapter have been met coincident with
the watershed protection permit.
         (d)   If the watershed protection occupancy permit is denied, the
Administrator shall notify the applicant in writing stating the reasons for
denial.
         (e)   No building or structure which has been erected, moved, or
structurally altered may be occupied until the Administrator has approved and
issued a watershed protection occupancy permit.
      (3)   Special nonresidential intensity allocation. A special
nonresidential intensity allocation (SNIA) may be permitted for nonresidential
uses. The county’s Watershed Review Board is authorized to approve SNIAs as
consistent with the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   Floodplain permit. A floodplain development permit shall be required
in conformance with the provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of
any development activities within special flood hazard areas as determined in §
153.246(B).
      (1)   Application for floodplain development permit. Application for a
floodplain development permit shall be made to the Administrator prior to any
development activities located within special flood hazard areas. The following
items shall be presented to the Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
         (a)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
            1.   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area
of development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
            2.   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map, as determined in §
153.246(B), or a statement that the entire lot is within the special flood
hazard area;
            3.   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
153.246(B);
            4.   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in §
153.246(B);
            5.   The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in:
               a.   Section 153.246(B);
               b.   Sections 153.246(C)(11) and 153.246(C)(12); or
               c.   Section 153.248(C).
            6.   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
            7.   Certification of the plot plan by a professional state land
surveyor or engineer.
         (b)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development
within a special flood hazard area including, but not limited to:
            1.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed
reference level (including basement) of all structures;
            2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure in Zone AE, A, or AO will be floodproofed; and
            3.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
         (c)   If floodproofing, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form 81-65)
along with detailed back-up computations and operational plans that specify the
location on a FIRM panel of flood proofing measures, the entity responsible for
transportation and installation according to the design within the warning time
available, and maintenance of floodproofing measures assuring their
effectiveness when installed. Floodproofing certificate and back-up
computations and operational plans shall be certified by a professional state
engineer or architect to ensure that the nonresidential floodproofed
development will meet the floodproofing criteria in §
153.248(B)(2).
         (d)   A foundation plan drawn to scale which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met. These details include but are not limited to:
            1.   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
            2.   Openings to facilitate equalization of hydrostatic flood
forces on walls in accordance with §
153.248(B)(4) when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AO,
AE, and A1-30.
         (e)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the regulatory flood
protection elevation.
         (f)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
         (g)   Copies of all other local, state, and federal permits required
prior to floodplain development permit issuance (wetlands, endangered species,
erosion and sedimentation control, stream and riparian buffers, mining, and the
like).
         (h)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure §
153.248(B)(6) and §
153.246(B)(7) are met.
         (i)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
      (2)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall
include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   A description of the development to be permitted under the
floodplain development permit;
         (b)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development per available data specified in §
153.246(B);
         (c)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities;
         (d)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities;
         (e)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines;
         (f)   A statement that no fill material shall encroach into the
floodway or non-encroachment area of any watercourse, as applicable; and
         (g)   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AO, AE, or A1-
30.
   (G)   Communications tower permit.
      (1)   Permit (Level I). The permit issued by the Administrator as
designated by this chapter, to an individual, corporation, partnership, or
other entity to engage in the creation of amateur radio tower.
      (2)   Permit (Level II). The permit issued by the Administrator as
designated by this chapter to an individual, corporation, partnership, or other
entity to engage in co-location, attached antennas, antenna element
replacements, tower mitigation, or new concealed towers, excluding amateur
radio towers.
      (3)   Permit (Level III). The special use permit issued by the
Administrator (after evidentiary hearing and approval by the Board of
Adjustment) as designated by this chapter, to an individual, corporation,
partnership, or other entity to engage in the creation of new towers, excluding
amateur radio towers.
      (4)   Permit (Level IV). The special use permit issued by the
Administrator (after evidentiary hearing and approval by the Board of
Adjustment) as designated by this chapter, to an individual, corporation,
partnership, or other entity to engage in the creation of new towers,
specifically broadcast facilities.
      (5)   Permit level requirements table.
 
 
Permit Level Issued by     Permit Type Use
I            Administrator P           Amateur radio no greater than 50 feet in
                                       height
                                       Co-location, attached antennas,
II           Administrator P           replacement and mitigation, and new
                                       concealed towers
III          BOA           C           New non-concealed towers
IV           BOA           C           Broadcast facilities
P- Permitted by right
C- Permitted conditionally
BOA- Board of Adjustment
 
      (6)   Supplemental review. The county reserves the right to require a
supplemental review for any permit (Level I, II, III, or IV) subject to the
following.
         (a)   Where due to the complexity of the methodology or analysis
required to review an application for a permit (Level I, II, III or IV)
facility, the county may require the applicant to pay for a technical review by
a third party expert, the costs of which shall be borne by the applicant and be
in addition to other applicable fees. Schedules of current fees are listed in
the county’s Fee Schedule.
         (b)   Based on the results of the expert review, the approving
authority may require changes to the applicant’s application or submittals.
         (c)   The supplemental review may address any or all of the following:
            1.   The accuracy and completeness of the application and any
accompanying documentation;
            2.   The applicability of analysis techniques and methodologies;
            3.   The validity of conclusions reached;
            4.   Whether the proposed communications facility complies with the
applicable approval criteria set forth in these codes; and/or
            5.   Other items deemed by the county to be relevant to determining
whether a proposed communications facility complies with the provisions of
these codes.
   (H)   Special use permit. The development and execution of this chapter is
based on the division of the county into districts, within which the use of
land and buildings and the bulk and location of buildings and structures in
relation to the land are substantially uniform. It is recognized, however, that
there are some land uses which are basically in keeping with the intent and
purposes of the district, but which may have an impact on the area around them
which can only be determined by review of the specific proposal. These uses may
be established, under certain conditions and with proper controls, in such a
manner as to minimize any adverse effects. In order to ensure that these uses,
in their proposed locations, would be compatible with surrounding development
and in keeping with the purposes of the district in which they are located,
their establishment shall not be as a matter of right, but only after review
and approval of a special use permit as hereinafter provided.
      (1)   Initiation of special use permit. Any person having freehold
interest in land, or a possessory interest entitled to exclusive possession, or
a contractual interest which may become a freehold interest or an exclusive
possessory interest, and which is specifically enforceable, may file an
application to use such land for one or more of the special uses provided for
in this chapter in the zoning district in which the land is located.
      (2)   Application for special use permit. Application for special use
permits, signed by the applicant and property owner, shall be presented to the
Administrator. Each application shall contain or be accompanied by such legal
descriptions, maps, plans, and other information so as to completely describe
the proposed use and existing conditions. Special use permit applications shall
include information as to sign type and placement, if applicable. The
application shall be forwarded to the county’s Board of Adjustment for review
at its next available meeting, as determined by the application submittal
schedule.
      (3)   Compliance with other codes.
         (a)   Granting of a special use permit does not exempt the applicant
from complying with all of the requirements of building codes and other
ordinances.
         (b)   In cases where a special use permit is applied for as a means to
resolve a violation of this chapter, the use shall be ceased at notice of
violation and until full compliance with this chapter is obtained. That is,
approval of the special use permit application shall not constitute a granting
to proceed with the use, only that the use approval has been granted and the
applicant/owner may begin the permitting process to legally conduct the use.
      (4)   Revocation. In any case where the conditions of a special use
permit have not been or are not being complied with, the Zoning Administrator
shall give the permittee notice of intention to revoke such permit at least ten
days prior to a Board of Adjustment review thereof. After conclusion of the
review, the Board of Adjustment may revoke such permit.
      (5)   Expiration.
         (a)   In any case where a special use permit has not been exercised
within the time limit set by the Board of Adjustment, or within two years if no
specific time limit has been set, then without further action, the permit shall
be null and void. EXERCISED as set forth in this section shall mean that
binding contracts for the construction of the main building have been let; or
in the absence of contracts that the main building is under construction to a
substantial degree; or that prerequisite conditions involving substantial
investment are contracted for, in substantial development, or completed.
         (b)   When construction is not a part of the use, EXERCISED shall mean
that the use is in operation in compliance with the condition set forth in the
permit.
   (I)   Manufactured home park certificate of zoning compliance. All
manufactured home parks shall maintain a valid certificate of zoning
compliance. A certificate of zoning compliance issued to the owner of a
manufactured home park shall constitute the authority to utilize the property
as a manufactured home park in accordance with this chapter. The certificate of
zoning compliance shall expire after a two year period or at the sale of the
park to a new owner(s), whichever comes first, and shall be renewed to remain
valid. The Planning Department shall withhold all permits to parks without a
valid certificate of zoning compliance. Failure to obtain a valid certificate
of zoning compliance within six months of September 15, 2003 shall be subject
to enforcement and penalties of this chapter as set out in §
153.999.
      (1)   Issuance of certificate of zoning compliance. Upon completion of
construction of the manufactured home park or each phase, the developer shall
then apply for a certificate of zoning compliance.
      (2)   Amended certificate of zoning compliance. Any reduction of the
total number of lots, shall require the issuance of an amended certificate of
zoning compliance. The transfer of a manufactured home space or spaces either
by sale or by any other means within the manufactured home park is prohibited.
      (3)   Department of Public Health.
         (a)   Biannual inspection. All manufactured home parks in the county
shall be inspected by the county’s Department of Public Health at least once
every two years. The certificate of zoning compliance of parks with sewage
problems based on current 15A NCAC 18A .1900 may be revoked upon request of the
county’s Department of Public Health.
         (b)   Validation of sanitary sewage system. Upon determination that an
existing sanitary sewage system has a valid operation permit or a valid
certificate of completion and is operating properly in a manufactured home
park, the county’s Department of Public Health shall issue authorization in
writing for a manufactured home to be connected to the existing system and to
be occupied following the requirements set forth in this chapter and by the
county’s Department of Public Health.
      (4)   Registration of occupants. Every manufactured home park owner shall
maintain an accurate register containing a record of all occupants, owner(s) of
manufactured homes, and a description of each home in the park. The register
shall be available for inspection at all times by authorized county
representatives. In accordance with G.S. § 105-316(a)(1), park owner(s) shall
furnish to the county Tax Supervisor a copy of the register before January l of
each calendar year.
   (J)   Other governmental permits. All permits required by local, state, and
federal agencies shall be obtained as appropriate. Refusal or inability to
receive permits required by other governmental agencies may result in non-
issuance of a certificate of occupancy. Failure to obtain proper permits may
result in pursuit of a violation, as provided herein.
   (K)   Permit expiration. Unless otherwise specified herein, all permits
shall be valid for a period of 365 days.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 6-18-2012; Res. passed 10-19-2015; Res.
passed 11-16-2020; Res. passed 6-21-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.062 GENERAL DEVELOPMENT REVIEW REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Foundation and setback verification survey.
      (1)   A foundation and setback verification survey shall be performed and
certified by a professional state land surveyor.
      (2)   A setback verification survey shall be required on all residential
lots equal to or less than 15,000 square feet or when the proposed structure is
within 10% of any required setback.
      (3)   The Administrator may require a foundation or setback verification
survey in cases where it cannot be determined that required building setbacks
are being met on nonresidential lots or on residential lots greater than 15,000
square feet.
   (B)   General plat and vicinity map criteria.
      (1)   Plat review.
         (a)   The county’s E-911 Addressing Department shall review all plats
to ensure that all roads are legible and correctly identified as set forth in
this chapter.
         (b)   Any road drawn on a map/plat shall be identified with the
approved E-911 Addressing road name.
         (c)   Any state maintained road drawn on a map/plat shall be
identified with NCDOT state road number and the approved E-911 Addressing road
name.
         (d)   Major highways such as U.S., N.C., and Interstates shall be
identified only with the approved E-911 Addressing road name (example: U.S. 421
N, U.S. 421 S, N.C. 27 E, N.C. 27 W, I-95 and the like).
         (e)   New or existing easements shall be reviewed to determine if a
new street name is required. This shall be determined by the number of lots,
the placement of the lots, existing homes, and addresses located on the
easement.
      (2)   Vicinity map.
         (a)   Any state maintained road drawn on the vicinity map shall be
identified with NCDOT state road number.
         (b)   Major highways such as U.S., N.C., and Interstate shall be
identified as U.S. 421, U.S. 401, etc, N.C. 27, N.C. 210, and the like, and I-
95.
         (c)   Roads that are not state maintained shall be identified with the
approved E-911 Addressing road name.
   (C)   Traffic impact analysis. A traffic impact analysis shall be submitted
to the Planning Department as part of the site plan submittal for all
developments and subdivisions if required by NCDOT and/or with all regional
site plans, as defined by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.063 SITE PLAN REVIEW REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General site plan requirements.
      (1)   Site plan review exemptions. The following activities or uses shall
be exempt from a site plan review, unless such site plan is required elsewhere
within this chapter:
         (a)   Public projects. The construction of any public street or
utility service line, whether publicly or privately owned, as part of a public
project;
         (b)   Maintenance. Maintenance of any structure is exempt from site
plan review;
         (c)   Bona fide farm. The use or intended use of land, with or without
accessory structures, for purposes of agriculture, raising of crops or animals,
forestry, mariculture, and the like;
         (d)   Customary home occupations. As defined in §
153.021(B);
         (e)   Accessory structures integral to permitted development. Any
accessory structure or use, whether temporary or permanent, integral to an
approved development permitted in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter. Such accessory structure or use shall comply with the design
standards and all other sections of this subchapter. In situations where the
size or use of the accessory structure can be considered detrimental to public
safety, the Administrator may require the applicant to submit a site plan;
         (f)   Temporary uses, nonmaterial. Those activities of short or
temporary duration that do not materially affect the area’s natural
environment, parking requirements, transportation patterns, public health, or
economic values shall be reviewed for approval by the Administrator.
      (2)   Site plan expiration. Any site plan that has received approval
shall be valid for a period of 365 days from the date the plan received
approval from the Administrator or Development Review Board. Any conditional
approval or hold decision for a site plan made by the DRB or Administrator
shall be valid for a period of 90 days from the date on which the decision was
made. It shall be the applicant’s responsibility to obtain full approval during
this period. Once this period has passed, the site plan shall be considered
null and void unless vested rights have been established in accordance with
this chapter. In these instances, a new review shall be obtained.
      (3)   Right of Appeal. If any site plan has been denied by the
Administrator or Development Review Board, the applicant has 30 days to appeal
the action of the Administrator or Development Review Board to the Board of
Adjustment. Beyond the decision of the Board of Adjustment, recourse shall be
to the courts as provided by law.
      (4)   Site plan requirements. In order for a site plan to be considered
complete, the applicant shall submit a site plan according to the table below.
A professional survey drawn site plan shall be required for all multifamily
residential, and neighborhood, community, and regional site plans. A survey
drawn site plan shall be required for minor site plans if located in the
Highway Corridor or Military Overlay Zoning District, or within the airport
height control, water supply watershed, or floodplain regulations, or if the
development is located on a nonconforming lot of record or structural
nonconformity.
 Single-     Multi- Family Minor Site Neighborhood Community Site Regional Site
 Family      Residential   Plan       Site Plan    Plan           Plan
 Residential
                                                                          Single-     Multi-      Minor Neighborhood Community Regional
                                                                          Family      Family      Site  Site Plan    Site Plan Site
                                                                          Residential Residential Plan                         Plan
BUFFERING REQUIREMENTS
Buffering regulations                                                                 X           X     X            X         X
Streetscape buffer (width, landscaping type, and maintenance                          X                 X            X         X
responsibility)
CERTIFICATIONS
County development review                                                             X                 X            X         X
NCDOT (driveway permit approval)                                                      X                 X            X         X
Ownership, dedication, and jurisdiction                                   X           X           X     X            X         X
Professional state land surveyor or engineer                                          X                 X            X         X
DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS
All parking areas on-site (based on type of business and/or sq. ft.)                  X                 X            X         X
All required amenities shown, including typicals                                      X                 X            X         X
Building elevations (if applicable)                                                               X     X            X         X
Cul-de-sac diameter                                                                   X                 X            X         X
Curb and gutter shown and noted                                                       X                 X            X         X
Detailed description of recreational facilities (if provided)                         X
Existing and proposed mechanical areas                                                X                 X            X         X
Existing and proposed utility areas                                                   X                 X            X         X
Existing and proposed trash containment areas                                         X                 X            X         X
Existing and proposed fencing, screening, gate(s) and/or dock(s)                      X                 X            X         X
Fire hydrant(s) and light(s) noted and depicted                                       X                 X            X         X
Foundation and setback verification survey requirement noted (if          X
applicable)
Hazardous materials to be stored on-site (if applicable)                                          X     X            X         X
HOA documents reference all improvements to be maintained                             X
Homeowners association by-laws and covenants to be imposed                            X
Hours and days of operation                                                                       X     X            X         X
Parking lot material and space typical                                                X                 X            X         X
Parking plan                                                                                                                   X
Spillage and pollution prevention and response methods (if applicable)                            X     X            X         X
Structure type noted                                                                              X     X            X         X
Traffic impact analysis                                                                                                        X
FEES
All review fees paid                                                      X           X           X     X            X         X
Verification of street sign purchase (if applicable)                                  X                 X            X         X
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
Additional information required by the Administrator                      X           X           X     X            X         X
Building envelope and required setbacks                                   X           X           X     X            X         X
Conceptual plan                                                                       X                 X            X         X
Driveways, sidewalks, and other permanent ground cover                    X
Existing and proposed utilities                                                       X                 X            X         X
Existing boundaries of tract(s) showing bearings and distances            X           X           X     X            X         X
Existing structure(s) located on-site                                     X           X           X     X            X         X
Gross acreage of development                                              X           X           X     X            X         X
Map Size 18" X 24" and scale 1"=200 ft. or larger                                     X                 X            X         X
Name, location, width, and acreage of all additional easement(s) and
right(s)-of-way within or adjacent to site with explanation of purpose    X           X           X     X            X         X
and maintenance responsibility
Name(s) and location(s) of adjacent property owner(s) and use(s)                      X           X     X            X         X
Name(s) and right(s)-of-way of streets and state road number(s),          X           X           X     X            X         X
including notation of public or private
North point, graphic scale, and vicinity map                                          X           X     X            X         X
Predevelopment meeting                                                                X                 X            X         X
Required stream buffers/setbacks around each water feature                            X                 X            X         X
Right-of-way notation in compliance with CTP                                          X                 X            X         X
Scale 1"=40 ft. or larger                                                 X                       X
Signage location, easement, type, and size                                            X           X     X            X         X
Water features depicted, as found on USGS quadrangles and county’s soil             X                 X            X         X
survey
NATURAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL
Impervious surface (% coverage of lot) if applicable                                  X                 X            X         X
Name(s) and location(s) of property or buildings on the national register             X                 X            X         X
of historic places or locally designated historic property
Natural feature(s) located on-site                                                    X                 X            X         X
Open space calculations and totals noted                                              X
Soils report provided                                                                 X                 X            X         X
Topography (max contour levels of 5 ft.)                                              X                 X            X         X
Wetlands delineated                                                                   X                 X            X         X
REQUIRED INSPECTION
Amenities installed as required (e.g., street trees, sidewalks, and the               X           X     X            X         X
like)
Drainage easements are stabilized without possible erosion                            X                 X            X         X
Fire hydrants installed where 6" public water lines exist                             X                 X            X         X
Lighting installed as required                                                        X           X     X            X         X
Necessary buffering and/or landscaping in place or security guaranteed                X           X     X            X         X
Parking area and drive aisle installed as required                                    X           X     X            X         X
Streets installed in accordance with dot standards                                    X                 X            X         X
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Copy of erosion control plan (if required)                                            X                 X            X         X
Drainage easement(s) and maintenance responsibility                                   X                 X            X         X
Erosion control plan submitted                                                        X                 X            X         X
Permanent stormwater BMP measures shown                                               X                 X            X         X
Stormwater management statement                                                       X                 X            X         X
Stormwater management permit and plan submitted                                       X                 X            X         X
Stormwater management plan calculations noted                                         X                 X            X         X
TITLE BLOCK INFORMATION
Airport zone notification (if applicable)                                             X           X     X            X         X
Applicant/Owner(s) contact information (name, address, and phone)         X           X           X     X            X         X
Copy of approved NCDENR and stormwater plan (if applicable)                           X                 X            X         X
Deed reference of tract(s)                                                X           X           X     X            X         X
Floodplain depicted and noted (zone, map number, and effective date)      X           X           X     X            X         X
Land use classification of tract(s)                                                                     X            X         X
Location (including township, county, and state)                                      X           X     X            X         X
Name of project and date (including all revision dates)                   X           X           X     X            X         X
Overlay zoning classification and required notation (if applicable)                   X                 X            X         X
Parcel ID number/Tax ID of tract(s)                                                   X           X     X            X         X
Surveyor/Engineer contact information (name, address, and phone)          X*          X                 X            X         X
Watershed District noted and extent of coverage depicted                  X           X           X     X            X         X
Zoning classification of tract(s)                                         X           X           X     X            X         X
 
   (B)   Single-family residential site plans. Single-family residential site
plans shall be approved by the Administrator and may be required to provide
professionally drawn site plans, in accordance with this section or as
determined by the Administrator.
      (1)   Required site plan. The Administrator shall assume no
responsibility for any errors or absent information on the required site plan.
         (a)   All features for the lot to be developed that are identified on
the recorded plat for such lot shall be identified on the required site plan,
including, but not limited to, easements, wetlands, and building setbacks. A
professionally drawn site plan shall be required in cases if any of the
following conditions apply:
            1.   The proposed lot is less than 15,000 square feet;
            2.   The proposed lot is located within an identified watershed
with impervious surface limitations;
            3.   The Floodplain Administrator is unable to determine whether or
not the proposed structure is located within a floodplain; and/or
            4.   The proposed structure is within 10% of the required setback.
         (b)   In no case shall the Administrator assume responsibility for
drawing or assisting in creating a site plan, drawn to engineer’s scale, if any
of the following conditions apply:
            1.   The applicant is a licensed general contractor; or
            2.   The proposed lot contains a recorded easement, other than for
ingress/egress.
         (c)   A site plan, meeting the requirements of this section, shall be
required for all accessory structures and additions and shall meet the
regulations listed above.
      (2)   Required submittal materials. A deed or offer to purchase on the
site of the proposed development shall be submitted with the required site
plan.
   (C)   Multifamily residential site plans. All proposed multifamily
developments, unless expressly exempted herein, shall be subject to site plan
review by the Development Review Board. No building permits shall be issued
until site plan approval has been granted.
   (D)   Nonresidential site plans. All proposed nonresidential developments,
unless expressly exempted herein, shall be subject to site plan review by the
Administrator or Development Review Board. No building permits shall be issued
until site plan approval has been granted. Construction plan/drawing review for
nonresidential site plans shall take place at the building plan review, unless
otherwise required.
      (1)   Minor site plan. Minor site plans shall be reviewed by the
Administrator.
      (2)   Neighborhood site plan. Neighborhood site plans shall be reviewed
by the Development Review Board.
      (3)   Community site plan. Community site plans shall be reviewed by the
Development Review Board.
      (4)   Regional site plan. Regional site plans shall be reviewed by the
Development Review Board.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 6-21-2021)
§ 153.064 MANUFACTURED HOME PARK SITE PLAN REVIEW REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to submitting an application to the county’s Board of Adjustment and
Development Review Board, the developer(s) shall submit an application for a
land use and zoning permit, accompanied by a preliminary site plan, and other
requirements and fees as applicable, to the Administrator for review. The
Administrator shall perform the review as a courtesy to advise the owner(s) of
any changes or additions that may be necessary to bring the proposal into
compliance with this chapter. Following, or in conjunction with, the
Administrator review, the owner(s) may request an onsite consult with the
Administrator.
   (A)   Approval and denial of manufactured home park site plan and
application.
      (1)   Approved plan. After receiving approval of the manufactured home
park plan, from the county’s Board of Adjustment, Development Review Board, and
other relevant agencies, the Planning Department shall issue the land use and
zoning permit.
      (2)   Denied plan. If the park plan fails to receive approval, the
reasons for such action and the recommended changes shall be provided in
writing to the developer(s) or his or her agent.
   (B)   Extension and expiration of approval. 
      (1)   (a)   At a minimum, 10% of the total cost of construction of the
manufactured home park shall have begun within one year of issuance of the land
use and zoning permit.
         (b)   If less than 10% of the total cost of construction has not begun
within 12 months from the issued date of the land use and zoning permit, the
Board of Adjustment may grant an extension of the permit if it concludes that
the permit has not yet expired, and if the applicant shows reasonable cause for
delay, or that conditions have not changed so substantially as to warrant a new
application, not to exceed two years.
         (c)   However, the Board of Adjustment has the authority to require
the proposed park to resubmit their plan.
      (2)   If, after some physical alteration to land or structures begin to
take place, such work is discontinued for a period of 12 months, then the
permit shall immediately expire.
   (C)   Manufactured home park site plan requirements. In order for a site
plan to be considered complete, the applicant shall submit a site plan
according to the table below. A professional survey drawn site plan shall be
required for all manufactured home park site plans.
 Board of Adjustment Development Review Park Alteration Site Existing,
 Site Plan           Board Site Plan    Plan                 Unpermitted Park
                                                             Site Plan
                 Board of        Development  Park Alteration Existing,
                 Adjustment Site Review Board Site Plan       Unpermitted Park
                 Plan            Site Plan                    Site Plan
BUFFERING REQUIREMENTS
Buffer
(location,
width, and type  X               X            X               X
of screening
option utilized)
Street trees     IF APPLICABLE   IF           IF APPLICABLE   IF
                                 APPLICABLE                   APPLICABLE
CERTIFICATIONS
County
Development                     X            X               X
Review Board (if
applicable)
Ownership,
dedication, and                 X            X               X
jurisdiction
Professional
state land                      X            X                
surveyor or
engineer
DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS
Address and/or
lot number for
each lot (as     X               X            X               X
approved by
County E-911
Addressing)
Cul-de-sac       X               X            X                
diameter
Detailed
description of
recreational     X               X            X                
facilities (if
provided)
Existing and
proposed trash
containment      X               X            X               X
areas (if
applicable)
Fire hydrant(s)
and light(s)                    X                            
noted and
depicted
Impervious
surface (%                      X            X                
coverage of lot)
Individual lot                  X            X                
dimensions
Lot and block
numbers in       X               X            X               X
consecutive
order
Natural feature
(s) located on-
site (including  X               X            X               X
wooded areas,
wetlands, and
bodies of water)
Net acreage for  X               X                            
each lot
Off street
parking pads
(including       X               X            X                
material and
typical)
Phase plan (if                  X            X                
applicable)
Sidewalks
(including
location, width,                X            X                
thickness, and
slope)
Street(s)
(including name,
location, width,
linear feet, and X               X            X               X
note either
public or
private)
Topography (max
contour levels                  X                            
of 10 ft.)
Total number of  X               X            X               X
lots proposed
Traffic
circulation
(including       X               X            X                
arrows
indicating any
one way streets)
Traffic impact
analysis, if     X               X                            
completed
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
Additional
information      X               X            X               X
required by the
Administrator
All structures
to be located on X               X            X               X
the park site
Building
envelope and     X               X            X                
required
setbacks
Easements, open
space, and areas
other than for
residential use  X               X            X               X
with explanation
of purpose and
maintenance
responsibility
Existing and
proposed
utilities
(including water                X            X               X
supply and
sewage disposal
facilities)
Existing
boundaries of
tract(s) showing X               X            X               X
bearings and
distances
Existing
structure(s)     X               X            X               X
located on-site
Gross acreage of X               X            X               X
development
Map size 18" X
24" and scale    X               X            X                
1"=200 ft. or
larger
Name, location,
width, and
acreage of
additional       X               X            X               X
easement(s) and
right(s)-of-way
within or
adjacent to site
Name(s) and
location(s) of
adjacent         X               X            X               X
property owner
(s) and use(s)
Name(s) and
right(s)-of-way
of adjacent
streets and
state road       X               X            X               X
number(s),
including
notation of
public or
private
North point,
graphic scale,   X               X            X                
and vicinity map
Predevelopment   X                           X                
meeting
Right-of-way
notation in      X               X            X                
compliance with
CTP
Signage
location,                       X            X               X
easement, type,
and size
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Drainage
easement(s) and                 X            X                
maintenance
responsibility
Permanent
stormwater BMP                  X            X                
measures shown
TITLE BLOCK INFORMATION
Airport zone
notification (if X               X            X               X
applicable)
Applicant/Owner
(s) contact
information      X               X            X               X
(name, address,
and phone)
Deed reference   X               X            X               X
of tract(s)
Floodplain
depicted and
noted (zone, map X               X            X               X
number, and
effective date)
Location
(including
township,        X               X            X               X
county, and
state)
Name and address
of manufactured
home park and    X               X            X               X
date (including
all revision
dates)
Overlay zoning
classification
and required     X               X            X                
notation (if
applicable)
Parcel ID
number/Tax ID of X               X            X               X
tract(s)
Professional
surveyor/
engineer contact X               X            X                
information
(name, address,
and phone)
Stormwater
calculations                    X                            
noted
Stormwater
management plan                 X            X                
calculations
noted
Watershed
District noted
and extent of    X               X            X               X
coverage
depicted
Zoning
classification   X               X            X               X
of tract(s)
 
   (D)   New manufactured home park site plan. In addition to the requirements
listed in §
153.064(C), and applicable fees, the following items shall be submitted with
all new manufactured home park requests:
      (1)   Board of Adjustment submittal requirements. All materials required
for a special use permit shall be submitted, along with the following:
         (a)   Solid waste disposal plan;
         (b)   Street name approval letter, provided to owner(s) by the
county’s E-911 Addressing; and
         (c)   Preliminary soils report.
      (2)   Development Review Board submittal requirements.
         (a)   Approved driveway permit required by the North Carolina
Department of Transportation (NCDOT);
         (b)   Engineered stormwater drainage plan;
         (c)   Certification of approval of water supply system and sewage
collection systems by local, state, and federal agencies as appropriate;
         (d)   Final soils report; and/or
         (e)   Any conditions that the Board of Adjustment attached to the
project shall be indicated as appropriate.
   (E)   Manufactured home park alteration site plan. The Administrator may
waive one or more of the site plan requirements listed for manufactured home
park alterations in cases of manufactured home park reductions or conversions
from manufactured home lots to recreational vehicle (RV) lots.
      (1)   Reduction shall be via the most appropriate method available,
according to the size and type of the same, and shall be as follows.
         (a)   Administrative review. 
            1.   Park owner(s) may reduce the number of lots within the
manufactured home park via administrative approval.
            2.   The reduction shall not result in a decrease in the total
acreage of the park.
         (b)   Development Review Board review. Owner(s) may apply for
Development Review Board approval of a reduction in the total acreage, in
addition to the reduction of the number of lots, of a manufactured home park.
Such application shall be made in accordance with established application
requirements and deadline and shall, at a minimum, meet the following
requirements.
            1.   Revised site plan shall be submitted for review and approval
by Development Review Board, indicating lots and acreage to be terminated from
use in the park.
            2.   Every effort shall be made for uniform reduction in size of
the manufactured home park. If such effort is not made, the recommendation made
by the Development Review Board regarding the application may be to forward the
request to the Board of Adjustment for a final decision.
         (c)   Approval of reduction. All lots to be removed from the park
shall be vacated prior to issuance of an amended certificate of zoning
compliance.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 5-18-2015; Res. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.065 SIGN SITE PLAN REVIEW REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A sign site plan shall be required, as outlined in §
153.159 or elsewhere in this chapter. The sign site plan shall be submitted in
accordance with the procedures listed herein and shall meet the requirements of
this section.
   (B)   Sign site plan requirements. In order for a site plan to be considered
complete, the applicant shall submit a site plan according to the table below:
 Business Sign Site Plan Billboard Repair Site Plan New Billboard Site Plan
                     Business Sign Site Billboard Repair New Billboard Site
                     Plan               Site Plan        Plan
CERTIFICATIONS
Ownership,
dedication, and      X                  X                X
jurisdiction
Professional state
land surveyor or     X                  X                X
engineer
DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS
All required
amenities shown;                                        
including typicals
Lot lines and
building lines                                          
showing bearings and
distances
Minimum lot size and                                    
width
Name(s) and location
(s) of property or
buildings on the
National Register of                                    
Historic Places or
locally designated
historic property
Natural feature(s)                                      
located on-site
Topography (max
contour levels of 5                                     
ft.)
FEES
All review fees paid X                  X                X
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS                                    
Additional
information required X                  X                X
by the Zoning
Administrator
Building envelope
and required         X                  X                X
setbacks
Easements, open
space, and areas
other than for
residential use with X                  X                X
explanation of
purpose and
maintenance
responsibility
Existing and                                            
proposed utilities
Existing boundaries
of tract(s) showing                    X                X
bearings and
distances
Existing structure   X                  X                X
(s) located on-site
Gross acreage of     X                  X                X
development
Map size 18" X 24"
and scale 1"=200 ft.                   X                X
or larger
Name, location,
width, and acreage
of additional
easement(s) and      X                  X                X
right(s)-of-way
within or adjacent
to site
Name(s) and location
(s) of adjacent      X                  X                X
property owner(s)
and use(s)
Name(s) and right
(s)-of-way of
streets and state    X                  X                X
road number(s),
including notation
of public or private
North point, graphic
scale, and vicinity                    X                X
map
Signage location,
easement, type, and  X                  X                X
size
Wetlands delineated                                     
REQUIRED INSPECTION
Amenities installed                                     
as required
Lighting installed                                      
as required
SITE PLAN ONLY
Conformity status    X                  X                 
noted
Explanation of need
for repair (which,
if any, components                     X                 
are salvageable) and
% of damage to total
area
Illumination method, X                  X                X
if any
Size, character,
general layout, and  X                  X                X
design for proposed
displays
Structural drawings
of proposed sign,
certified by a       X                  X                X
professional
engineer
Structural drawings
of proposed repairs
noting existing and
proposed material                      X                 
(Chief Building
Inspector may
require professional
engineer stamp)
TITLE BLOCK INFORMATION
Applicant/Owner(s)
contact information  X                  X                X
(name, address, and
phone)
Deed reference of    X                  X                X
tract(s)
Location (including
township, county,    X                  X                X
and state)
Name of project and
date (including all  X                  X                X
revision dates)
Parcel ID number/Tax X                  X                X
ID of tract(s)
Surveyor/Engineer
contact information  X                  X                X
(name, address, and
phone)
Zoning
classification of    X                  X                X
tract(s)
Floodplain depicted
and noted (zone, map X                  X                X
number, and
effective date)
Watershed district
noted and extent of  X                  X                X
coverage depicted
Land use
classification of                                       
tract(s)
Type/material of
proposed sign (e.g., X                  X                X
mono, wood, steel,
and the like)
 
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.066 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT AND OFFICE AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
PLAN REVIEW REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Development plan requirements. In order for a site plan to be
considered complete, the applicant shall submit a development plan according to
the table below. The criteria listed below may be provided in either narrative
or illustrative form, or both as applicable.
 PUD Development Plan O&I Development Plan
                                      PUD Development Plan O&I Development Plan
BUFFERING REQUIREMENTS
Buffering regulations                 X                    X
CERTIFICATIONS
Professional state land surveyor or   X                    X
engineer
FEES
All review fees paid                  X                    X
DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS
Impervious surface (% coverage of                         X
lot)
Minimum lot size and width                                X
Name(s) and location(s) of property
or buildings on the National Register X                    X
of Historic Places or locally
designated historic property
Natural feature(s) located on-site    X                    X
Phase plan (if applicable)                                X
Proposed land uses                    X                    X
Proposed lighting and analysis                            X
Proposed ownership of street right
(s)-of-way and responsibility for     X                    X
maintenance thereof
Topography (max contour levels of 5                       X
ft.)
Total acreage per land use            X                    X
Total number of lots proposed         X                    X
Total square footage per
nonresidential building, if                               X
applicable
Traffic circulation and patterns,
including vehicular travel, parking,  X                    X
bicycle, and pedestrian access
management
Traffic impact analysis, if completed X                    X
Typical lot size and width                                X
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
Additional information required by    X                    X
the Administrator
Existing and proposed utilities and
impact on such, including capacity    X                    X
availability
Existing structure(s) located on-site X                    X
Gross acreage of development          X                    X
Name(s) and location(s) of adjacent   X                    X
property owner(s) and use(s)
Name(s) and right(s)-of-way of
existing streets and state road       X                    X
number(s), including notation of
public or private
Open space calculations and totals    X                    X
noted
Predevelopment meeting                X                    X
Right-of-way notation in compliance   X                    X
with CTP
Wetlands delineated                   X                    X
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Permanent stormwater BMP measures                         X
shown
TITLE BLOCK INFORMATION
Airport zone notification (if         X                    X
applicable)
Applicant/owner(s) contact
information (name, address, and       X                    X
phone)
Deed reference of tract(s)            X                    X
Floodplain depicted and noted (zone,  X                    X
map number, and effective date)
Land use classification of tract(s)   X                    X
Location (including township, county, X                    X
and state)
Means of dedication and organization
arrangement for ownership and                             X
maintenance of open space
Name of project and date (including   X                    X
all revision dates)
Overlay zoning classification and                         X
required notation (if applicable)
Parcel ID number/Tax ID of tract(s)   X                    X
Surveyor/Engineer contact information X                    X
(name, address, and phone)
Watershed district noted and extent   X                    X
of coverage depicted
Zoning classification of tract(s)     X                    X
 
   (B)   Planned unit development. The following submittal and review
procedures shall be followed for proposed planned unit developments. Additional
application submittal requirements, design standards, and review and approval
criteria for planned unit developments can be found in §
153.115(H).
      (1)   Submittal procedure. The procedure for approval of a planned unit
development shall combine the special use permit review process and the
subdivision plat and site plan review processes, as outlined by this chapter.
All applications for special use permits for PUDs shall be submitted a minimum
of 60 days prior to the Board of Adjustment meeting. An outline development
plan for the entire development, described below, shall be prepared and
submitted along with a special use permit application and all other required
documentation.
      (2)   Staff review. Upon receipt of a complete application, Planning
staff will conduct a review of the outline development plan and other required
materials. The outline development plan and required documents may also be
reviewed and commented on by other county departments, as applicable.
      (3)   Final PUD document submittal. Following approval of a planned unit
development application, revised and final documentation shall be submitted to
the Planning Department. The submittal shall be made within 30 business days of
approval by the Board of Adjustment and shall include the documents listed
below, including all revisions required as part of the review and approval
process:
         (a)   Cover letter;
         (b)   Outline development plan; and
         (c)   Site plan.
   (C)   Office and institutional development plan.
      (1)   Application submittal requirements.
         (a)   Specific descriptions of proposed development with building
locations, building sizes, parking arrangements, and description of building
heights with consideration of impact on adjacent areas. See §
153.066(A);
         (b)   Analysis of impacts resulting from proposed development, along
with options to mitigate impacts relating to:
            1.   Transportation management (traffic, parking, bikes,
pedestrians);
            2.   Stormwater management analysis (quantity and quality);
            3.   Watershed requirements (impervious surface);
            4.   Lighting analysis;
            5.   Perimeter buffering and landscaping; and/or
            6.   Water and sewer impacts.
         (c)   Preliminary timetable and sequencing schedule for building
construction and for related mitigation measures.
      (2)   Design standards.
         (a)   District dimensional requirements.
            1.   Minimum area. Shall have a minimum of five acres in a single
lot or multiple contiguous lots that total acreage equals or exceeds five
acres.
            2.   Minimum required setbacks. All structures shall be setback a
minimum of 35 feet from all state maintained rights-of-way and all property
lines that adjoin the perimeter transition area.
         (b)   Parking and off-street loading requirements.
            1.   The number of parking spaces required for office and
institutional developments shall be tied to the development’s documentation of
adequate parking availability that is approved by the Planning Board.
            2.   All parking and off-street loading areas shall meet the
applicable development standards of §
153.152.
         (c)   Environment. Development proposed in the development plan shall
minimize impacts on natural site features, and be accompanied by measures to
mitigate those impacts.
         (d)   Transportation. Development proposed in the development plan
shall be accompanied by measures to mitigate transportation impacts that are
caused by the development.
         (e)   Stormwater management. Development proposed in the development
plan shall be accompanied by measures to mitigate stormwater impacts (quantity
and quality) that are caused by the development and shall comply with all
regulations related to stormwater management of this chapter.
         (f)   Public utilities. There shall be a general demonstration that
water, sewer, and other needed utilities can be made available to accommodate
development proposed in the development plan. A certification letter from the
county’s Public Utilities shall be submitted along with the development plan.
         (g)   Perimeter buffering and landscaping. Areas located within the
perimeter transition areas shall provide a detailed analysis of all proposed
screening techniques according to the standards set forth below.
         (h)   Sidewalks and pedestrian ways. Shall be required from building
to building and along the development perimeter to ensure that pedestrian
traffic moves safely and orderly from point to point. Such routes shall be
submitted and approved by the Planning Board as part of the development plan.
         (i)   Watershed requirements. Where applicable all proposed
developments shall take into consideration watershed requirements. Therefore a
detailed analysis of the current and proposed impact on the watershed along
with certification that the proposed development will meet all watershed
regulations especially in regards to impervious surface calculations shall be
approved with the development plan.
         (j)   Perimeter transition areas and design standards. A development
plan shall designate a 35-foot wide area at the boundaries of the O&I District.
This area shall be referred to as the perimeter transition area which will
establish appropriate standards at the borders of the development plan,
necessary to minimize impacts of development proposed in the development plan
on adjacent property, to be approved by the Planning Board as part of the
development plan. Standards shall address:
            1.   Screening of mechanical equipment and trash containment areas.
All screening mechanical equipment and trash containment areas located within
the perimeter transition area or visible from the public right(s)-of-way shall
be screened from view using one of the techniques listed in §
153.158(B)(2);
            2.   Exterior lighting. Exterior lighting shall be installed as to
protect the streets and neighboring properties from direct glare or hazardous
interference of any kind;
            3.   Buffering. Structures built within the perimeter transition
area that adjoin residentially zoned or used property or adjoin a public right-
of-way shall be buffered using one of the techniques given for a “Type A
buffer” as defined in §
153.158(A)(8)(b); however, the buffering shall only apply to the property line
(s) that adjoin the residentially zoned or residentially used property.
Further, this buffering shall adequately cover enough area to ensure the
maximum amount of buffer is given to the adjacent residential use or zoning;
and
            4.   Parking. Parking lots located within the perimeter transition
area that adjoin a public street right-of-way or are adjacent to residentially
zoned or used property shall be landscaped or otherwise screened using one of
the techniques given in §
153.152 to minimize views of parking from the street and adjoining properties.
Further, these parking areas shall be set back a minimum of ten feet from the
right(s)-of-way or property line(s).
      (3)   Application submittal procedures.
         (a)   Applications for a development plan shall be filed with the
Administrator. Subsequent required site specific development plans and permits
shall be submitted in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   The Administrator shall prescribe the form(s) of applications as
well as any other material he or she may reasonably require to determine
compliance with this section. Applications shall include information detailing
compliance with regulations described herein.
      (4)   Review procedures.
         (a)   Applications for development plan approval shall be reviewed by
the Planning Department and forwarded to the Planning Board for consideration
at a public meeting.
         (b)   The applicant shall bear the burden of presenting evidence
sufficient to establish persuasively that the proposed development will comply
with the established regulations of the Office and Institutional District.
         (c)   A record of the proceedings of the meeting shall be made and
shall include all documentary evidence presented at the hearing. Planning Board
action on an application for development plan approval shall occur within 90
days of the date of submittal of a complete application.
      (5)   Actions after decision of Planning Board.
         (a)   The development plan, including all conditions attached thereto,
shall run with the land and shall be binding on the original applicant as well
as all successors, assigns, and heirs.
         (b)   If the development plan is approved, or approved with
conditions, the Administrator may then accept applications for individual site
development permits for specific buildings that are described in the
development plan. No work on a building identified on the development plan may
begin until a site development permit has been issued. The Administrator shall
prescribe the form(s) of applications as well as any other material he or she
may reasonably require to determine compliance with the development plan. If
the Administrator finds that the application is consistent with the development
plan, he or she shall approve the application and issue the site development
permit within 30 calendar days of the submittal of a complete application. If
the Administrator finds that the application is not consistent with the
development plan, he or she shall deny the application within 30 calendar days
of the acceptance of the application and refer the applicant to the special use
process described in this chapter. Alternatively, the applicant may apply for
an amendment to the development plan.
      (6)   Expiration, abandonment, or revocation of development plan. If an
application for a site development permit pursuant to an approved development
plan has not been submitted to the Administrator within two years of the date
of approval of the development plan, the approval shall automatically expire.
On request by the holder of an approved development plan, the Planning Board
shall approve the abandonment of the plan if it determines that no subsequent
development approvals have been granted and no construction activity has taken
place pursuant to the development plan. If material conditions of a development
plan are violated, and remain in violation after giving the property owner a
reasonable amount of time to correct such violation, the Planning Board may
revoke the plan after notification to the property owner and opportunity for
property owner response at a public meeting of the Planning Board.
      (7)   Development plan amendment procedures.
         (a)   Before making a determination as to whether a proposed action is
a minor change or a modification, the Administrator shall review the record of
the proceedings on the original application for the development plan and any
subsequent applications for modifications of the development plan, and shall
use the following criteria in making a determination:
            1.   A change in the boundaries of the development plan approved by
the Planning Board shall constitute a modification;
            2.   A substantial change in the lot size or number of parking
spaces approved by the Planning Board shall constitute a modification; (General
rule is that more than a 5% increase in overall net new lot area or parking in
a development plan approved by the Planning Board would be considered
substantial.)
            3.   Substantial changes in pedestrian or vehicular access or
circulation approved by the Planning Board shall constitute a modification; and
(General rule is that changes that would affect access or circulation beyond
the boundaries of a development plan would be considered substantial.)
            4.   Substantial change in the amount or location of open areas
approved by the Planning Board shall constitute a modification.
         (b)   The Administrator is authorized to approve minor changes and
changes in the ordering of phases in an approved development plan, as long as
such changes continue to be in compliance with the approving action of the
Planning Board and all other applicable requirements, and result in a
configuration of buildings that is generally consistent with the approved
development plan. The Administrator shall not have the authority to approve
changes that constitute a modification of the development plan.
         (c)   If the proposed action is determined to be a modification, the
Administrator shall require the filing of an application for approval of the
modification, following procedures outlined in this section for initial
approval of a development plan.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.067 SUBDIVISION REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   Pursuant to G.S. Chapter 160D, a final plat shall be prepared,
approved, and recorded pursuant to the provisions of this chapter whenever any
subdivision of land takes place.
      (2)   Pursuant to G.S. Chapter 160D, no final plat of a subdivision
within the jurisdiction of the county shall be recorded by the Register of
Deeds of the county until it has been approved as provided herein. To secure
such approval of a final plat, the subdivider shall follow the procedures
established in this subchapter.
      (3)   To further the purpose of this chapter, the county encourages all
divisions of land to meet the minimum subdivision and development standards
contained herein. Divisions of land exempt from the requirements of this
chapter that do not meet the minimum requirements contained herein shall be
identified as such.
   (B)   General procedures.
      (1)   Review and approval.
         (a)   All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose of immediate sale or
building development and includes all division of land involving the dedication
of a new street or a change in existing streets shall be required to meet the
subdivision requirements of this chapter, unless otherwise stated.
         (b)   Court-ordered divisions shall include language specifically
identifying how the parcel(s) are to be divided, including the acreage to be
divided and exact parameters for how the division should occur.
         (c)   All subdivisions shall be considered major subdivisions except
those defined as minor subdivisions by this chapter. Major subdivisions shall
be reviewed in accordance with the procedures in division (E) below. Minor
subdivisions shall be reviewed in accordance with the provisions in division
(D) below.
         (d)   If the applicant owns, leases, holds an option on, or holds any
legal or equitable interest in any property adjacent to or located directly
across a street, easement, or right-of-way from the property to be subdivided,
the subdivision shall not qualify under the minor subdivision procedure. The
minor subdivision procedure may not be used a second time within three years on
any property less than 1,500 feet from the original property boundaries by
anyone who owned any individual, corporation, partnership or other entity who
owned, leased, had an option on, or held any legal interest in the original
subdivision at the time the subdivision received preliminary or final plat
approval . Additionally, any subsequent owner, individual having, corporation,
partnership, or other entity that owns, leases, has an option on, or individual
having has any legal interest in the original subdivision tract of land that
was subdivided at the time the subdivision received preliminary or final plat
approval shall not be permitted to use the minor subdivision a second time on
the original tract of land within three years from the last subdivision. For
the purposes of this section, any corporation, partnership, or other entity in
which an owner, partner, officer, director, or majority shareholder of such
entity is/was an owner, partner, officer, director, or majority shareholder in
the corporation, partnership, or other entity that owned, leased, held an
option on, or held any legal or equitable interest in the original tract of
land that was subdivided shall not be permitted to use the minor subdivision
procedure a second time within three years on any property within 1,500 feet
from the original property boundaries.
         The three-year waiting period shall not apply to an individual
subdividing a parcel of land for an immediate family member within three years
of the initial minor subdivision of the original tract of land. For the
purposes of this section, IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER means a spouse, parent,
child, brother, sister, grandparent, or grandchild. In no case shall the number
of new lots created, combined with the number of lots created by the initial
minor subdivision, exceed the maximum number of lots permitted by the minor
subdivision process. All other requirements set forth by the minor subdivision
process shall apply. To qualify for this exemption, the parcel to be subdivided
must be owned in the individual’s name and the individual shall submit a plat
including the name and relation of the immediate family member on the lot and
state the lot is being conveyed to that family member. The individual
subdividing the land shall certify the following on the plat:
         I hereby certify the lot shown is created for the purposes of family
ownership and is in no way intended to circumvent the minor subdivision
provisions of the Harnett County Unified Development Ordinance.
                                                                                                                     
         Property Owner Signature               Date
            1.   For all other requests for exemptions to this three year
waiting period, the Planning Director or Designee may at any time refer the
application to the Harnett County Planning Board for consideration to allow a
second minor subdivision to occur within the allotted three years if deemed
necessary and appropriate. Subsequent to Planning Board approval, the
application shall then be reviewed in accordance with the major subdivision
review and approval process by the Development Review Board.
            2.   In no case shall utilization of this process allow for the
number of new lots created, combined with the number of lots created by the
initial minor subdivision exceed the maximum number of lots permitted by the
minor subdivision process. No other requirements set forth by the minor
subdivision process shall be circumvented.
            3.   The minor subdivision process may be utilized for the division
of lots located within a nonresidential zoning district when no easement or
right(s)-of-way dedication is required.
         (e)   Any change in a map of an approved preliminary subdivision or
recorded minor or major subdivision plat/plan or any map or plat/plan legally
recorded prior to the adoptions of any regulations controlling subdivisions
that materially affects any of the following shall obtain a new subdivision
approval in compliance and following the procedures of this chapter. In cases
where a subdivision is considered a minor subdivision, that is the review
process that shall be utilized. In cases where a subdivision is considered a
major subdivision, or the proposed change would necessitate a major subdivision
review process, that is the process that shall be utilized:
            1.   Right(s)-of-way layout;
            2.   Any area reserved thereon for public use; and/or
            3.   Any lot line (including the addition of lot lines).
         (f)   A preliminary subdivision plat for a commercial or residential
subdivision shall include a stormwater management statement, for the purpose of
assisting the developer in assessing stormwater management needs and downstream
impacts. Where a preliminary plat is not required (i.e., minor subdivision) the
stormwater management statement shall be submitted with the minor subdivision
plat. The stormwater management statement shall be submitted as part of the
conceptual plan, if required by this chapter.
      (2)   Expiration of plat approval.
         (a)   Any preliminary major subdivision plat consisting of a single
phase which has failed to receive final plat approval from the Development
Review Board (DRB) within two years from the date of preliminary plat approval
by the DRB shall be null and void.
         (b)   Major subdivisions consisting of multiple phases shall have
received final plat approval from the Development Review Board for at least one
phase within two years from the date of preliminary plat approval or the
approval shall be null and void. Each subsequent phase shall be recorded within
a period of three years, or as approved by this chapter; otherwise, the
preliminary plat approval shall be null and void.
         (c)   Any conditional approval or hold decision for a major
subdivision made by the DRB shall be valid for a period of 90 days from the
date on which the decision was made. It shall be the applicant’s responsibility
to obtain full approval during this period. After such date, the review shall
be null and void. In no case shall a conditional approval or hold decision be
considered a vested right until a full approval has been granted.
         (d)   Any review completed by the Planning Department of a minor
subdivision or exempt plat shall be valid for 30 days from the date such review
comments are provided by the Planning Department staff. After such date, the
review shall be null and void.
      (3)   Subdivision plat/plan requirements. In order for a subdivision
plat/plan, exempt map, or master sketch plan to be considered complete, the
applicant shall submit a site plan according to the table below:
 Exempt Plat Minor Subdivision Preliminary Final Subdivision Master Sketch Plan
                               Subdivision
                                                                          Exempt Minor       Preliminary Final       Master
                                                                          Plat   Subdivision Subdivision Subdivision Sketch
                                                                                                                     Plan
BUFFERING REQUIREMENTS
Buffering regulations (per county ordinance)                                               X           X           X
Prime views and vistas buffer (width, landscaping type, and maintenance                    X           X            
responsibility)
Streetscape buffer (width, landscaping type, and maintenance                               X           X            
responsibility)
CERTIFICATIONS
County Development Review Board (if applicable)                                            X           X           X
County Register of Deeds                                                  X      X           X           X            
County Review Officer                                                     X      X           X           X            
County Subdivision Administrator                                          X      X                                  
NCDOT (driveway permit approval)                                                X           X           X            
Ownership, dedication, and jurisdiction                                   X      X           X           X            
Professional state land surveyor or engineer                              X      X           X           X           X
DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENT
All required amenities shown; including typicals                                           X           X            
Cul-de-sac diameter                                                             X           X           X            
Detailed description of recreational facilities if provided                                X           X            
Final soils report provided                                                                           X            
Fire hydrant(s) and light(s) depicted and noted                                            X           X            
Foundation and setback verification survey requirement noted                    X           X           X            
HOA documents reference all improvements to be maintained                                             X            
Homeowners association by-laws and covenants to be imposed                                            X            
Impervious surface (% coverage of lot)                                          X           X           X            
Individual lot dimensions                                                 X      X           X           X            
Linear feet per street (note either public or private)                          X           X           X            
Lot and block numbers in consecutive order                                      X           X           X            
Lot lines and building lines showing bearings and distances               X      X           X           X            
Minimum lot size and width                                                X      X           X           X           X
Name(s) and location(s) of property or buildings on the National Register X      X           X           X           X
of Historic Places or locally designated historic property
Natural feature(s) located on-site                                              X           X           X           X
Net acreage for each lot                                                  X      X           X           X            
Open space calculations and totals noted                                                   X           X           X
Preliminary soils report provided (if applicable)                         X                 X                      X
Proposed block numbers, approximate dimensions, and phase lines (if                        X           X           X
applicable)
Proposed streets, including right(s)-of-way, location, dimensions, and                     X           X            
pavement width
Topography (max contour levels of 5 ft.)                                        X           X                      X
Total number of lots proposed                                                   X           X           X           X
Traffic impact analysis (if completed)                                                     X                       
Typical street cross section(s) (if applicable)                                            X           X            
Voluntary Agricultural District (VAD) notification (if applicable)        X      X           X           X            
FEES
All review fees paid                                                      X      X           X           X            
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
Additional information required by the Administrator                      X      X           X           X           X
Building envelope and required setbacks                                   X      X           X           X            
Conceptual plan                                                                            X                       
Easements, open space, and areas other than for residential use with            X           X           X            
explanation of purpose and maintenance responsibility
Existing and proposed utilities                                                 X           X           X           X
Existing boundaries of tract(s) showing bearings and distances            X      X           X           X            
Existing streets and right(s)-of-way on adjacent properties                                X           X           X
Existing structure(s) located on-site                                     X      X           X           X            
Gross acreage of development                                              X      X           X           X           X
Linear feet per street                                                                     X           X           X
Map size 18" X 24" and scale 1"=200 ft. or larger                         X      X           X           X           X
Name, location, width, and acreage of additional easement(s) and right-   X      X           X           X            
of-way within or adjacent to site
Name(s) and location(s) of adjacent property owner(s) and use(s)          X      X           X           X            
Name(s) and right(s)-of-way of streets and state road number(s),          X      X           X           X           X
including notation of public or private
North point, graphic scale, and vicinity map                              X      X           X           X           X
Predevelopment meeting                                                                     X                      X
Required stream buffers/setbacks around each water feature                      X           X           X           X
Right-of-way notation in compliance with CTP                                    X           X           X           X
Signage location, easement, type, and size                                                 X           X            
Water features depicted, as found on USGS quadrangles and county’s soil       X           X           X           X
survey
Wetlands delineated                                                                        X           X            
REQUIRED INSPECTION
Amenities installed as required (e.g., street trees, sidewalks, and the                               X            
like)
Drainage easements are stabilized without possible erosion                      X                      X            
Fire hydrants installed where 6" public water lines exist                       X                      X            
Improvements installed in accordance with final plat and stormwater             X                      X            
management plan
Lighting installed as required                                                                        X            
Necessary buffering and/or landscaping is in place or security has been                               X            
guaranteed
Stop signs installed in compliance with NCDOT standards                                               X            
Streets installed in accordance with minor subdivision standards                X                                  
Streets installed in accordance with NCDOT standards                                                  X            
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Copy of erosion control plan (if required)                                      X           X           X           X
Copy of stormwater plan (if required)                                           X           X           X           X
Drainage easement(s) and maintenance responsibility                                        X           X            
Permanent stormwater BMP measures shown and temporary measures noted                                  X            
Stormwater management permit and plan submitted                                                       X            
Stormwater management plan calculations noted                                                         X            
Stormwater management statement (if required)                                   X           X           X           X
TITLE BLOCK INFORMATION
Airport zone notification (if applicable)                                       X           X           X            
Applicant/Owner(s) contact information (name, address, and phone)         X      X           X           X           X
Deed reference of tract(s)                                                X      X           X           X           X
Floodplain depicted and noted (zone, map number, and effective date)      X      X           X           X           X
Land use classification of tract(s)                                             X           X           X           X
Location (including township, county, and state)                          X      X           X           X           X
Name of project and date (including all revision dates)                   X      X           X           X           X
Overlay zoning classification and required notation (if applicable)             X           X           X            
Parcel ID number/Tax ID of tract(s)                                       X      X           X           X           X
Surveyor/Engineer contact information (name, address, and phone)          X      X           X           X           X
Verification of purchase of street signs (if applicable)                  X      X                      X            
Watershed District noted and extent of coverage depicted                  X      X           X           X           X
Zoning classification of tract(s)                                         X      X           X           X           X
 
   (C)   Subdivision exemptions and procedures.
      (1)   Subdivision exemptions. The following is not included within the
definition of a subdivision and is not subject to the subdivision regulations
enacted pursuant to the chapter. All other requirements of this chapter shall
be met, including, but not limited to, submittal and review of plat/plan for
those items listed herein to verify compliance with other regulations:
         (a)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots if the total number of lots is not increased and
the resultant lots are equal to, or exceed, the standards of the county as
shown in these subdivision regulations;
         (b)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres if no
street right-of-way dedication is involved;
         (c)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for
widening or opening streets; and/or
         (d)   The division of a tract in single ownership, the entire area of
which is no greater than two acres into not more than three lots, if no street
right-of-way dedication is involved and if the resultant lots are equal to or
exceed the standards of the county as shown by its subdivision regulations.
      (2)   Exempt plat/plan procedures. Exempt plats/plans, although exempt
from the subdivision regulations of this chapter, shall meet all other
requirements of this chapter, as well as other local, state, and federal
regulations, as applicable.
         (a)   Combination and recombination plat/plans. Combination and/or
recombination of previously subdivision and recorded lots shall conform to the
following regulations.
            1.   A soils evaluation shall be submitted, performed by a
professional licensed to do such work, on all lots meeting the above criteria
with existing septic systems to verify that the entire system and repair area
are contained within the proposed new lot lines.
            2.   Such evaluation shall include statements regarding the
functionality of the existing system, conformity to setback requirements of the
county’s Department of Public Health, adequate repair area, and all other items
necessary for staff to evaluate whether conformity to 15A NCAC 18A .900 is met.
            3.   Permits for existing septic systems may be used as
verification for this purpose.
         (b)   All other exempt plat/plans. In cases where a soils evaluation
is not required by this chapter, the plat/plan shall note that an evaluation
has not been done.
   (D)   Minor subdivision procedures.
      (1)   Review for minor subdivisions. 
         (a)   The Planning Department shall establish standard regulations for
plan submittal and review including, but not limited to, the number of copies
requested and the information to be included on the plan. The Administrator
shall advise the subdivider or his or her authorized agent of the regulations
pertaining to the proposed subdivision and the procedures to be followed in the
preparation and submittal of the final plat.
         (b)   The Administrator shall submit copies of the plan and any
accompanying material to other officials and agencies concerned with new
development including, but not limited to:
            1.   The county’s Public Health Department;
            2.   The county’s Public Utilities Department;
            3.   The county’s Fire Code Official;
            4.   The county’s E-911 Addressing Operations Administrator;
            5.   NCDOT District Highway Engineer; and/or
            6.   The state’s Department of Environment and Natural Resources.
         (c)   The Administrator shall review the plan for general compliance
with the requirements of this chapter.
         (d)   One copy of the plan shall be returned to the subdivider or his
or her authorized agent.
      (2)   Plat submittal for minor subdivisions.
         (a)   Upon review of the plan by the Administrator, the subdivider may
proceed with the preparation of the plat in accordance with the requirements of
this chapter. For the purposes of this section, the “plan” and “plat” are
referenced separately; the plan for reviewing and the plat for recordation.
         (b)   The subdivider shall submit the plat so marked, to the
Administrator.
         (c)   The plat shall be prepared by a professional state land surveyor
or engineer currently licensed and registered in the state by the state Board
of Examiners for Engineers and Surveyors. The plat shall conform to the
provisions for plats, subdivisions, and mapping requirements set forth in the
state general statutes, as applicable.
         (d)   Three copies of the plat shall be submitted, one of these shall
be on reproducible material. Material and drawing medium for the original shall
be in accordance with the state general statutes, where applicable, and the
requirements of the county’s Register of Deeds.
         (e)   The plat shall be of a size suitable for recording with the
county’s Register of Deeds and shall be at a scale of not less than one inch
equals 200 feet. Maps may be placed on more than one sheet with appropriate
match lines.
         (f)   Submittal of the plat shall be accompanied by a filing fee and,
if applicable, a street sign fee as adopted and periodically revised by the
Board of Commissioners.
         (g)   The plat shall contain the same information as required in
division(B)(3) above and a copy of a recorded ingress and egress easement
maintenance agreement or reference number on the map as required in §
153.151(E).
         (h)   The certificates, as applicable, listed in §
153.025 shall appear on all required copies of the plat.
      (3)   Actions subsequent to review.
         (a)   If the plat is disapproved by the Administrator, the reasons for
such disapproval shall be stated in writing, specifying the provisions of this
chapter with which the plat does not comply. One copy of such reasons and one
print of the plat shall be retained by the Administrator as part of the
records; one copy of the reasons and one print of the plat shall be transmitted
to the subdivider. If the plat is disapproved, the subdivider may make such
changes as will bring the plat into compliance and resubmit same for
reconsideration by the Administrator.
         (b)   If the plat is approved by the Administrator, the original
tracing and one print of the plat shall be retained by the subdivider. One
print shall be retained by the Administrator for the records.
         (c)   The subdivider shall file the approved plat with the Register of
Deeds of the county within 30 days of the approval; otherwise, such approval
shall be null and void.
   (E)   Major subdivision procedures.
      (1)   Pre-development review for major subdivisions.
         (a)   Prior to the preliminary plat submittal, the subdivider may meet
with staff regarding and/or submit to the Administrator, a sketch plan of the
proposed subdivision for review and comment.
         (b)   The Administrator shall review, in a reasonable time frame, the
sketch plan for general compliance with the requirements of this chapter; the
Administrator shall advise the subdivider or his or her authorized agent of the
regulations pertaining to the proposed subdivision and the procedures to be
followed in the preparation and submittal of the preliminary and final plats.
Review of the sketch plan shall in no way constitute a full review, approval,
or vested rights of a proposed plan.
      (2)   Public outreach.
         (a)   A minimum extent of public outreach shall be done by the
developer(s) prior to, or in conjunction with, application of the proposed plan
in compliance with this section for all developments of 500 or more units in
order to facilitate an informed development process. The same public outreach
is encouraged for developments of less than 500 units. Such notification shall
include a map of the development area, a description of the proposed
development, and contact information for the developer(s) and/or a
representative(s).
         (b)   Owner(s) of properties located within the proposed development
area and all adjacent parcels of the proposed development area shall be
notified by the developer(s) of the intent for development of the site. It
shall be the responsibility of the developer(s) to furnish the cost of postage
and all required documentation to the Planning Department for distribution.
         (c)   In such cases where a public outreach meeting is held,
notification shall be mailed so that notice is given a minimum of ten business
days prior to the meeting. The results of the public outreach meeting shall be
summarized and submitted to Planning staff within five business days following
the meeting. The summary shall include: the date, time, and location of the
meeting; number of participants, including a copy of the sign-in sheet; a list
of issues that arose during the meeting; and a plan to resolve those issues, if
possible.
      (3)   Preliminary, construction, and final plat submittal procedure.
         (a)   General procedures.
            1.   For every subdivision within the territorial jurisdiction of
this chapter, which does not qualify for the minor subdivision procedure, the
subdivider shall submit a preliminary major subdivision plat which shall be
approved by the Development Review Board before any construction or
installation of improvements may begin. Submittal of construction plan/drawing
and final plat shall be submitted and approved following the same procedures.
Submittal of the subdivision plat shall be accompanied by a filing fee as
adopted and periodically revised by the Board of Commissioners.
            2.   A complete application shall be submitted to the Planning
Department by the established deadline. Incomplete applications will not be
reviewed and will not be placed on the Development Review Board agenda. The
county’s Planning Department shall establish criteria for a complete
application. Any change in submittal requirements shall be posted in the
Planning Department office no less than 30 days prior to enforcement. This
information shall be made available to the public and shall be posted in the
Planning Department office.
            3.   Subdivision plats shall meet the specifications in division
(B)(3) above. A master sketch plan may be substituted for a preliminary plat in
cases where the information included within the master sketch plan meets the
requirements for a preliminary subdivision in the subsection referenced herein.
         (b)   Construction plan/drawing review. Following approval of the
preliminary major subdivision plat and prior to construction and improvements
to the development, construction plan/drawing shall be submitted to the
Planning Department by the established deadline, and approved by the county.
Construction plans/drawings may also be required elsewhere by this chapter. In
such cases, such materials shall be submitted in accordance with this section,
unless otherwise stated. Review of such materials shall be via administrative
review and will not follow the typical DRB review process. The following shall
apply to all construction plan/drawing submittals:
            1.   All required submittal materials shall be sealed;
            2.   Such drawings shall meet the requirements of §
153.229;
            3.   All requirements of the county’s Department of Public
Utilities, Fire Code Official, and County Engineer shall be met;
            4.   A copy of materials approved by NCDENR shall be included as
part of the construction plan submittal; and/or
            5.   A flow acceptance letter for sewer capacity from the county’s
Department of Public Utilities shall be submitted with the DRB application.
         (c)   Phased developments.
            1.   Developments to be constructed in phases shall submit a master
sketch plan. In such cases, the master sketch plan shall be included with the
preliminary plat at the time of such submittal. In no case shall approval of
the master sketch plan as part of the approval of the first phase of
development constitute vested rights for additional phases of development of
the site, unless each subsequent phase depicted in the master plan meets the
provisions of this chapter for a major subdivision preliminary plat.
            2.   Phased developments shall be submitted in compliance with
division (B)(2) above.
      (4)   Development Review Board review procedures. The following shall
apply to major subdivision preliminary and final plat review procedures. Major
subdivision construction plan/drawing submittals shall be reviewed by a
subcommittee of the Development Review Board (DRB). The subcommittee shall
consist of the county’s Department of Public Utilities, Fire Code Official, and
County Engineer.
         (a)   The petitioner shall be prepared to make a very brief
presentation to the Development Review Board (DRB) membership and answer any
questions when the application is reviewed. Each Development Review Board
general member shall have completed review of the application prior to the
regularly scheduled meeting in which the application is being reviewed.
Comments on the application shall be provided, in brief, to the petitioner at
the regularly scheduled meeting. If the nature of the comments is too
complicated for a brief presentation, it shall be the responsibility of the
petitioner to contact the member’s agency with comments for a full explanation.
         (b)   The Development Review Board shall, in writing, recommend
approval; conditional approval (with a list of the conditions to bring the plat
into compliance); hold (with a list of the conditions to bring the plat into
compliance and prepare for further DRB review); or disapproval (with reasons)
only after all concerns or comments of the Board general membership have been
received. The applicant will receive a copy of the draft DRB decision at the
meeting and will receive a final DRB decision within ten business days.
         (c)   Once the Development Review Board approves the subdivision plat,
such approval shall be noted on two copies of the plat. One copy of the plat
shall be retained by the Administrator and one copy shall be returned to the
subdivider.
         (d)   If the subdivision plat is disapproved, the subdivider may make
the recommended changes and submit a revised plat to the Administrator
following the procedure for submission of a plat placed on hold.
         (e)   For final plat approval, the subdivider shall file the approved
final plat with the Register of Deeds of the county within 30 days of approval;
otherwise, such approval shall be null and void.
      (5)   Preparation of final plat and installation of improvements.
         (a)   Upon approval of the preliminary plat by the Development Review
Board, the petitioner may proceed with the preparation of the final plat, and
the installation of or arrangement for required improvements in accordance with
the approved preliminary plat and the requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   Prior to approval of a final plat, the petitioner shall have
installed the improvements provided herein. No final plat, which contains
private streets, will be accepted for review by the Administrator unless
accompanied by written notice prepared by a professional state engineer
acknowledging installation of such streets meet the applicable NCDOT standards
for the same type of streets and compliance with §
153.164.
         (c)   The final plat shall constitute only that portion of the
preliminary plat which the petitioner proposes to record and develop at that
time; such portion shall conform to all requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 11-16-2020; Ord. 2024-24, passed 9-3-2024)
§ 153.068 STREET, ALLEY, AND WALKWAY CLOSINGS.
   All petitions for closing of Department of Transportation maintained
streets, alleys, or walkways shall be made to the appropriate DOT District
Engineer. The county’s Planning Department shall be copied on all
communications for such.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.069 VESTED RIGHTS.
   (A) Purpose. The purpose of this section is to implement the provisions of
G.S. Chapter 160D pursuant to which a statutory zoning vested right is
established upon the approval of a site specific development plan or a phased
development plan. Nothing in this section shall be construed to require the
county to adopt an ordinance providing for vesting of rights upon approval of a
phased development plan.
   (B)   Establishment of a zoning vested right.
      (1)   A zoning vested right shall be deemed established upon the valid
approval, or conditional approval, by the appropriate approving body, as
applicable, of a site specific development plan or phased development plan,
following notice and public hearing, if applicable. Such vested right shall
confer upon the landowner the right to undertake and complete the development
and use of the property under the terms and conditions of the site specific
development plan or phased development plan including any amendments thereto.
      (2)   The approving authority may approve a site specific development
plan or phased development plan upon such terms and conditions as may
reasonably be necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
      (3)   Notwithstanding divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above, approval of a
site specific development plan or phased development plan with the condition
that a variance be obtained shall not confer a zoning vested right unless and
until the necessary variance is obtained.
      (4)   A site specific development plan or phased development plan shall
be deemed approved upon the effective date of the approval authority’s action
or ordinance relating thereto.
      (5)   The establishment of a zoning vested right shall not preclude the
application of overlay zoning that imposes additional requirements but does not
affect the allowable type or intensity of use, or ordinances or regulations
that are general in nature and are applicable to all property subject to land
use regulation by the county, including, but not limited to, building, fire,
plumbing, electrical, and mechanical codes. Otherwise, applicable new or
amended regulations shall become effective with respect to property that is
subject to a site specific development plan or phased development plan upon the
expiration or terminations of the vested right in accordance with this chapter.
      (6)   A zoning vested right is not a personal right, but shall attach to
and run with the applicable property. After approval of a site specific
development plan or phased development plan, all successors to the original
landowner(s) shall be entitled to exercise such right while applicable.
   (C)   Approval procedures and authority.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, an application for
site specific development plan or phased development plan approval shall be
processed in accordance with the procedures established by this chapter and
shall be considered by the designated approval authority for the specific type
of zoning or land use permit or approval for which application is made.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (C)(1) above, if the
authority to issue a particular zoning or land use permit or approval has been
delegated by this chapter to a board, committee, or administrative official
other than the Board of County Commissioners, Board of Adjustment, or other
planning agency, in order to obtain a zoning vested right, the landowner or
applicant shall request in writing at the time of application that the
application be considered and acted on by the Board of County Commissioners, as
applicable, following notice and public hearing as provided in G.S. Chapter
160D.
      (3)   In order for a zoning vested right to be established upon approval
of a site specific development plan or phased development plan, the applicant
shall indicate at the time of application, on a form to be provided by the
county, that a zoning vested right is being sought.
      (4)   Each map, plat, site plan, or other document evidencing a site
specific development plan or phased development plan shall contain the
following notation: “Approval of this plan establishes a zoning vested right
under G.S. Chapter 160D.
      (5)   Following approval or conditional approval of a site specific
development plan or phased development plan, nothing in this chapter shall
exempt such a plan from subsequent reviews and approvals to ensure compliance
with the terms and conditions of the original approval, provided that such
reviews and approvals are not inconsistent with the original approval.
      (6)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the revocation of the
original approval or other remedies for failure to comply with applicable terms
and conditions of the approval or this chapter.
      (7)   Nothing in this section shall preclude judicial determination,
based on common-law principals or other statutory provisions, that a vested
right exists in a particular case or that a compensable taking has occurred.
Except as expressly provided by the state general statutes and this section,
nothing in this section shall be construed to alter the existing common law.
   (D)   Duration.
      (1)   A zoning right that has been vested as provided in this chapter
shall remain vested for a period of two years unless specifically and
unambiguously provided otherwise pursuant to division (D)(2) below. This
vesting shall not be extended by any amendments or modifications to a site
specific development plan or phased development plan unless expressly provided
by the approval authority at the time the amendment or modification is
approved.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (D)(1) above, the Board
of Commissioners may provide that rights shall be vested for a period exceeding
two years but not exceeding five years where warranted in light of all relevant
circumstances, including, but not limited to, the size of the development, the
level of investment, the need for or desirability of the development, economic
cycles, and market conditions. These determinations shall be in the sound
discretion of the Board of Commissioners at the time the site specific
development plan or phased development plan is approved.
      (3)   Upon issuance of a building permit, the expiration provisions of
G.S. Chapter 160D and the revocation provisions of G.S. Chapter 160D shall
apply, except that a building permit shall not expire or be revoked because of
the running of time while a zoning vested right under this section is
outstanding.
   (E)   Termination. A zoning right that has been vested as provided in this
chapter shall terminate:
      (1)   At the end of the applicable vesting period with respect to
buildings and uses for which no valid building permit applications have been
filed;
      (2)   With the written consent of the affected owner(s);
      (3)   Upon findings by the Board of County Commissioners, by ordinance
after notice and a public hearing, that natural or human-made hazards on or in
the immediate vicinity of the property, if uncorrected, would pose a serious
threat to the public health, safety, and welfare if the project were to proceed
as contemplated in the site specific development plan;
      (4)   Upon payment to the affected owner(s) of compensation for all
costs, expenses, and other losses incurred by the owner(s), including, but not
limited to, all fees paid in consideration of financing, and all architectural,
planning, marketing, legal, and other consultant’s fees incurred after approval
by the county, together with interest thereon at the legal rate until paid.
Compensation shall not include any diminution in the value of the property
which is caused by such action;
      (5)   Upon findings by the Board of County Commissioners, by ordinance
after notice and a hearing, that the owner(s) or his or her representative
intentionally supplied inaccurate information or made material
misrepresentations which made a difference in the approval by the approval
authority of the size specific development plan or phased development plan; or
      (6)   Upon the enactment or promulgation of a state or federal law or
regulation that precludes development as contemplated in the site specific
development plan or phased development plan, in which case the approval
authority may modify the affected provisions, upon a finding that the change in
state or federal law has a fundamental effect on the plan, by ordinance after
notice and a hearing.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 11-16-2020)
ZONING AND OVERLAY DISTRICTS
§ 153.080 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   In order to implement the intent of this chapter, there are hereby
created 11 classes of districts with the designations of general purposes and
regulations as stated below.
   (B)   The boundaries of these districts are established as shown on the
“Official Zoning Map” (see §
153.081 for information on the zoning map):
      (1)   IND: Industrial District;
      (2)   LI: Light Industrial District;
      (3)   COMM: Commercial/Business District;
      (4)   O&I: Office and Institutional District;
      (5)   RA-20M: Residential/Agricultural District;
      (6)   RA-20R: Residential/Agricultural District;
      (7)   RA-30: Residential/Agricultural District;
      (8)   RA-40: Residential/Agricultural District;
      (9)   CONS: Conservation District;
      (10)   HCO: Highway Corridor Overlay District; and
      (11)   MCO: Military Corridor Overlay District.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.081 ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The map herein referred to, which is identified by the title, Official
Zoning Map of Harnett County, North Carolina, shall be known as the zoning map.
The map shall bear the adoption date of this chapter and the date of any
subsequent map amendments. It shall be kept filed at the county’s Department of
GIS and Land Records and shall bear the adoption date of this chapter and the
date of any subsequent map amendments.
   (B)   Interpretation of district boundaries. When uncertainty exists with
respect to the boundaries of any district as shown on the Official Zoning Map,
the following rules shall apply.
      (1)   Boundaries along street, highway, or alley centerlines or right-of-
way lines shall be construed as following such lines.
      (2)   Boundaries along railroad tracks shall be construed as being midway
between the main railroad tracks.
      (3)   Boundaries along plotted property lines and municipal boundary
lines shall be construed as following such lines.
      (4)   Boundaries indicated as following shorelines shall be construed to
follow such shorelines and in event of change in the shoreline, shall be
construed as moving with the actual shoreline.
      (5)   In the absence of established features, or lines, or specified
distances on the zoning map, district boundary locations shall be determined by
scaling the distance on the map.
      (6)   Where physical conditions existing on the ground are at variance
with those shown on the zoning map, or in other circumstances not covered
herein, the Board of Adjustment shall interpret district boundary locations.
      (7)   Where a district zoning boundary divides a lot, the Board of
Adjustment may, as a special exception, permit the extension of either district
into portions of the lot not to exceed 50 feet beyond the district boundary
line.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.082 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT – IND.
   The purpose of this district, Industrial (IND), is to promote and protect
both existing industrial activities and potential sites which are considered
suitable for industrial use, to prohibit uses of land which would substantially
interfere with the continuation of uses permitted in the district, and to
promote the operation of well-planned and maintained industrial facilities.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.083 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL – LI.
   The purpose of the Light Industrial District (LI) is to function as a
transitional use between the more intense general manufacturing and industrial
uses and other less intense uses.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.084 COMMERCIAL – COMM.
   It is the purpose of the Commercial/Business District (COMM) to accommodate
the widest variety of commercial, wholesale, and retail businesses in areas
that are best located and suited for such uses.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.085 OFFICE AND INSTITUTIONAL – O&I.
   (A)   Purpose. 
      (1)   The purpose and intent of the Office/Institutional District (O&I)
is to establish procedural and substantive standards for the Planning Board’s
review and approval of development on large tracts of land where the
predominant use is to be college, university, hospital, clinics, public
cultural facilities, offices for business and professional use, light
manufacturing, and related functions.
      (2)   The objective of this section and the O&I District is to allow for
growth and development while protecting the larger community, nearby
neighborhoods, and the environment from impacts accompanying major new
development. A key feature of this district is the preparation of a development
plan that would allow the property owner, immediate neighbors, and the larger
community to understand specifically what levels of development are being
proposed, and what impacts would likely accompany the development, so that
mitigation measures can be designed and implemented.
   (B)   Overview of development review procedures.
      (1)   Procedures in this zoning district are designed to facilitate:
         (a)   Articulation of development plans that involve multiple
buildings in multiple locations over an extended time period on a given tract
of land, as defined in a development plan; and
         (b)   Identification of total infrastructure needs for such proposed
development as specified in a development plan and cumulative impacts resulting
from full development as specified in a development plan.
      (2)   To this end, owners of property zoned O&I are required to prepare a
development plan, as described in §
153.062 for review and approval by the Planning Board. For buildings that are
included in an approved development plan, site development permits for
individual buildings are to be issued by the Administrator, following a
determination by the Administrator that such individual building plans are
generally consistent with the Planning Board approved development plan.
      (3)   For development proposed within an O&I Zoning District that is not
included in a Planning Board approved development plan, but is a minor change
according to the provisions of this section, the Administrator may approve a
change to the development plan and issue a site development permit.
      (4)   For development proposed within an O&I Zoning District that is not
included in a Planning Board approved development plan and that cannot be
considered a minor change to the plan according to the provisions of this
section, in such development situations the applicant shall apply to the
Planning Board for an amendment to the development plan.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.086 RESIDENTIAL/AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT - RA-20M.
   The RA-20M Residential/Agricultural District (RA-20M) is established
primarily to support agricultural and residential development. Inclusive in
such higher density residential developments may consist of single-family
dwellings, multifamily dwellings, duplexes, and manufactured home parks.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.087 RESIDENTIAL/AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT - RA-20R.
   (A)   The RA-20R Residential/Agricultural District (RA-20R) is established
primarily to support agricultural and residential development.
   (B)   Inclusive in such higher density residential developments may consist
of single-family dwellings, multifamily dwellings, and duplexes.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.088 RESIDENTIAL/AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT - RA-30.
   The RA-30 Residential/Agricultural District (RA-30) is established as
primarily a single-family residential and agricultural district, but includes
occasional two-family and multifamily structures.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.089 RESIDENTIAL/AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT - RA-40.
   The RA-40 Residential/Agricultural District (RA-40) is established
exclusively as a single-family residential and agricultural district.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.090 CONSERVATION - CONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Conservation District is to encourage the
preservation of, and continued use of, the land for conservation purposes in
its natural state, and to prohibit intrusive development of the land in areas
with alluvial soils, perennial streams, or that are subject to flooding or
considered wetlands.
   (B)   District dimensions. 
 
Water Body         District Shall Be Measured on Each Side from
Black River        300 ft. from center of river, north of intersection with SR
                   1552
Black River        200 ft. from center of river, south of intersection with SR
                   1552
Cape Fear River    500 ft. from water’s edge at normal flow
Other major creeks 200 ft. from each side of main channel
 
   (C)   Exemptions. Lots in subdivisions established prior to the date of
adoption of zoning at the same location (July 18, 1988, June 5, 2000, June 18,
2007, or June 15, 2009) will be exempt from the no building requirements of the
Conservation District, but shall adhere to the use and setback requirements of
the RA-30 Zoning District, and all provisions of this chapter applicable to the
District.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.091 HIGHWAY CORRIDOR OVERLAY DISTRICT - HCO.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the intent of the Highway Corridor Overlay District
(HCO) to protect natural resources, provide landscape improvements, and enhance
the overall appearance of the corridors identified. This district has
development standards established to regulate development within a corridor.
The Highway Corridor Overlay District standards, which apply to the entire
length of a corridor becomes effective once a corridor has been studied, a plan
adopted, and the area subsequently identified on the Official Zoning Map.
Development standards from the Highway Corridor Overlay District apply to all
parcels within 600 feet of the right-of-way on both sides of the street as
shown on the Official Zoning Map, except in such instances in which the
corridor width has been modified by the Board of Commissioners. In cases where
a portion of a tract of land lies within the Highway Corridor Overlay District,
the entire tract shall fall into the same regulation.
   (B)   Permitted and special uses. The permitted uses shall be the same as
those in the underlying zoning districts. The special uses shall be the same as
those in the underlying zoning districts.
   (C)   Architectural standards.
      (1)   Applicability.
         (a)   The following regulations shall apply to all new nonresidential
structures and development site plan submittals located within the Highway
Corridor Overlay Zoning District.
         (b)   Expansions shall comply with these regulations at such time that
the expansion totals 50% or more of the existing building size. The total
percentage of building expansions shall be combined over a five-year period. At
such time that the percentage of building expansions reaches 50% or more of the
original building size, these regulations shall be met for that part of the
structure included in the expansion. In cases where an expansion is equal to or
greater than the total square footage of the existing building, both the
expansion and the existing building shall also be brought into compliance with
these regulations. The total shall be combined over a five-year period.
         (c)   Conversions of structures formerly used for residential purposes
and changes of uses shall comply with the regulations included herein.
      (2)   Building materials and colors.
         (a)   Front facades and exterior walls visible from the public right
(s)-of-way shall be composed of at least 50% approved primary materials, listed
below. Secondary materials may be used on building walls not visible from a
public right(s)-of-way.
            1.   Primary building materials. The following materials shall be
permitted as primary building materials. The material shall be permitted if the
surface is constructed to simulate brick or stone and only as approved by the
Administrator:
               a.   Brick;
               b.   Stone;
               c.   Fiber cement siding; and/or
               d.   Architectural concrete.
            2.   Secondary building materials. The following materials shall be
prohibited as primary building materials but shall be allowed as secondary
material along with the approved primary building materials or as primary
elements on walls not required to meet these requirements. Secondary materials
are not required. When used, no more than 30% of front facades and exterior
walls visible from the public right(s)-of-way shall be composed of the
materials listed herein:
               a.   Stucco;
               b.   Exterior insulation finishing system (EIFS);
               c.   Painted or stained concrete;
               d.   Metal; and/or
               e.   Split-face block.
            3. Supplemental building materials. The following materials shall
be allowed as supplemental materials along with primary and secondary
materials. Supplementary building materials are not required. When used, no
more than 10% of exterior walls shall be composed of the materials listed
herein.
               a.   Vinyl siding;
               b.   Cast concrete; and/or
               c.   Smooth-faced concrete.
            4.   Accessory structures. Building materials and colors on
accessory structures shall be compatible with that approved for the primary
structure. For example, canopies permitted as part of a gas station may use a
combination of brick columns and a metal canopy that is similar in color to the
primary structure.
         (b)   For purposes of this chapter, the term VISIBLE FROM THE PUBLIC
RIGHT(S)-OF-WAY shall mean visible from any existing public right(s)-of-way or
any right(s)-of-way intended for future dedication for public use.
Additionally, for purposes of this section, only those public right(s)-of-way
located within the Highway Corridor Overlay Zoning District shall be considered
for compliance with these regulations.
         (c)   Two or more materials shall be combined on one facade; with the
heavier material(s) being installed nearer to the ground or below other
materials.
         (d)   The number of colors used shall be limited to no more than three
discernable colors or ranges of complementary hues. The dominate color shall
constitute a minimum of 60% of the facade, excluding windows, doors, and the
like. Facade colors shall be of low reflectance earth tone, muted, subtle, and/
or neutral colors. Building trim may feature brighter colors, but neon tubing
is not allowed as an accent material. The use of high intensity, metallic,
fluorescent, or neon colors shall be prohibited. Variations in color schemes
are encouraged in order to articulate entryways, architectural features, and
public amenities so as to give greater recognition to these features.
      (3)   Building design, facades, and massing. 
         (a)   Facades shall include changes in wall plane, incorporating at
least one change in wall plane, such as recesses and projections, along at
least 20% of the length of the facade at a depth of at least 3% of the entire
length of the building.
            1.   Buildings of 10,000 square feet or less shall include a change
in wall plane for every 50 feet of length.
            2.   Buildings greater than 10,000 square feet shall include a
change in wall plane for every 100 feet of length.
         (b)   Rooflines shall vary in height, material, treatment, direction,
and the like and shall not extend in a continuous plane for more than 50 feet
to reduce the scale of structures and to increase visual interest. Roof shape,
such as flat, hip, mansard, or gable, and material shall be architecturally
compatible with the facade elements of the rest of the building.
         (c)   Buildings with flat roofs or with roof pitches of 3:12 or less
shall maintain a parapet wall along all walls visible from the public right(s)-
of-way. Parapet walls shall have decorative cornices or caps.
         (d)   If roof cornices or caps have been removed or damaged on an
existing building, renovations of such building shall include retaining,
repairing, and replacing the roof cornices or caps, unless justification can be
made to the Administrator as to why that is not feasible.
      (4)   Architectural standard design alternatives. Alternative design
plans, building materials, landscaping, and/or construction techniques may be
used when unreasonable or impractical situations would result from the strict
application of architectural standards of this section. Such situations may
result from unique site conditions, innovative design applications, and/or
unified development design. The review and approval of architectural standard
design alternatives shall be reviewed and decided by the Planning Board. All
findings specified below for the granting of such a request with the
architectural standard design alternatives shall be provided in writing and
signed by the Administrator. One copy shall be provided to the applicant and
another shall be retained as a part of the permanent record of the
determination of the Planning Board. The following criteria shall be used in
determining whether an architectural standard design alternative can be
accepted by the Planning Board in lieu of meeting the requirements of this
section:
         (a)   The proposal includes a clear and concise explanation of the
specific standards that cannot be met and how the alternative methods proposed
will achieve the intent of this section;
         (b)   The proposal represents the use of alternative methods and/or
materials (including, but not limited to: building materials, massing,
materials, and scale; orientation in relation to the public right(s)-of-way;
facade treatment; landscaping; lighting; and open space) which will result in a
development pattern which is equivalent to or greater than that required by
this chapter;
         (c)   The proposed use and design alternative is compatible with
adjacent land uses;
         (d)   The proposal is compatible with and will enhance the use or
value of adjacent and area properties;
         (e)   The proposal is consistent with the intent of adopted county
plans; and
         (f)   The proposed development standards are, in all other aspects,
consistent with the intent and purpose of this chapter.
   (D)   Parking lot (off-street parking) landscaping.
      (1)   Parking lots, loading areas, and other vehicle use areas shall be
planted with one tree and two shrubs for every ten parking spaces required.
      (2)   At least 65% of the required parking lot trees shall be large shade
trees.
      (3)   Trees and shrubs shall be planted within 15 feet of the vehicle use
areas.
      (4)   Developments containing 30 or more parking spaces, 50% of the trees
and shrubs required shall be planted in islands or medians located within the
parking lot.
      (5)   A consecutive strip of parking spaces shall include landscape
islands every 20 spaces apart and at the ends of all parking rows.
      (6)   Landscape islands shall be grassed and mowed, covered with organic
material (e.g., pine mulch), or a combination of the two.
      (7)   In calculating the number of trees and shrubs, standard rounding
procedures shall be followed (e.g., one and one-half or greater will become
two).
   (E)   Additional development standards.
      (1)   Driveways. Driveways serving a new development parcel shall be
permitted in accordance with the standards of NCDOT; however, the county’s
Planning Board and Board of Commissioners may require more strict standards as
conditions of approval during the site plan review, if it is determined that
the additional conditions may improve traffic movement and safety. Developers
of nonresidential uses are required to share parking areas and driveways with
adjoining developments. Also, no landscaping or structures shall be allowed
near the intersections of driveways and streets that would impede safe vision
of traffic. Subdivision of land with multiple smaller parcels having frontage
on the roadway along the corridor will not be allowed. NCDOT and the county
prohibit this type of development within the corridor. Development will be
required to have shared access to the roadway as approved by NCDOT and the
county.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/30f7820eea5cd7ea02f3978cb658a054226f91aa/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1544.png]
      (2)   Outdoor storage. Outdoor storage, when permitted, shall be screened
from view so that it is not visible from a right(s)-of-way or adjacent property
(s). Any accessory outdoor storage area shall comply with the requirements set
forth in §
153.158(B)(4).
      (3)   Signs.
         (a)   Business and other signs.
            1.   All business and other signs located within the Highway
Corridor Overlay Zoning District shall comply with the regulations of this
section, as well as with all other sign requirements of this chapter.
            2.   A minimum of one large and two small trees per detached sign
on the property shall be planted, if not existing, within the perimeter
planting strip.
         (b)   Outdoor advertising signs. No outdoor advertising signs shall be
allowed within the Highway Corridor Overlay District or on any property(s) that
are partially located within the Highway Corridor Overlay District, except in
compliance with §
153.044.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.092 MILITARY CORRIDOR OVERLAY DISTRICT - MCO.
   (A)   Purpose. 
      (1)   The main purpose of this district is to ensure the compatibility
between air and exercise operations associated with local military
installations occurring at varying hours and land uses on properties nearby, in
terms of potential interference with safe aircraft operations, potential
threats from falling aircraft, potential impacts of noise, and potential
adverse impacts of other military operations and practices, such as small arms
and artillery training and exercises, and prescribed or controlled burning of
forested land.
      (2)   Compatibility of land uses is encouraged within the five mile area
surrounding the local military installation to further the purpose of the
installation, as well as to preserve the quality of life of surrounding
property owners. Compatibility of surrounding land uses may encourage wildlife
preservation and reduce potential interference of light pollution.
      (3)   Prescribed or controlled burning typically takes place on managed
lands as a method of reducing the risk of catastrophic fires on those and
adjacent lands. Potential adverse effects of controlled burning includes risk
to smoke-sensitive individuals as well as reduced visibility on public right
(s)-of-way.
   (B)   District dimensions. The Military Corridor Overlay Zone shall be
identified as including those properties located either fully or partially
within five miles of the jurisdictional boundary of a military base.
   (C)   Permitted and special uses. 
      (1)   The permitted uses shall be the same as those in the underlying
zoning districts. The special uses shall be the same as those in the underlying
zoning districts. Reasonable regulations within applicable aircraft noise
zones, imaginary surfaces, and active airspace, are limited to the height of
man- made structures, incompatible uses of land, and incompatible development
activities.
      (2)   In addition to the standards set forth in this section, all uses
and structures must comply with all other applicable local, state, and federal
regulations, including Title 14, Part 77 CFR [Code of Federal Regulations].
Further, state level coordination is required for, but may not be limited to:
         (a)   Certain modifications to the zoning map or of permitted uses of
land, if proposed within five miles of Fort Bragg (G.S. § 160D-601(b));
         (b)   Certain tall buildings and structures proposed within five miles
of Fort Bragg (G.S. §§ 143-151.70 et seq.);
         (c)   Proposed wind energy facilities that require approval by the
N.C. Department of Environmental Quality (G.S. §§ 143-215.115, et seq.).
      (3)   To the extent that there is a conflict between the terms of the
RLUAC Coordination Agreement or this section and state law, state law shall
prevail.
   (D)   Required review. To ensure compliance with G.S.§ 160D-601(b),
notification to the military installation, by way of the Regional Land Use
Advisory Council (RULAC) coordination agreement, shall be made on any adoptions
or modifications to this section that may change or affect the permitted uses
of land located within five miles of a military installation. In addition,
notification shall be made to the military installation on any development
projects, including but not limited to subdivisions, site plans,
telecommunications towers, windmills, and special use permits, located within
the same distance. The military installation, via RULAC, shall be afforded the
opportunity to provide comment or analysis on such adoptions, modifications, or
developments regarding compatibility. Any comments provided prior to the public
hearing or other applicable final review shall be considered by the Board of
Commissioners or approving body in rendering a final determination.
   (E)   Notification procedures. All plats for site plans and both residential
and nonresidential subdivisions located within the Military Corridor Overlay
Zoning District, including those for minor subdivisions and preliminary and
final major subdivisions, shall include a statement indicating that such lots
are located in the district. Further, the required statement shall indicate
that homes within the overlay district may, from time to time, be subject to
potential adverse effects of operations on the military installation.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 2-17-2014; Res. passed 11-16-2020; Res.
2021-35, passed 10-18-2021)
§ 153.093 DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Exemptions from minimum dimensional requirements. Lots for public
utilities and private utilities for public purposes other than distribution
lines, including, but not limited to, electric substations, telephone exchange
buildings, and water towers, shall not be required to meet divisions (A)(2),
(B), and (D) below. Applications for such shall include an accurate site
specific plan using exempted requirements as development guidelines and shall
note the purpose for which the lot is to be utilized.
      (2)   Lot requirements.
         (a)   Lot sizes, shapes, and locations shall be made with due regard
to topographic conditions, contemplated use, and the surrounding area. Every
lot shall front or abut a street for a distance of at least 80 feet except on
the bulb of a cul-de-sac where 40 feet will be acceptable, unless specified
otherwise in this chapter.
         (b)   Extending from the front property line to the rear property
line, both side lot lines shall be substantially perpendicular to the street
line.
         (c)   Double frontage or reverse frontage lots shall be avoided except
where necessary to separate residential development from through traffic or
nonresidential uses.
      (3)   Reduction of lot and yard areas prohibited. No yard or lot existing
at the time of passage of this chapter shall be reduced in size or area below
the minimum requirements set forth herein. Yards or lots created after the
effective date of this chapter shall meet at least the minimum requirements
established by this chapter.
      (4)   Lot width and yards. Lot width shall be the length as measured at
the front property line or right-of-way line except on the bulb of a cul-de-sac
as specified herein. The diagrams below are provided to assist in interpreting
definitions and regulations of lot width and lot yards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/30f7820eea5cd7ea02f3978cb658a054226f91aa/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1546.png]
      (5)   Front yard setback. 
         (a)   Length measured from the public right-of-way line to the
structure (excluding steps). In cases where no public right-of-way exists, the
measurement shall be from the access easement line; or, if no public right-of-
way or access easement exists, the measurement shall be made from the property
line.
         (b)   Front yards shall be devoted for sidewalks, grass, landscaping,
and driveways.
      (6)   Rear yard setback. Length measured from the rear property line
(excluding steps).
      (7)   Side yard setback. Length measured from the side property lines.
      (8)   Side yard setback, corner lot. 
         (a)   Length measured from the public right-of-way located along the
side yard. In cases where no public right-of-way exists, the measurement shall
be from the easement line.
         (b)   Accessory buildings on the side of the lot abutting the side
street shall not be closer to the lot line abutting that side street than the
distance specified for front yards of lots fronting on such side street.
      (9)   Measuring setbacks. Required setback distances are generally based
on rectangular lots. Nonrectangular lots, lots with three sides or more than
four sides, and other irregularly shaped lots require special measurement
techniques to ensure proper separation between structures and property lines.
The following is provided to aid in determining the appropriate location for
measuring building setbacks on irregular lots. The Administrator is authorized
to establish the front, rear, and/or side setback and property lines in cases
of uncertainty. See §
153.151(A) for additional information regarding measurement of setbacks on
properties located along public right(s)-of-way identified on the county’s
comprehensive transportation plan.
         (a)   Front setback.
            1.   New lots. New lots shall be developed so that the minimum
required front setback shall be maintained for the same distance back into the
property and perpendicular to the front line.
            2.   Existing lots. Front setbacks on existing lots shall be
measured from the right-of-way, easement, or front property line (as required
by this chapter) unless the line does not meet the minimum lot width
requirement. In such cases, the front setback shall be measured from a point on
the lot, nearest the front line, that complies with the minimum lot width
requirements of the zoning district in which it is located.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/30f7820eea5cd7ea02f3978cb658a054226f91aa/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1548.png]
         (b)   Rear setback. On irregularly shaped lots, the rear setback is
measured from an imaginary line that:
             1.   Is within the lot;
            2.   Is drawn at a point most distant from the front property line
where the lot is ten feet in width;
            3.   Is parallel to the front property line; and
            4.   Extends across the entire width of the lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/30f7820eea5cd7ea02f3978cb658a054226f91aa/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1550.png]
         (c)   Side setback. All property lines that are not front or rear
property lines shall be considered side property lines for purposes of
measuring setbacks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/30f7820eea5cd7ea02f3978cb658a054226f91aa/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1552.png]
      (10)   Building height, required. The maximum height of any structure
shall be the same as required by the underlying zoning district unless
otherwise stated herein. Buildings located within the rural center, employment
mixed use, or compact mixed use land use classifications are exempt from the
district height requirement if they conform to the following:
         (a)   Highest point of the building shall not exceed 85 feet; and
         (b)   Fire Code Official shall certify that the building is designed
and equipped to provide adequate fire protection. All buildings that exceed
maximum building height of 35 feet shall provide automatic sprinkler system in
accordance with the North Carolina State Building Code.
   (B)   Residential zoning minimum dimensional requirements.
Zoning District RA-40 RA-30 RA-20M RA-20R
Zoning District                                   RA-40   RA-30   RA-20M RA-20R
Connection to public water and/or sewer including 35,000  25,000  15,000 15,000
any NCDOT right-of-way (square feet)
Maximum building height, required                 35 ft.  35 ft.  35 ft. 35 ft.
Minimum front yard setback                        35 ft.  35 ft.  35 ft. 35 ft.
Minimum lot area (square feet)                    40,000  30,000  20,000 20,000
Minimum lot width                                 150 ft. 100 ft. 80 ft. 80 ft.
Minimum rear yard setback                         25 ft.  25 ft.  25 ft. 25 ft.
Minimum side yard setback, corner lot             20 ft.  20 ft.  20 ft. 20 ft.
Minimum side yard setback, corner lot on major    35 ft.  35 ft.  35 ft. 35 ft.
thoroughfare
Minimum side yard setback                         10 ft.  10 ft.  10 ft. 10 ft.
 
   (C)   Residential minimum dimensional and amenity requirements for major
subdivisions.
      (1)   Compatibility design concept. 
         (a)   The compatibility design concept has been established for the
following purposes:
            1.   To protect rural character and agricultural lands;
            2.   To encourage compatibility between existing land uses and new
development;
            3.   To provide for growth near infrastructure; and
            4.   To improve the quality of development through amenities.
         (b)   Compatibility development requirements are made up of four key
components: zoning district, land use class, minimum lot size, and open space.
The table below contains the regulations for this type of development. The
subject property(s) for this use shall be compatible with the zoning district
and land use class. The minimum lot size stated is only permitted if the
required improvements indicated are met.
      (2)   Land use class. The land use classifications listed herein shall
coincide with the county’s land use plan. Definitions of the classifications
and further information shall be found in the county’s land use plan:
         (a)   PA: protected areas;
         (b)   ESA: environmentally sensitive areas;
         (c)   CDTA: compatibility development target areas;
         (d)   MCB: military corridor buffer;
         (e)   ARR: agricultural and rural residential;
         (f)   LDR: low density residential;
         (g)   MDR medium density residential;
         (h)   RC: rural centers;
         (i)   CMU: compact mixed use; and
         (j)   EMU: employment mixed use.
      (3)   Minimum lot size. While all lots shall not all be of equal size,
lots within the development shall be equal to or larger than the indicated
minimum lot size.
      (4)   Amenities and design standards. All of the criteria listed herein
are subject to the regulations stated in §§
153.150 through 153.164.
         (a)   Amenities. Amenities that shall be provided are indicated as
such with a checkmark () and amenities that should be provided, but are not
required, are indicated as such with a dash (-).
         (b)   Sidewalks. A checkmark and an asterisk (*) indicates that
sidewalks shall be constructed on both sides of the street.
         (c)   Public utilities. Connection shall be provided to at least one
public utility (either public water or public sewer) when indicated as such
with a “1” and connection shall be provided to both public utilities (public
water and sewer) when indicated as such with a “2”.
         (d)   Street pavement width. A minimum 50-foot right-of-way width
shall be required, but it is recommended that a 60-foot right-of-way width be
provided for all residential streets with curb and gutter and sidewalks.
         (e)   Streetscape buffers shall be required in all major subdivisions.
Prime views and vistas shall be required for all subdivisions in which open
space is provided. These requirements can be found in §
153.158.
         (f)   Perimeter buffer.
            1.   A perimeter buffer shall be required on all subdivisions with
lots of 7,500 square feet or less, and shall be maintained as open space.
            2.   In no case shall this required buffer area be counted toward
the minimum square footage requirement for individual lots.
            3.   Retaining existing vegetation is encouraged.
            4.   A minimum of a “Type A buffer”, as defined in §
153.158(A)(8)(b), shall be required.
      (5)   Compatibility design concept table.
  Lot   Front Rear Side Corner Open  Street Sidewalks Public    Street   Required
  Width Yard  Yard Yard Side   Space Trees  and Curb  Utilities Pavement Perimeter
                        Yard                & Gutter            Width    Buffer
                           Lot   Front Rear Side Corner Open  Street Sidewalks Public    Street   Required
                           Width Yard  Yard Yard Side   Space Trees  and Curb  Utilities Pavement Perimeter
                                                 Yard                & Gutter            Width    Buffer
RA-40 ZONING
LAND USE CLASS: LD, MDR, RC, CMU, EMU, ARR, ESA, PA
≥ 40,000 sq. ft. minimum 150'  35'   25'  10'  20'    0%    -      -         -         -        -
lots
≥ 35,000 sq. ft. minimum 150'  35'   25'  10'  20'    0%    -      -         1         -        -
lots
≥ 28,000 sq. ft. minimum 100'  35'   25'  10'  20'    10%   T      T         1         -        -
lots
LAND USE CLASS: MDR, RC, CMU, EMU
≥ 21,000 sq. ft. minimum 100'  35'   25'  10'  20'    20%   T      T         1         -        -
lots
≥ 17,500 sq. ft. minimum 80'   35'   20'  10'  10'    30%   T      T         2         29'      T
lots
RA-30 ZONING
LAND USE CLASS: LD, MDR, RC, CMU, EMU, ARR, ESA, PA
≥ 30,000 sq. ft. minimum 100'  35'   25'  10'  20'    0%    -      -         -         -        -
lots
≥ 25,000 sq. ft. minimum 100'  35'   25'  10'  20'    0%    -      -         1         -        -
lots
≥ 20,000 sq. ft. minimum 80'   35'   20'  10'  20'    10%   T      T         1         -        -
lots
LAND USE CLASS: MDR, RC, CMU, EMU
≥ 15,000 sq. ft. minimum 80'   30'   20'  10'  20'    20%   T      T         1         -        -
lots
≥ 12,500 sq. ft. minimum 70'   25'   20'  10'  20'    30%   T      T         2         29'      T
lots
RA-20R(M) ZONING
LAND USE CLASS: LD, MDR, RC, CMU, EMU, ARR, ESA, PA
≥ 20,000 sq. ft. minimum 80'   35'   25'  10'  20'    0%    -      -         -         -        -
lots
≥ 15,000 sq. ft. minimum 80'   30'   20'  10'  20'    0%    T      T         1         -        -
lots
≥ 12,000 sq. ft. minimum 70'   25'   20'  10'  20'    20%   T      T         2         29'      -
lots
LAND USE CLASS: MDR, RC, CMU, EMU
≥ 10,000 sq. ft. minimum 70'   20'   15'  5'   15'    20%   T      T         2         29'      T
lots
-: OPTIONAL | T : REQUIRED | 1: PUBLIC WATER OR SEWER | 2: PUBLIC WATER AND SEWER
   
   (D)   Nonresidential zoning minimum dimensional requirements.
Zoning District IND LI COMM O&I CONS HCO
Zoning District            IND        LI         COMM     O&I    CONS     HCO
Maximum Building height,   35 ft.     35 ft.     35 ft.   35 ft. 35 ft.   UD
unless otherwise permitted
Minimum front yard setback 50 ft.     50 ft.     35 ft.   DP     35 ft.3* 50 ft
Minimum lot area (square   43,560     43,560     30,000   DP     30,000   UD
feet)
Minimum lot width          150 ft.    150 ft.    100 ft.  DP     100 ft.  UD
Minimum rear yard setback  25 ft.1*   25 ft.1*   25 ft.   DP     25 ft.3* UD
Minimum side yard setback  0 ft.1*    0 ft.1*    0 ft.2*  DP     10 ft.3* UD
Minimum side yard setback, 25 ft.1*4* 25 ft.1*4* 20 ft.4* DP     20 ft.   UD
corner lot
1* shall mean the listed requirement stands unless adjacent property is zoned
residential; then the setback shall be 50 feet.
 
2* shall mean the listed requirement stands unless adjacent property is zoned
residential; then the setback shall be 20 feet.
 
3* shall mean that the listed requirement stands and applies to single-family
dwellings with exception that when the single-family dwelling yard is located
adjacent to the rivers or creeks (listed below) the yard requirement shall be
as follows:
 
   Minimum yard for Cape Fear: 250 ft.
 
   Minimum yard for Black River: 150 ft.
 
   Minimum yard for other creeks: 100 ft.
 
4* shall mean the listed requirement stands unless the lot is adjacent to an
access easement and/or private street; then the setback shall be 15 feet.
 
UD shall stand for “Underlying Zoning District” meaning that, where indicated,
the regulations of the underlying zoning district shall prevail.
 
DP shall stand for “development plan” meaning that, where indicated, the
regulations for the specified item shall be stated in the required development
plan in accordance with §
153.066(C)(2).
 
   (E)   Nonresidential minimum dimensional and amenity requirements for major
subdivisions.  Nonresidential major subdivision shall meet the requirements of
this chapter for residential major subdivisions, except in the following cases.
      (1)   All lots shall meet the standard minimum lot size of the zoning
district in which they are located.
      (2)   Concrete curb and gutter shall be required.
      (3)   Sidewalks shall be required on all lots. The final subdivision plat
shall include a notation regarding maintenance of sidewalks.
      (4)   At least one public utility, either water or sewer, shall be
available.
      (5)   (a)   When located adjacent to a residential zoning district, a
perimeter buffer shall be required, as required by this chapter.
         (b)   The buffer shall be installed prior to approval of the final
subdivision plat.
         (c)   Specific uses may require additional buffering or screening at
the time of site plan review.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 6-18-2012; Res. passed 3-21-2016; Res.
passed 6-18-2018; Res. passed 7-15-2019)
USE REGULATIONS
§ 153.105 USE TYPES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General applicability.
      (1)   Any use not specifically designated as either a permitted or
special use in a zoning district or the use appears to fit into two or more
categories, the proposed use may be classified the same as the most similar use
listed. In utilizing this type of classification method, the Zoning
Administrator shall utilize the following factors: types of activities that
will occur, types of equipment, and processes that will be used; density;
intensity of development; building and site arrangement; environmental effects;
anticipated traffic amount, parking demands; noise; light; vibration; odor;
hours of operation; frequency, number, and existence of residents, customers,
or employees; and impacts on adjacent structures, uses, or lands created by the
proposed use. Uses not listed or classified as a similar use may be included by
following the amendment process described elsewhere in this subchapter. The
following uses shall be expressly prohibited: abandoned manufactured homes.
         (a)   Unless otherwise provided, manufactured homes that are
considered to be abandoned according to the definition for abandoned
manufactured homes shall be prohibited in all zoning districts within the
county. Once a determination has been made by the Administrator or his or her
authorized agent that a manufactured home is abandoned then the Administrator
shall take action to abate the violation using any of the enforcement
procedures in §
153.999.
         (b)   The county may require the removal of junked or abandoned
manufactured homes from public grounds, including but not limited to public or
private street right(s)-of-way or private property upon finding that such
removal is necessary and desirable to promote or enhance community,
neighborhood, or area appearance or to abate public health or safety nuisances.
      (2)   Existing nonresidential development applying for permits to expand
shall follow the requirements indicated in division (B) below.
                                                                USE   BUILDING
 IND LI COMM O&I CONS RA-40 RA-30 RA-20R RA-20M PARKING GROUP CODE
                                                                LEVEL CLASS
                                        RA-  RA-  RA-   RA-                USE   BUILDING
               IND LI COMM O&I CONS 40  30  20R  20M  PARKING      GROUP CODE
                                                                           LEVEL CLASS
ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES
Customary home                          P *  P*   P*    P*                 1
occupations
Education:
typically
related
accessory uses
(e.g.,                                                        See O&I
dormitories,   P   P         P          P    P    P     P     District
modular units,                                                Regulati ons
stadiums,
auditoriums,
museums and
the like)
Junk motor
vehicles (on                            P *  P*   P*    P*
private
property)
Kennel,
private                                 P *  P*   P*    P*                 1
accessory
Religious
structures
related
accessory uses
(e.g.,
rectories,     S   S   P     P          P    P    P     P                  2
parsonages,
manses, parish
houses,
cemeteries,
mausoleums)
Solar energy   P*  P*  P*    P*         P *  P*   P*    P*
system
Swimming pools P*  P*  P*    P*         P *  P*   P*    P*                 1
Wind energy    P*  P*  P*    P*         P *  P*   P*    P*
system
AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY USES
Bona fide farm
and            P   P   P          P     P    P    P     P                  1
agritourism
Nursery                           P*    P *  P*   P*    P*    1 per 500    2     M
                                                              sq. ft.
Preserves
(nature,       P   P   P     P    P     P    P    P     P                  1
wildlife, or
forest)
COMMERCIAL USES
Existing                                                      As required
commercial                                                    by
uses applying                P               S    S     S     underlying   3
for permits to                                                use
expand
Animal Services
Kennels,
boarding                                                      1 per
stables, and   S   S   S                S    S    S     S     employee + 1 3     B
other similar                                                 per kennel
regulated land                                                or pen
uses
Veterinarian                                                  1 per 300
service,       S*  P*  P*    P*         S *  S*   S*    S*    sq. ft.      3     B
indoor
Veterinarian
service, with  S*  P*  S*    S*         S *  S*   S*    S*    1 per 300    3     B
outdoor                                                       sq. ft.
facilities
                                                              1 per 4
Zoo and                S*                    S*   S*    S*    persons (at  4
petting zoo                                                   max
                                                              capacity)
Eating and Drinking Services
Bar, tavern,
and            P*  S*  P*                                     1 per 2      3     A
entertainment                                                 seats
venue
                                                              1 per 4
Restaurant     P*  P*  P*    P*         S *  S*   S*    S*    seats + 1    3     A
                                                              per 2
                                                              employees
Lodging Services
Bed and                                                       1 per room +
breakfast                               S *  S*   S*    S*    1 per        3     R
                                                              employee
                                                              1 per room +
Boarding house         S*                         S*    S*    1 per        3     R
                                                              employee
                                                              1 per room +
Hotel or motel S   P   P     P                                1 per 2      3     R
                                                              employees
Homeless       S*      S*                    S*   S*    S*    1 per 400    3     R
shelter                                                       sq. ft.
Recreational           S*         S*    S *  S*   S*    S*    1 per site   3
campground
Offices, General
Business                                                      1 per 300
service        P   P   P     P                                sq. ft.      3     B
establishment
Offices                                                       1 per 200
(business or   P   P   P     P          S    S    S     S     sq. ft.      3     B
professional)
Offices        P   P   P     P          S    S    S     S     1 per 200    3     B
(governmental)                                                sq. ft.
Personal Services
Laundromat     P   P   P     P          S    S    S     S     1 per 150    3
                                                              sq. ft.
Massage and
bodywork spa,                                                 3 per
or therapy             P*    P*              S*   S*    S*    licensed     3     B
practice,                                                     therapist
licensed
Massage and
bodywork                                                      1 per 300
therapy        S*                                             sq. ft.      4     B
practice,
unlicensed
Personal                                                      1 per 300
service        P   P   P                S    S    S     S     sq. ft.            B
establishment
Recreational Facilities
Athletic               P*    P*              P*   P*    P*    25 per field
fields,                S*    S*         S *  S*   S*    S*    + 1 per 200  3     A
private                                                       sq. ft.
Firing range,  P*  P*  P*    S*         S *  S*   S*    S*    1 per firing 4
indoor                                                        point
Firing range,  S*  S*  S*    S*         S *  S*   S*    S*    1 per firing 4
outdoor                                                       point
Health and                                                    1 per 200
training       S   P   P     P                                sq. ft.      2     A
center, indoor
Health and
training           S*  S*    S*                               1 per 200    2     A
center,                                                       sq. ft.
outdoor
                                                              1 per 2
Outdoor                                                       seats and/or
entertainment          S*    S*              S*   S*    S*    1 per 30 sq. 3     A
venue                                                         ft. of
                                                              audience
                                                              area
                                                              1 per
Race track     S*  S*  S*    S*         S *  S*   S*    S*    participa nt 3     A
                                                              + 1 per 3
                                                              seats
Recreation and                                                1 per 4
amusement          S   S                                      persons (at  3     A
services                                                      max
                                                              capacity)
                                                              1 per
Recreational       S*  S*               S *  S*   S*    S*    employee + 1 2
day camp                                                      per 8
                                                              clients
                                                              1 per 4
Recreational   S*  S*  S*    S*         S *  S*   S*    S*    persons (at  3     A
facility                                                      max
                                                              capacity)
Recreational                                                  1 per 200
facility,          P   P     P          S    S    S     S     sq. ft.      2     A
indoor
Retail Services
Convenience
stores and                                                    1 per 150
convenience    P*  P*  P*    P*         S *  S*   S*    S*    sq. ft.      3     M
type business
establishments
Flea markets,
rummage,
second hand                                                   1 per 300
sales and              P*                    S*   S*    S*    sq. ft.      3     M
activities,
indoor and
outdoor
Grocery store      S   P     P          S    S    S     S     1 per 200    3     M
                                                              sq. ft.
Nursery,           P   P                S    S    S     S     1 per 500    3     M
retail                                                        sq. ft.
Retail sales
(entirely                                                     1 per 300
within an      P*  P*  P*                                     sq. ft.      3     M
enclosed
building)
Retail sales,                                                 1 per 2
outdoor                                                       employees
(primarily     P*  P*  P*                                     (largest     3     M
outside of an                                                 shift) or 1
enclosed                                                      per 500 sq.
building)                                                     ft.
Sexually-
oriented
business                                                      1 per 300
(bookstore,    S*                                             sq. ft.      4
motion
picture,
nightclub)
Shopping           P*  P*                                     1 per 200    3
center                                                        sq. ft.
Vehicle Services
Automobile                                                    3 per bay +
repair         P*  P*  P*    S*         S *  S*   S*    S*    1 per        3     S
facility                                                      employee
                                                              1 per
Car wash       P*  P*  P*    S*         S *  S*   S*    S*    employee + 1 3
                                                              per 200 sq.
                                                              ft.
Parking lot    P   P   P     P                    S     S                  3
Repossession
storage        P*  S*  S*                                     1 per 200    4
facility                                                      sq. ft.
(repot lot)
                                                              1 per 2
Vehicle sales,                                                employees
leasing, and   S*  S*  P*               S *  S*   S*    S*    (largest     3     B
rental                                                        shift) or 1
                                                              per 500 sq.
                                                              ft.
EDUCATIONAL AND INSTITUTIONAL USES
Cemetery or
mausoleum,                              P    P    P     P                  2
private use
Cemetery or
mausoleum,             S*               S *  S*   S*    S*                 2
commercial use
Continuing                                                    1 per
care                                                          employee
retirement     P   P   P     P          S    S    S     S     (largest     2
community/                                                    shift) + 1/
nursing home                                                  2 per
                                                              resident
Crematorium    P   S   S                S    S    S     S     1 per              U
                                                              employee
                                                              1 per 4
Funeral home           P                S    S    S     S     seats or 1   2     A-3
or mortuary                                                   per 200 sq.
                                                              ft.
Religious                                                     1 per 4
structures     S*  P*  P*    P*         P *  P*   P*    P*    sanctuary    2     A-3
                                                              seats
Daycare Facilities
                                                              1 per
Adult daycare  S*  P*  P*    S*         S *  S*   S*    S*    employee + 1 2
                                                              per 8
                                                              clients
                                                              1 per
Childcare      S*  P*  P*    S*         S *  S*   S*    S*    employee + 1 2
facility                                                      per 8
                                                              clients
                                                              As required
In-home                                 P *  P*   P*    P*    by           1     R-3
childcare                                                     underlying
                                                              use
Educational Services
Colleges and                                                  5 per
universities   P   P   S     P          P    P    P     P     classroom +  2     B
                                                              1 per office
                                                              1 per
Learning           S   P     P                                employee + 1 2     B
center                                                        per 8
                                                              clients
                                                              1 per 2
                                                              employees
Research       P   P   S     P                                (largest     3
laboratory                                                    shift) or 1
                                                              per 500 sq.
                                                              ft.
School,
private:                                                      2 per
elementary,    S   S   S                P    P    P     P     classroom    2     E
middle, and
high
School,
public:                                                       5 per
elementary,    P   S   S                P    P    P     P     classroom    2     E
middle, and
high
                                                              5 per
Trade school   P   P   P                S    S    S     S     classroom +  2     B
                                                              1 per office
Truck driving                                                 5 per
school         P   S   S                                      classroom +  4     B
                                                              1 per office
Financial Services
Automated                                                     2 per
teller machine P*  P*  P*    P*         P *  P*   P*    P*    machine      2
(ATM)
Financial
institutions
(banks, credit                                                1 per 200
agencies,      S   P   P     P                                sq. ft.      3     B
investment
companies, and
the like)
Health Services
Emergency
services
(e.g., police, P   P   P     P          P    P    P     P     1 per 350    2
fire, rescue,                                                 sq. ft.
ambulance
service)
Health care
services
(e.g., medical
and dental     S   P   P     P          S    S    S     S     1 per 300    3     B
clinic and                                                    sq. ft.
lab, blood
bank, and the
like)
Hospitals      P   P   P     P          P    P    P     P     2 per bed    3     I-2
Public Services
Parks              P   P     P    P     P    P    P     P                  1
Public library P   P   P     P          P    P    P     P     1 per 300    2     A-3
                                                              sq. ft.
Social Institutions
Community and      P   P                P    P    P     P     1 per 200    2     A-3
civic centers                                                 sq. ft.
Social halls,
lodges,
fraternal                                                     1 per 200
organizations,     P   P                S    S    S     S     sq. ft.      2     A-3
clubs, and
similar
activities
INDUSTRIAL USES
Existing                                                      As required
industrial                                                    by
uses applying          S                     S    S     S     underlying   4
for permits to                                                use
expand
Alternative Energy
Ethanol diesel                                                1 per 2
and biofuel    S*  S*                                         employees    4     H
production                                                    (largest
                                                              shift)
                                                              1 per 2
Solar energy   P*  P*                   S *  S*   S*    S*    employees    4
facility                                                      (largest
                                                              shift)
                                                              1 per 2
Wind energy    P*  P*                   S *  S*   S*    S*    employees    4
facility                                                      (largest
                                                              shift)
Manufacturing
                                                              1 per 2
                                                              employees
Manufacturing, S*                                             (largest     4     H
fertilizer                                                    shift) or 1
                                                              per 500 sq.
                                                              ft.
                                                              1 per 2
                                                              employees
Manufacturing, P*  S*                                         (largest     4
general                                                       shift) or 1
                                                              per 500 sq.
                                                              ft.
                                                              1 per 2
                                                              employees
Manufacturing, P*  P*  P*    P*                               (largest     4
light              S*                                         shift) or 1
                                                              per 500 sq.
                                                              ft.
                                                              1 per 2
Research                                                      employees
laboratory and P   P   P     P                                (largest
development                                                   shift) or 1
                                                              per 500 sq.
                                                              ft.
Warehousing and Freight Handling
Assembling,                                                   1 per 2
processing                                                    employees
industries,    P*  P*  S*    P*                               (largest     4
wholesale, and                                                shift) or 1
warehouse                                                     per 500 sq.
                                                              ft.
                                                              1 per 2
                                                              employees
Distribution   P*  S*  S*                                     (largest     4     S
center                                                        shift) or 1
                                                              per 500 sq.
                                                              ft.
Storage,
recreational
vehicle and                                                   see Office,
travel trailer                          P *  P*   P*    P*    if           3
(private,                                                     applicable
individual
use)
Storage, self                                                 see Office,
mini-          P*  P*  P*                    S*   S*    S*    if           3     S
warehouse/                                                    applicable
outdoor
Wholesale Trade
Wholesale                                                     1 per 2
storage of                                                    employee s
gasoline or    S*                                             (largest     4     H-3
bulk terminal                                                 shift) or 1
plants                                                        per 500 sq.
                                                              ft.
Waste Related
Recycling
collection     P*  P*  P*    P*         P *  P*   P*    P*    1 per unit   1
centers
(unmanned)
Recycling                                                     1 per 2
collection                                                    employees
centers and    P   P         S          S    S    S     S     (largest     4
solid waste                                                   shift) or 1
container                                                     per 500 sq.
sites (manned)                                                ft.
                                                              1 per 2
                                                              employees
Recycling      P   S   S                                      (largest     4
plant                                                         shift) or 1
                                                              per 500 sq.
                                                              ft.
                                                              1 per 2
Solid waste    S*  S*  S*               S *  S*   S*    S*    employees    4
disposal                                                      (largest
                                                              shift)
OTHER USES
Airports and   P*  S*  S*    S*                               1 per 300    4     U
related uses   S*                                             sq. ft.
Communication
towers:
microwave, tv, S*  S*  S*    S*         S *  S*   S*    S*                 4     U
telephone,
radio, and
cellular
Firearm                                                       1 per
certification  S*  S*  S*    S*         S *  S*   S*    S*    participant  4
facilities                                                    and 1 per
                                                              instructor
                                                              1 per 2
Government                                                    participants
training       P   P   P     P          P    P    P     P     allowed by   3
facilities                                                    classroom
                                                              occupancy
Gunsmithing    S*  S*  S*    S*         S *  S*   S*    S*
                                                              1 per 2
                                                              employees
Junkyards      S*                                             (largest     4
                                                              shift) or 1
                                                              per 500 sq.
                                                              ft.
Manufactured                                                  2 per
home parks                                              S*    dwelling     3
                                                              unit
                                                              1 per 2
                                                              employees
Mining         S*  S*  S*               S *  S*   S*    S*    (largest     4
activities                                                    shift) or 1
                                                              per 500 sq.
                                                              ft.
Outdoor
advertising            P
signs
                                                              As required
Planned unit   S*  S*  S*               S *  S*   S*    S*    by           3
development                                                   underlying
                                                              use
RESIDENTIAL USES
Group Residential
Family care                             P *  P*   P*    P*    1 per 5 beds 2     R-3
facility
Group care             S*               S *  S*   S*    S*    1 per 5 beds 2
facility
Multifamily Residential
Condominium                  P*              S*   S*    P* S* 1.5 per      2     R-2
development                                                   bedroom
                                                              1.5 per
Duplex                                       S*   S*    P* S* bedroom + 1  2     R-3
development                                                   per bedroom
                                                              over 2
Live/work                                                     As required
development            S*    S*                               by proposed  3
                                                              uses
Multifamily
dwelling                                                      1.5 per
(three or more               P*              S*   S*    P* S* bedroom + 1  2     R-2
dwelling units                                                per bedroom
on individual                                                 over 2
parcel)
                                                              1.5 per
Townhome                     P*              S*   S*    P* S* bedroom + 1  2     R-3
development                                                   per bedroom
                                                              over 2
Two-family                                                    1.5 per
dwelling                                                      bedroom + 1
(duplex on                                   P    P     P     per bedroom  1     R-3
individual                                                    over 2
parcel)
Traditional Household Residential
Manufactured                                                  2 per
homes (on                                    S*   P*    P*    dwelling     1     R-3
individual                                                    unit
parcel)
Multi-section
manufactured                                 P*               2 per
homes (on                                    S*   P*    P*    dwelling     1     R-3
individual                                                    unit
parcel)
Single-family                                                 2 per
dwellings                         P*    P    P    P     P     dwelling     1     R-3
(including                                                    unit
modular homes)
TEMPORARY USES
Modular        P*  P*  P*    P*         P *  P*   P*    P*                       E
classroom
Nonresidential
building,      P*  P*  P*    P*   P*    P *  P*   P*    P*
temporary
Portable food      P*  P*    P*
sales
Residence,                                                    2 per
temporary                               P *  P*   P*    P*    dwelling     1
                                                              unit
Roadside                                P *  P*   P*    P*                 1
stands
Season sales           P*               P *  P*   P*    P*                 1
Temporary      P*  P*  P*    P*         P *  P*   P*    P*                 1
events
Turkey shoot,                                                 1 per firing
temporary/     S*  S*  S*    S*         S *  S*   S*    S*    point        1
seasonal
Yard sale                               P *  P*   P*    P*                 1
UTILITY USES
Privately                                                     1 per 2
owned public   P*  P*  P*    P*   P*    S *  S*   S*    S*    employees,
utility        S*  S*  S*    S*   S*    S *  S*   S*    S*    if           3     U
structures and                                                applicable
facilities
Publicly owned                                                1 per 2
utility        P*  P*  P*    P*   P*    P *  P*   P*    P*    employees,   3     U
structures and                                                if
facilities                                                    applicable
 
   (C)   Specifications. For purposes of this section, the column identified as
“Building Code Class” is intended for reference purposes only and is subject to
change without notice. “Building Code Class” is intended to provide the “Use
and Occupancy Classification” as identified in the North Carolina State
Building Code, which should be utilized for verification of the information
included herein. Listings not specified shall follow the regulations of the
applicable “Use and Occupancy Classification” once verified by the Building
Code Administrator.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 5-21-2012; Res. passed 9-17-2012; Res.
passed 10-19-2015; Res. passed 3-21-2016; Res. passed 3-21-2016; Res. passed 9-
16-2019; Res. passed 11-16-2020; Ord. 2023-16, passed 8-21-2023; Ord. 2023-21,
passed 10-16-2023; Ord. 2024-15, passed 5-20-2024; Ord. 2024-31, passed 11-18-
2024)
§ 153.106 USE REGULATIONS.
   Use regulations shall apply to those uses marked with an asterisk (*) in the
“Table of use types and regulations” in §
153.105(B), and are applicable to each use, as listed. Compliance with use
regulations is mandatory and required prior to issuance of a certificate of
occupancy. Use regulations listed herein shall be listed in the same order as
in the “Table of use types and regulations” in §
153.105(B).
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.107 RESIDENTIAL USES.
   (A)   Traditional household residential.
      (1)   Single-family dwelling. All single-family dwellings located within
the Conservation Zoning District shall be connected to public water and public
sewer unless specified elsewhere within this chapter.
      (2)   Manufactured homes.
         (a)   RA-20M and RA-20R Zoning Districts. All requirements or
conditions shall be met before a final certificate of occupancy (CO) will be
issued for the home:
            1.   The structure shall be built to the HUD code for manufactured
homes;
            2.   The structure shall have an A-pitched roof that is covered
with material commonly used in standard residential roofing construction. The
material shall be installed properly and be consistent in appearance;
            3.   The structure shall have underpinning consisting of a brick
curtain wall or have galvanized metal sheeting, ABS, or PVC plastic color
skirting with interlocking edges, installed around the perimeter of the home.
Skirting shall be consistent in appearance, in good condition, continuous,
permanent, and unpierced except for ventilation and access; and
            4.   The tongue or towing device shall be removed or landscaped.
         (b)   RA-30 Zoning District. All requirements or conditions shall be
met prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy (CO) for the home:
            1.   The structure shall be built to the HUD code for manufactured
homes;
            2.   The structure shall have an A-pitched roof that is covered
with material commonly used in standard residential roofing construction. The
material shall be installed properly and be consistent in appearance;
            3.   The structure shall have underpinning consisting of a brick
curtain wall or have galvanized metal sheeting, ABS, or PVC plastic color
skirting with interlocking edges, installed around the perimeter of the home.
Skirting shall be consistent in appearance, in good condition, continuous,
permanent, and unpierced except for ventilation and access. In cases where the
proposed home is located in Flood Zone AE, the home shall be located on a
masonry foundation only, with approved flood vents or breakaway skirting. See
§§
153.245 through 153.248 for more information;
            4.   The exterior siding shall consist predominantly of vinyl,
aluminum, wood, or hardboard and shall be comparable in composition,
appearance, and durability to the exterior siding commonly used in standard
residential construction. The exterior siding shall be in good condition,
complete, and not damaged or loose; and
            5.   The tongue or towing device shall be removed or landscaped.
      (3)   Multi-section manufactured homes.
         (a)   RA-20M and RA-20R Zoning Districts. All requirements or
conditions shall be met before a final certificate of occupancy (CO) will be
issued for the home:
            1.   The structure shall be built to the HUD code for manufactured
homes;
            2.   The structure shall have an A-pitched roof that is covered
with material commonly used in standard residential roofing construction. The
material shall be installed properly and be consistent in appearance;
            3.   The structure shall have underpinning consisting of a brick
curtain wall or have galvanized metal sheeting, ABS, or PVC plastic color
skirting with interlocking edges, installed around the perimeter of the home.
Skirting shall be consistent in appearance, in good condition, continuous,
permanent, and unpierced except for ventilation and access; and
            4.   The tongue or towing device shall be removed or landscaped.
         (b)   RA-30 Zoning District. All requirements or conditions shall be
met prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy (CO) for the home. In cases
where the requirements listed herein cannot be met, the applicant(s) may apply
for a special use permit:
            1.   The structure shall be built to the HUD code for manufactured
homes;
            2.   When located on the site, the longest axis of the unit shall
be parallel to the lot frontage;
            3.   The structure shall have an A-pitched roof that is covered
with material commonly used in standard residential roofing construction. The
material shall be installed properly and be consistent in appearance;
            4.   The structure shall have masonry underpinning that is
continuous, permanent, and unpierced except for ventilation and access;
            5.   The exterior siding shall consist predominantly of vinyl,
aluminum, wood or hardboard and shall be comparable in composition, appearance,
and durability to the exterior siding commonly used in standard residential
construction. The exterior siding shall be in good condition, complete, and not
damaged or loose;
            6.   The minimum lot size shall be one acre excluding any street
right-of-way and the minimum lot frontage shall be 150 feet as measured at the
right-of-way line or along an easement whichever applies, except on the bulb of
a cul-de-sac where a minimum of 40 feet is acceptable; and
            7.   The tongue or towing device shall be removed.
   (B)   Multifamily residential.
      (1)   Multifamily residential development: general regulations. The
following regulations shall apply to all apartment development, condominium
development, duplex development, multifamily development (other), and townhome
development:
         (a)   Multifamily residential development shall be permitted in rural
center, employment mixed use, and compact mixed use land use classifications,
and shall require a special use permit in all other land use classifications;
         (b)   Residential density shall not exceed nine dwelling units per
acre unless otherwise allowed by this chapter.;
         (c)   A minimum of 15% of the tract shall be set aside for
recreational open space unless otherwise allowed by this chapter. Of the total
set aside, 5% of the area shall be developed for improved recreational open
space. This area shall be installed and maintained by the developer until
ownership of the recreational open space area is transferred to the homeowners
association, if applicable. In cases where no homeowners association is
created, the developer shall be responsible for continued maintenance of
recreational open space areas. Additionally:
            1.   Improved recreational open space areas, such as golf courses,
basketball courts, swings, and the like, shall be clearly defined. Any
equipment used for improved recreational open space areas shall be permanently
affixed to the ground; and/or
            2.   All recreational open space areas shall be equipped and
maintained by the appropriate body.
         (d)   A network of sidewalks and pedestrian trails, where applicable,
shall be provided to connect all parking areas, driveways, residential
structures, and amenities. Approval of such shall be based on connectivity.
Additionally:
            1.   Sidewalks shall be constructed along all streets, driveways,
parking areas, and residential structures. The construction shall be in
accordance with the construction standards set forth in this chapter; and/or
            2.   Pedestrian trails may be provided in place of sidewalks
between all separate accessory structures and amenities, including open space
and recreational open space areas. The pedestrian trails shall be a minimum of
four feet wide and three inches thick.
         (e)   Developments larger than five acres in size shall install street
trees along both sides of all newly created public or private street(s). The
improvements shall be in accordance with the applicable requirements set forth
in this chapter;
         (f)   Recordation of the declaration, if applicable, and plan shall be
completed by the developer or his or her agent prior to issuance of the first
certificate of occupancy (CO) on the project following approval by the DRB or
such approval shall be null and void;
         (g)   In any multifamily development in which lots and/or units are
individually sold, a homeowners association (HOA) shall be required. The
required organizational documents and by-laws shall include, but are not
limited to, the following.
            1.   The homeowners association shall be established before any
lots are sold.
            2.   Membership shall be mandatory for each buyer and any
successive buyer.
            3.   The developer shall be responsible for all maintenance and
other responsibilities of the homeowners association until 60% of all units to
be sold are sold. After 60% of all units are sold, the homeowners association
shall levy assessments and assume its responsibilities.
            4.   The homeowners association shall be responsible for liability
insurance, taxes, and maintenance of all recreational open space facilities,
grounds, and common areas. Any sums levied by the homeowners association that
remain unpaid shall become a lien on the individual property.
            5.   The declaration shall contain a statement addressing street
maintenance and ownership, if applicable.
         (h)   A minimum of two entrances shall be required on all multifamily
developments of 100 or more units;
         (i)   Streets, driveways, and parking areas shall meet the following
requirements.
            1.   All driveways, streets, and parking areas whether private or
public, shall be paved and constructed to NCDOT standards. Once ownership of
the private streets has been transferred to the homeowners association, if
applicable, the association shall assume maintenance of the streets.
            2. When parking lots are located within the required front yard,
the minimum front setback for each unit or the development as a whole,
whichever is applicable, shall be increased by an additional 20 feet.
            3. Curb and gutter shall be installed in accordance with §
153.151(D).
         (j)   Individual lots shall meet the following minimum dimensional
requirements as applicable. Minimum side yard requirements shall apply to
perimeter boundaries only, except in cases of a duplex development, where the
minimum side yard on one side shall meet the requirements below.
 
Minimum Requirement                    Width
Front yard                             35 ft.
Front yard (parking within front yard) 55 ft.
Lot width                              20 ft.
Rear yard                              25 ft.
Side yard                              10 ft.
Side yard, corner lot                  20 ft.
 
      (2)   Multifamily residential development: specific regulations.
         (a)   Condominium development. A declaration establishing a
condominium development shall be prepared which satisfies the requirements of
the state’s Unit Ownership Act (G.S. Chapter 47A). This declaration shall be
filed with the plans for the development. The plans and declaration shall be
submitted with the special use permit application, if applicable.
         (b)   Duplex development. The requirements set forth herein for a
single duplex unit shall not be applicable to the duplex development.
         (c)   Live/work development. 
            1.   A declaration establishing a condominium development shall be
prepared which satisfies the requirements of the state’s Unit Ownership Act
(G.S. §§ 47A-1 et seq.). This declaration shall be submitted with the special
use application and filed with the plans for the development, if more than one
residential unit is proposed.
            2.   Permissible nonresidential uses shall include the following as
listed in “Table of use types and regulations” in §
153.105(B) and shall be conducted wholly within the structure:
               a.   Financial services;
               b.   Offices, general; and/or
               c.   Retail services.
            3.   Live/Work developments shall follow the setback regulations of
the underlying zoning district; however, the perimeter side yard setback shall
be a minimum of five feet.
            4.   The use shall have direct access to a collector or higher
classified road.
            5.   No outside storage or display of items associated with the use
shall be permitted.
         (d)   Multifamily development (other). All site plans shall be
accompanied by a certification of sewage disposal, which states that the sewage
system can handle its current load as well as the additional load from the
apartments. The certification for private sewer systems shall come from the
state, via the county’s Department of Public Health. The certification for
public sewage disposal shall come from the county’s Department of Public
Utilities.
         (e)   Townhome development. 
            1.   In a townhome development in which any facilities such as, but
not limited to, streets, parking areas, recreational open space facilities, and
common open space are to be held and maintained in common ownership a
homeowners association shall be organized. Documents showing the association’s
organizational structure and by-laws for the property shall be filed with the
Planning Department. For townhome developments, the aforementioned documents
shall become part of the application for a special use permit.
            2.   All townhome units shall be subject to the conveyance of a
fee-simple lot.
   (C)   Group residential.
      (1)   Family care facility. No family care facility shall be located
within a one-half mile radius of an existing family care facility. It shall be
the responsibility of the applicant to supply such information.
      (2)   Group care facility. No group care facility shall be located within
a one mile radius of an existing group care facility. It shall be the
responsibility of the applicant to supply such information.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 3-21-2016; Res. passed 11-16-2020)
Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.108 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Customary home occupation. 
      (1)   No more than one assistant may be employed by home occupations.
      (2)   No mechanical equipment shall be installed or used except such that
is used for domestic or professional purposes.
      (3)   Not over 50% of the total floor space of any structure is used for
home occupations. In no case shall any accessory structure be used in
conjunction with a customary home occupation.
      (4)   Any modifications necessitated due to a customary home occupation
shall meet the requirements of the North Carolina State Building Code. Twenty
percent of all monies spent on improvements shall be dedicated toward ANSI
compliance. Any manufactured home utilized for a customary home occupation
shall include modifications, designed by a structural engineer licensed in the
state.
   (B)   Junk motor vehicles (on private property). Unless otherwise provided,
junked motor vehicles in the RA-40, RA-30, RA-20R, and RA-20M Zoning Districts
on private property not associated with a business, shall conform to the
following requirements effective November 15, 2004.
      (1)   General requirements.
         (a)   The junked motor vehicles shall not be stored or located within
30 feet of any adjoining property line or side street or right-of-way and shall
be situated so that no motor vehicle or parts are visible from the adjoining
properties. In no case shall junked motor vehicles be located in the front yard
of the primary building of the lot.
         (b)   The junked motor vehicles shall not be a health or safety
nuisance, nor shall the area constitute a health or safety nuisance according
to the county’s Department of Public Health.
         (c)   The junked motor vehicles shall be entirely concealed during all
seasons of the year from public view from the public right-of-way and from the
adjoining properties. The vehicles may be concealed by an automobile cover or
tarpaulin, with the cover adequately secured to prevent removal by wind. The
automobile cover or tarpaulin shall remain in good repair and not allowed to
deteriorate.
         (d)   In no case shall there be more than three junked motor vehicles
located outside any enclosed building unless otherwise specified by this
chapter. In situations where a person owns multiple tracts of land that are
located within 500 feet of each other, the owner of such land shall be limited
to three junked motor vehicles located outside any enclosed building unless
otherwise specified by this chapter for all lots located within the distance
requirement.
      (2)   Exceptions for junked motor vehicles. The repair of no more than
one motor vehicle per household for personal use is exempt from the screening,
concealment, and setback requirements of this chapter. However, the vehicle
shall be owned by a member of the household and all repairs shall take place
within an enclosed building or in the rear yard of the dwelling and shall not
constitute a health or safety nuisance and all repairs shall take no longer
than 180 days to complete.
   (C)   Kennel, private accessory.
      (1)   All kennel structures and related areas shall be located in the
rear yard.
      (2)   All kennel structures and related areas shall be a minimum of ten
feet from all property lines.
      (3)   A building permit shall be required for all kennel structures.
   (D)   Solar energy system, accessory.
      (1)   Roof-mounted solar energy systems shall not extend beyond the
exterior perimeter of the building on which the system is mounted or built.
         (a)   Pitched roof-mounted systems shall include with the application
proof of the highest finished slope of the solar collector and the slope of the
finished roof surface on which it is mounted.
         (b)   Flat roof-mounted systems shall include with the application a
drawing showing the distance from the system components to the roof edge and
any parapet walls on the building.
      (2)   Ground-mounted solar energy systems shall meet the minimum setback
for the zoning district in which it is located or 25 feet, whichever is
greater. The maximum height of the structure shall be 25 feet.
      (3)   Solar components of the system shall have an Underwriters
Laboratories (UL) listing.
      (4)   Applications for all solar energy systems shall include a site plan
and elevation drawings showing the location(s) of the system(s) on the building
or property, including distance to property lines.
      (5)   All photovoltaic systems shall comply with the most current edition
of the National Electrical Code.
      (6)   No grid-intertie photovoltaic system shall be installed until
evidence has been provided to the Planning Department that the owner(s) has
been approved by the appropriate utility company to install an interconnected
customer-owned generator. Off-grid systems are exempt from this requirement.
      (7)   All solar structures shall be inspected by a county Building
Inspector.
   (E)   Swimming pools.
      (1)   Swimming pools shall comply with the latest and applicable version
of the North Carolina State Building Code for residential or commercial
swimming pools, whichever is applicable.
      (2)   Swimming pools as permitted uses shall be located only in side or
rear yards at residences, and in recreation areas at apartment complexes and
manufactured home parks.
      (3)   All swimming pools and surrounding deck areas shall be at least ten
feet from any property line, right-of-way, or easement, whichever is closest to
the proposed swimming pool location.
      (4)   All buildings containing mechanical or chemical feeding equipment
associated with the operation of a pool shall be at least five feet from any
side or rear property line and shall comply with any other setback
requirements.
      (5)   Any lighting associated with a swimming pool shall be shielded or
located in a manner which will not adversely affect adjoining property or
impair visibility on adjacent streets, roads, or highways.
      (6)   A water discharge plan for the swimming pool shall be submitted
with the permit application showing property dimensions and other pertinent
data; the water discharge plan shall show that the wastewater shall be
discharged in one of the following ways:
         (a)   Wastewater shall drain directly into the street storm drainage
system, other public storm drainage system, or roadway ditch; or
         (b)   Wastewater may be disposed of on the property without threat of
discharge onto adjacent lots so long as such does not constitute a threat of
discharge onto adjacent property streets or roadways.
   (F)   Wind energy system, accessory.
      (1)   Wind energy systems shall be setback from all property lines a
distance equal to one linear foot for every foot of height of the highest
structure that is part of the facility or the minimum setback for the zoning
district in which it is located, whichever is greater.
      (2)   Wind turbines shall only be located in the rear yard and shall not
be located on a corner lot.
      (3)   Wind energy systems shall not be permitted in any residential major
subdivision.
      (4)   The maximum height of wind turbines is 80 feet.
      (5)   Attachment to a building of any kind shall be prohibited.
      (6)   The visual appearance of a wind energy system shall, at a minimum,
meet the following:
         (a)   Wind energy systems shall be constructed of a corrosion
resistant material that will not fade, show rust spots, or otherwise change in
appearance as a result of exposure to the elements and shall be a non-obtrusive
color such as white, off-white, or gray;
         (b)   No artificial light, except to the extent required by the FAA,
shall be permitted; and/or
         (c)   No display advertising (including flags, streamers, or
decorative items), except for identification of the turbine manufacturer,
facility owner(s), and operator.
      (7)   Installation and design of a wind energy system shall conform to
applicable industry standards, including those of the American National
Standards Institute.
      (8)   Any on-site transmission or power lines shall, to the maximum
extent possible, be installed underground.
      (9)   Applications for wind energy systems shall include:
         (a)   The approximate generating capacity of the system;
         (b)   The representative type and height of the wind turbine(s) to be
constructed, including its dimensions, manufacturer, and a description of any
ancillary facilities;
         (c)   A site plan showing the location of wind turbine(s), property
lines, setback lines, access easements or right(s)-of-way, and the location of
all structures on the property; and
         (d)   Evidence of compliance with applicable FAA regulations.
      (10)   No wind energy system shall be installed until evidence has been
provided to the Planning Department that the owner(s) has been approved by the
appropriate utility company to install an interconnected customer-owned
generator. Such evidence shall be in the form of a written verification that
the plans have been reviewed and, if built to plans, the system will be
accepted by the utility company and shall be furnished along with the
application.
      (11)   The noise emitted from such facility shall be in compliance with
the applicable regulations of the county’s Sheriff’s Department. Evidence of
such shall be furnished with the application for a wind energy system.
      (12)   (a)   Any wind energy system that is not functional shall be
repaired by the owner(s) within 90 days or be removed, including in cases where
the system is decommissioned.
         (b)   In the event that the county becomes aware of a system that is
not operated for a continuous period of 90 days, the county will notify the
property owner(s) according to the regulations set forth in this chapter.
         (c)   Any written response from the owner(s) shall set forth reasons
for the operational difficulty and provide a reasonable timetable for
corrective action.
         (d)   If the county deems the timetable for corrective action as
unreasonable, the county shall notify the owner and shall give an additional
120 days to remove the system from the date the notice is received.
         (e)   Any disturbed area shall be graded and re-seeded once removal
has taken place.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 6-18-2012) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.109 AGRICULTURAL AND FORESTRY USES.
   Nurseries shall not be required to install asphalt and/or concrete parking
areas, except required handicapped parking. Graded and surfaced crushed stone,
gravel, or other suitable material may be utilized provided a minimum of six
inches of the product is installed and that it is maintained in a dust free
manner. Additionally, any units utilized for storage of materials shall be
located in the required side or rear yard and shall be screened with evergreen
landscaping material.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.110 EDUCATIONAL AND INSTITUTIONAL USES.
   (A)   Cemetery or mausoleum, commercial use (as primary use).
      (1)   All applicable requirements of the state general statutes and the
county concerning interment of the dead shall be met.
      (2)   No interment shall take place within 100 feet of any property line
(s) or public right(s)-of-way.
      (3)   Buildings for the maintenance, management, and/or sales of cemetery
lots shall be located at least 100 feet from any lot line that adjoins a
residential zoning district. Otherwise, the building(s) shall conform to the
requirements of the principal use for the district in which it is located.
      (4)   Cemeteries existing prior to adoption of this chapter may be exempt
from dimensional requirements set forth in §
153.093(A)(2), (B), and (D).
   (B)   Religious structures. A minimum of 50% of the required parking for
religious structures shall be surfaced with asphalt and/or concrete. All
required handicapped amenities shall be located in permanently surfaced parking
areas. The remaining parking may be grass, maintained in a dust free manner,
except in cases where a daycare facility is provided onsite. In cases of
existing religious structures where daycare facilities are added at a later
date, any parking required for the daycare facility shall be surfaced with
asphalt and/or concrete.
   (C)   Daycare facilities. 
      (1)   Daycare facilities: general regulations. Daycare facilities,
including adult daycare, childcare facility, and in-home childcare, shall
comply with all state and federal laws that pertain to the health, safety, and
welfare of facility clients.
      (2)   Daycare facilities: specific regulations.
         (a)   Childcare facility. Outdoor activity area(s) shall be enclosed
by a security fence and shall be located outside of the front building setback
as established by this chapter.
            1.   The fence or wall shall be made of any suitable and durable
material that is intended for a fence.
            2.   The fence or wall shall be designed so that a four-inch
diameter sphere cannot pass through any opening.
            3.   All gates and doors opening through such fence or wall shall
have self-closing and self-latching devices which keeps the gate or door closed
at all times; however, the door of any dwelling which furnishes part of the
enclosure need not be so equipped.
            4.   Parking areas shall not abut fenced play areas without
provisions for ballasts or curbing.
         (b)   Commercial childcare facility. Outdoor activity area(s) shall be
enclosed by a security fence at least five feet in height and shall be located
outside of the front building setback as established by this chapter.
         (c)   In-home childcare facility.
            1.   In no case shall any in-home childcare facility have more than
that maximum number of children allowable. Of that number, the following
requirements must be met.
               a.   No more than five pre-school-age children shall be cared
for.
               b.   No more than eight school-age children shall be cared for.
            2.   Childcare provider must live in the residence full time.
            3.   Required outdoor activity area(s):
               a.   Shall be enclosed by a security fence at least four feet in
height;
               b.   Shall be located outside of the front building setback as
established by this chapter; and
               c.   Shall be the product of 75 square feet times 50% of the
approved enrollment.
         (d)   Underpinning and skirting. In cases where manufactured homes are
used for in-home childcare facilities, the structure shall have underpinning
consisting of a brick curtain wall or have galvanized metal sheeting, ABS, or
PVC plastic color skirting with interlocking edges, installed around the
perimeter of the home. Skirting shall be consistent in appearance, in good
condition, continuous, permanent, and unpierced except for ventilation and
access.
   (D)   Financial services - automated teller machine (ATM).
      (1)   Shall be located so as not to interfere or conflict with sidewalks,
pedestrian ways, parking areas, loading areas, driveways, interior access
drives, perimeter landscaping, or plantings, if applicable; and
      (2)   Side and rear setback requirement shall be five feet. All other
setbacks shall comply with underlying zoning district.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 6-18-2012)
§ 153.111 COMMERCIAL USES.
   (A)   Animal services.
      (1)   Veterinarian services.
         (a)   Any outdoor yard areas shall be enclosed by a solid, opaque
fence, or masonry wall at least eight feet in height.
         (b)   The animal hospital structure shall be soundproofed in order to
minimize all loud and disturbing noises that might disturb those persons in
adjoining structures or in the nearby vicinity. Further, the noise emitted from
such facility shall be in compliance with the applicable regulations of the
county’s Sheriff’s Department.
      (2)   Zoo and petting zoo.
         (a)   The owner(s) of the facility shall provide written evidence of
application to the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) for such a
facility at the time of application for a special use permit. Further, the
owner(s) shall provide written evidence of USDA certification prior to issuance
of a certificate of occupancy for the facility.
         (b)   In addition to those items required on the site plan elsewhere
by this chapter, all areas to be used for purposes of a zoo or petting zoo,
whether or not located within a structure, shall be identified.
         (c)   Any animals or areas deemed dangerous, or potentially dangerous,
to the public shall be easily identified through signage and other necessary
measures.
         (d)   The owner (s) shall ensure that the facility remains in
compliance with local, state, and federal regulations regarding permitting and
containment of exotic animals. If at any time the facility is not in
compliance, the facility shall not allow entrance by the public.
         (e)   The facility shall be subject to random inspections by the
county’s Departments of Planning Services and Animal Control to ensure
compliance with applicable local ordinances.
   (B)   Eating and drinking services.
      (1)   Bar, tavern, and entertainment venues.
         (a)   Bars, taverns, and entertainment venues shall not be located
within 500 feet of a residential structure or park, unless permitted as part of
a live/work development.
         (b)   No such facility shall be located within 1,000 feet of an
educational institution, school, or religious structure.
         (c)   Building(s) shall be located a minimum of 100 feet from any
property line(s) that adjoins a residential zoning district. Otherwise, the
building(s) shall conform to the requirements of the principal use for the
district in which it is located.
         (d)   Additional temporary overflow parking of one space per 200
square feet of building area shall be required for bars or taverns providing
dancing and/or live entertainment.
         (e)   The noise emitted from such facility shall be in compliance with
the applicable regulations of the county’s Sheriff’s Department.
         (f)   Any outdoor seating or area used as part of the establishment
shall not obstruct the sidewalk and shall meet building setback requirements.
      (2)   Restaurant.
         (a)   Restaurants with drive-through service shall have a minimum
queuing lane length to accommodate eight vehicles. The queuing lane shall not
interfere with any required drive aisles or parking access.
         (b)   Any outdoor seating or area used as part of the establishment
shall not obstruct the sidewalk and shall meet building setback requirements.
         (c)   No amplified noise shall be permitted outdoors when located
within 500 feet of a residential use. Further, the noise emitted from such
facility shall be in compliance with the applicable regulations of the county’s
Sheriff’s Department.
   (C)   Lodging services.
      (1)   Bed and breakfast.
         (a)   The operator of the bed and breakfast residence may be the owner
of the dwelling or a resident manager, but shall occupy the dwelling as a
principal residence;
         (b)   Guest stays shall be limited to 14 consecutive days;
         (c)   Meals may be provided to overnight guests only, and no cooking
facilities may be provided in guest rooms; and
         (d)   Shall comply with all local and state regulations.
      (2)   Boarding house.
         (a)   The operator of the boarding house shall occupy the dwelling as
a primary residence.
         (b)   Meals may be provided only for boarders and/or occupants of the
premises, and no cooking facilities may be provided in guest rooms.
         (c)   The quarters utilized by boarders and/or occupants of the
premises shall be in the principal residential structure.
      (3)   Homeless shelter.
         (a)   No such facility shall be located within 2,000 feet of another
homeless shelter.
         (b)   Staff shall be provided on-site 24 hours a day during periods of
operation and/or occupancy.
         (c)   The use shall be owned and managed by a charitable or benevolent
operation qualifying for tax exemption under IRC § 501 or by a government
entity.
         (d)   There shall be no compensation required for occupancy in the
facility.
         (e)   There shall be a minimum of 50 square feet of sleeping space per
person.
      (4)   Recreational campground.
         (a)   General requirements. In districts which permit such activities,
the following shall apply:
            1.   There shall be no permanent structures, excluding picnic
shelters, erected within any area deemed “flood zone”, “wetland”, or
“conservation zone”.
            2.   Adequate restroom facilities must be provided for campers to
maintain sanitary conditions, in accordance with the requirements of the
county’s Health Department.
            3.   Installation and provision for water and sewage disposal shall
be according to the standards of the county’s Department of Public Utilities
and the county’s Health Department.
            4.   An emergency plan must be submitted and approved by the
county’s Development Review Board along with the commercial site plan.
            5.   Staff shall be on-site or available 24 hours a day to all
campers. This contact information shall be posted on-site.
            6.   A campground shall not be utilized as permanent residence.
            7.   The park owner shall keep all park owned facilities, spaces,
improvements, equipment open space, recreational open space, and all common
areas in good repair and maintained in such a manner as to prevent the
accumulation or storage of material which would constitute a fire hazard or
would cause insect or rodent breeding and harborage. This includes providing
receptacles for the disposal of trash.
            8.   Prohibited uses within any recreational campground park
include:
               a.   Junk motor vehicles; and/or
               b.   Storage of recreational vehicles, cars, boats, lumber, or
other construction materials.
         (b)   Recreational vehicle campground.
            1.   All parks shall have a gross land area of at least three
acres.
            2.   Size of individual recreational vehicle space:
               a.   Minimum space size: 1,000 square feet; and
               b.   Minimum space width: 20 feet.
            3.   Recreational vehicles shall be separated from each other and
from other structures by at least ten feet. No more than one recreational
vehicle may be parked on any one space and shall not be permitted on lots other
than those approved through these regulations.
            4.   A recreational open space area will be developed and
maintained that shall be located for safe and convenient access to all campers
and shall meet the following size requirements:
 
Gross Land Area (Acres) Percentage of Recreational Open Space
3.00 - 6.00             7%
6.01 - 9.00             6%
> 9.01                  5%
 
            5.   No recreational vehicle space within a park shall directly
access a public right-of-way and such access shall be approved by NCDOT. Access
to all campers and accessory structures within the campground shall be made
using internal streets.
            6.   Internal streets shall have a minimum width of 15 feet and
shall be compacted and layered with four inches of aggregate base course. Cul-
de-sacs in a recreational vehicle park shall be limited to a maximum length of
500 feet and shall be provided with a permanent turnaround not less than 60
feet in diameter. All entrances in a recreational vehicle park shall be paved a
minimum of 20 feet or to NCDOT standards, whichever is greater. Maintenance of
all internal streets and drainage facilities shall be the responsibility of the
owner of the campground.
            7.   Each recreational vehicle space shall have off-street parking
for one trailer and parking space for at least one car. Each space shall be
sited so that the parking, loading, or maneuvering of a recreational vehicle
shall not necessitate the use of any public right-of-way, sidewalk, or any
private grounds not part of the park.
            8.   Tent camping shall also be allowed in such campgrounds.
         (c)   Primitive campground.
            1.   Travel trailers, RVs, or any other form of mobile shelters
shall not be allowed in areas intended for primitive camping.
            2.   An adequate all weather access road must be provided in
accordance with this chapter.
            3.   No provision of utilities or “hookups” shall be constructed
on-site.
   (D)   Personal services.
      (1)   Massage and bodywork therapy practice, licensed. A copy of a
license to perform massage and bodywork therapy, issued by the state, shall be
submitted with the required site plan.
      (2)   Massage and bodywork therapy practice, unlicensed. This use shall
be located not less than 2,000 feet from any religious structure, educational
institution, daycare facility, or sexually oriented business permitted by this
chapter, dwelling unit, or any area zoned for residential use. The measurement
is to be taken from the exterior walls of the building containing the so
regulated use and shall meet the measurement requirements in the north, south,
east, and west directions.
   (E)   Recreational facilities and uses.
      (1)   Recreational facility.
         (a)   Adequate handicap accessible restroom and parking facilities
shall be provided.
         (b)   When outdoor fields are proposed with a recreational facility,
the use regulations for “athletic fields” shall be applicable, unless otherwise
approved by the Board of Adjustment.
      (2)   Athletic fields, private. In cases where the requirements listed
herein cannot be met, the applicant(s) may apply for a special use permit.
         (a)   Total project acreage shall not exceed 12 acres.
         (b)   Hours of operation are permitted as follows.
            1.   Monday through Friday hours are limited to 3:00 p.m. to dusk.
            2.   Saturday hours are limited to 9:00 a.m. to dusk.
            3.   Facility shall not be in operation on Sunday.
         (c)   No intercom, loudspeaker, or other similar items shall be
permitted.
         (d)   No lighting shall be permitted.
         (e)   Adequate parking shall be provided so as not to interfere with
the surrounding properties.
            1.   This shall prohibit the use of public right(s)-of-way for
overflow parking.
            2.   Parking areas shall be graded and surfaced with crushed stone,
gravel, or other suitable material with a minimum depth of six inches.
            3.   All handicapped accessible parking shall be paved.
            4.   No parking signs shall be posted along property line(s)
adjacent to the public rights-of-way in accordance with NCDOT standards and
shall be shown on the required site plan.
            5.   Parking spaces shall be a minimum of 50 feet from all
residential structures.
         (f)   All unpaved areas shall be maintained in a manner that prevents
dust from adversely impacting adjoining properties and right(s)-of-way.
         (g)   No outdoor recreational facilities, including fields, shall be
permitted in required setback.
         (h)   Adequate handicap accessible restroom facilities shall be
provided.
      (3)   Health and training center, outdoor. The requirements listed in
this section for “athletic fields, private” shall be met, as applicable.
      (4)   Race track.
         (a)   The noise emitted from such facility shall be in compliance with
the applicable regulations of the county’s Sheriff’s Department.
         (b)   Adequate parking shall be provided so as not to interfere with
the surrounding properties.
            1.   This shall prohibit the use of public right(s)-of-way for
overflow parking.
            2.   No parking signs shall be posted along property line(s)
adjacent to the public rights-of-way in accordance with NCDOT standards and
shall be shown on the required site plan.
            3.   Parking spaces shall be a minimum of 50 feet from all
residential structures.
         (c)   All unpaved areas shall be maintained in a manner that prevents
dust from adversely impacting adjoining properties and right(s)-of-way.
         (d)   Adequate measures shall be taken, and demonstrated on required
site plan, to ensure spectator safety, including, but not limited to, safety
fencing.
         (e)   Structures or facilities for use by the general public and/or
participants shall be constructed to the North Carolina State Building Code.
         (f)   Structures or facilities shall be constructed a minimum of 50
feet from any residentially zoned or used lot.
         (g)   Adequate, handicap accessible restroom facilities shall be
provided.
      (5)   Recreational day camp.
         (a)   Swimming facilities shall be protected by a fence in accordance
with the county’s regulations for swimming pools.
            1.   Facilities adjacent to a residential zoning or use shall be
screened from view using techniques in §
153.158.
            2.   Indoor facilities shall be separated and secured from the rest
of the facility.
         (b)   All unpaved areas shall be maintained in a manner that prevents
dust from adversely impacting adjoining properties and right(s)-of-way.
         (c)   Structures or facilities shall be constructed a minimum of 50
feet from any residentially zoned or used lot.
         (d)   Adequate, handicap accessible restroom facilities shall be
provided.
       (6)   Outdoor entertainment venue.
         (a)   A minimum property size of 20 acres shall be required for all
outdoor entertainment venues.
         (b)   If the property does not have direct access to a state-
maintained road, a private easement may be utilized for property access,
subject to the following street construction standards:
            1.   The road surface shall be gravel, asphalt, or concrete. Gravel
roads shall be constructed with six inches of compacted aggregate base course
gravel.
            2.   The road shall be a minimum of 20 feet in width.
            3.   The road shall be graded to encourage adequate drainage,
including a crown in the road and ditches to convey water.
         (c)   No outdoor events shall occur between 10:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m.
         (d)   Any sale of alcohol shall be for on-site consumption and comply
with all applicable state and local regulations.
         (e)   Designated performance and audience areas shall be identified on
the required site plan.
         (f)   The venue shall provide traffic control personnel to ensure
adequate ingress and egress for all events.
         (g)   Adequate restroom facilities shall be provided and identified on
the required site plan. If no permanent restroom facilities are required by the
North Carolina Building Code, sufficient temporary restroom facilities shall be
provided on-site. An area for temporary restroom facilities shall be designated
on the required site plan. Temporary restroom facilities shall be provided at a
rate of one per 420 square feet of audience area.
         (h)   The use of fireworks and pyrotechnics shall comply with all
local and state regulations.
         (i)   Adequate parking shall be provided so as not to interfere with
the surrounding properties.
            1.   This shall hereby prohibit the use of public right(s)-of-way
for overflow parking.
            2.   All parking areas shall be designated on the required site
plan, and unpaved areas may be utilized for required parking. Unpaved parking
areas shall be properly maintained to ensure the safety of pedestrians and
motorists.
            3.   All unpaved areas shall be maintained in a manner that
prevents dust from adversely impacting adjoining properties and right(s)-of-
way.
            4.   No parking signs shall be posted along property line(s)
adjacent to the public right(s) of way in accordance with NCDOT standards and
shall be shown on the required site plan.
            5.   Adequate directional signage shall be installed to direct
motorists to entrances, exists, and designated parking areas.
            6.   Parking areas shall be located a minimum of 100 feet from all
adjacent properties.
            7.   Adequate lighting shall be provided for parking areas in
accordance with §
153.156.
            8.   ADA compliant parking shall be paved and provided in
accordance with all applicable ADA regulations.
         (j)   No outdoor entertainment activities shall be permitted within
the required setback or within 300 feet of a residence, unless the residence is
owned by the applicant or property owner of the outdoor entertainment venue.
       (7)   Firing ranges (indoor and outdoor). All land use defined as a
firing range in §
153.021 shall adhere to the requirements and regulations set forth in this
section and any other applicable section of this chapter. These requirements
and regulations are not mandated for the occasional target practice by an
individual on property owned or leased by the individual or the individual’s
immediate family, nor is it mandated for private ranges utilized by public or
private high schools, colleges, or universities and government owned and
operated training or practice facilities.
         (a)   Special use/compliance requirements.
            1.   In no case shall a firing range, whether a primary or
ancillary use, be exempted from obtaining the required special use permit.
            2.   When a firing range facility or use is changed, modified, or
expanded to include additional or new types of ranges, operations, or
activities not permitted or included in the most current special use approval
or legal pre-existing status then the submittal of a site plan indicating the
addition, modification, or change in operation of the firing range facility is
required to be reviewed and receive Board of Adjustment approval prior to
commencement of the change, modification, or expansion.
            3.   Facilities currently operating under the Sport Shooting Range
Protection Act of 1997 shall comply with the current regulations and
requirements of this chapter when the facility undergoes a change of use.
            4.   In addition to the county’s typical notification process of
special use permits for outdoor firing ranges, the applicant(s) shall make
notification to all property owners within one mile of the proposed facility.
Such notification shall include the same information in the notification
provided by the county. Proof of such notification shall be provided by the
applicants, either by certified mail receipt, sworn statement, or evidence of
publication of a half-page ad in a newspaper of local distribution. Request for
special use approval of an indoor firing range shall follow the standard
notification process conducted by the county’s Planning Department.
         (b)   Special use permit/site plan requirements. A completed special
use application accompanied by a detailed site development plan must be
submitted to the county’s Planning Department a minimum of 30 days prior to the
scheduled hearing date. All site plans are required to be submitted and sealed
by a certified engineer with range design experience or an accredited
individual certified in range design. A verifiable history of engineering or
range design experience and performance in this area must be supplied and
accompany the site plan at time of submittal. Applications may be subject to a
third-party review process and review fee as referenced in the county’s Fee
Schedule. In order for the application and site plan to be considered complete,
the site plan shall include all components necessary to comply with the range
development standards for firing ranges as well as the following information:
            1.   Information regarding the type, action, and the highest
caliber of firearms, explosive ordinance and/or device proposed to be utilized
at the facility;
            2.   Details regarding how the facility will be designed to
facilitate the use of the highest caliber firearm proposed, including details
regarding how the public will be protected from projectiles from such firearms,
in accordance with recommendations from the current edition of the NRA Range
Source Book or other accredited range design publication;
            3.   Information detailing the style or type of targets that will
be utilized at the facility. Information shall include target composition,
stationary or mobile design, distance from firing line, and range location. All
targets shall be used in conjunction with the manufacturers’ specifications for
use;
            4.   Information regarding firing line type and construction
design, firearm discharge positions, and firing techniques that will be
utilized at the facility;
            5.   Details regarding how the facility will provide containment of
projectiles and debris caused by the type of ammunition, targets, and
activities to be utilized or occur on the site, entirely within the boundaries
of such facility. The containment methods shall be in conjunction with
recommendations for containment as referenced in the current edition of an
accredited range design publication;
            6.   A firing range safety plan, including at a minimum, the
following information, written in accordance with an accredited range design
and operation publication. This plan shall be utilized during the planning,
construction and operation of the facility:
               a.   Firearm or other weapon(s) handling rules;
               b.   General and specific firing range rules and regulations;
and
               c.   Administrative rules and regulations.
            7.   Proposed hours and days of operation, which may be amended by
the Board of Adjustment in the special interest of community safety,
compatibility, and welfare;
            8.   Information regarding noise abatement design techniques that
will ensure compliance with permissible noise level limitations specified in
Chapter 92 of this code. The burden of proof that the proposed range facility
meets and will not exceed the permissible noise level limitations of Chapter 92
of this code, shall rest with the applicant and/or property owner. All noise
studies shall be performed by a professional engineer registered in the state
or by a person with a degree in a discipline related to acoustics;
            9.   Outdoor ranges that will discharge projectiles that contain
lead, shall supply an environmental stewardship plan prepared by a state
registered engineer. The plan shall include semi-annual soil and water
sampling, regular liming of the soil to prevent lead migration, reclamation and
recycling of the lead and is compliant with the best management practices,
specifically relating to lead management, as specified by the Environmental
Protection Agency’s (EPA) most current edition of best management practices for
lead at outdoor shooting ranges. Indoor ranges shall submit a similar plan that
addresses the recovery and recycling of lead projectiles and the ventilation
and other techniques utilized for hazardous material and contaminate removal;
            10.   Outdoor range site plans shall illustrate the location of all
property lines, structures, and facilities located on the proposed site as well
as adjoining properties. Site plans shall also illustrate the location of all
streams, ponds, lakes, or other watercourses or wetlands located on the
proposed site and adjoining properties. Noted illustrations shall include
distances from the proposed firing lines as well as target lines and backstops;
and/or
            11.   Site plans may include information and illustrations
regarding shot fall zones, safety zones, buffers, baffles, and any other
information or mitigation techniques that may address concerns over
compatibility, property values, or the general welfare of the adjoining
properties and the community at large.
         (c)   Range development general standards. All firing ranges shall
meet the following performance and developmental standards.
            1.   Shot containment. All firing range facilities shall be
designed and operated in a manner to contain all bullets, shot, arrows, or
other projectiles or any other debris on the rage facility.
            2.   Exploding targets. The discharge of an explosive device shall
only be utilized for the purpose of shot confirmation. This type of target
system shall only be allowed when used in conjunction with manufacturers
specifications for use. Any misuse of this type of target system which results
in the creation and/or propulsion or shrapnel is strictly prohibited.
            3.   Noise mitigation. Noise generated from firing range facilities
shall not escape the facility property or boundary lines at levels greater than
60 dBA when located adjacent to properties zoned or utilized for residential/
agricultural use and 75 dBA when adjacent to properties zoned or utilized for
commercial or industrial use as specified by Chapter 92 of this code. It shall
be the responsibility of the firing range owner to mitigate and verify escaping
noise levels.
            4.   Range orientation. Ranges shall be designed so that the
direction of fire shall be parallel to or perpendicular to and away from the
public right(s)-of-way or dedicated access easements. All outdoor ranges shall
be developed in a manner to ensure that streams, ponds, lakes, or other
watercourses or wetlands are not located between any firing line and target
line with exception granted to skeet ranges utilizing steel shot ammunition.
            5.   Drainage and erosion control. The range and associated
facilities shall be designed to keep storm runoff from the range site at a
volume and velocity no greater than what existed prior to range development.
Appropriate erosion control measures shall be designed and installed to
maintain water quality and prevent contamination from stormwater runoff.
            6.   Warning signs. Warning signs meeting the National Rifle
Association (NRA) guidelines for firing ranges shall be posted, spaced not more
than 100 feet apart, along the property boundary lines of all outdoor ranges in
which the facility is located. Signage shall announce the potential dangers and
presence of an active range utilizing highly visible colors.
            7.   Parking. All required parking facilities shall be located to
the rear of the firing line and shall adhere to §
153.152.
            8.   Structures. All structures and facilities shall adhere to all
federal, state, and local regulations and code requirements.
            9.   Public access. All range facilities shall have access to an
approved private or public street. Internal access to the facility shall be
secured and controlled with ingress and egress permitted only during the
approved operating hours of the facility.
            10.   Safety Officer. All range facilities open to the general
public that allow the discharge of firearms shall provide an NRA Certified
Range Safety Officer or an individual that possesses the knowledge, skills, and
attitude essential to organizing, conducting, and supervising safe shooting
activities and range operations. This safety official shall be located at the
firing line to aide in the proper discharge and safe handling of all weapons
any time live fire is being conducted.
            11.   Safety plans/range rules. Safety plans for the operation of
the range shall be kept in the area of the firing line and made available upon
request by the public or an inspecting agency. Rules and regulations regarding
the operation of the range shall be posted in a manner to be visible to all
participants of the facility.
            12.   Setbacks. All structures, facilities, and components of the
firing range located on the range site shall conform to a minimum 50-foot
setback from all property lines. This setback is intended as a developmental
setback to assist in compatibility of adjacent land uses and not a designated
safety boundary.
         (d)   Final site plan submittal.
            1.   Upon special use approval from the county’s Board of
Adjustment, the property owner shall provide a certified site plan to the
county’s Planning Department for compliance review. The site plan shall include
a notation of all conditions that may have been placed on the development as
approved by the Board of Adjustment as well as any other requirements found
within this chapter.
            2.   Upon completion of the range facility, a certified final as-
built plan shall be submitted to the county’s Planning Department prior to the
final zoning compliance inspection.
         (e)   Annual zoning inspection. In order to ensure special use
approval requirements and development standards are adhered to the county’s
Planning Department shall perform an annual zoning compliance inspection on all
approved firing range facilities. Zoning compliance inspections shall be
performed and verified utilizing the certified final as-built plans for county
approved firing range facilities. All approved facilities failing to comply
with special use requirements or range development general standards shall be
held in violation of this chapter. All facilities found to be in violation
shall be subject to enforcement actions specified within this chapter in §
153.999.
         (f)   Existing and nonconforming firing range facilities. All existing
and nonconforming firing range facilities shall be required to adhere to the
following performance standards.
            1.   The facility shall be maintained in a manner that will contain
all projectiles within the property boundary lines.
            2.   The facility shall not engage in any activity that causes an
increase in the nonconformity of the nonconforming firing range.
            3.   The facility shall not increase the total amount of space
devoted to the firing range facility.
            4.   Facilities shall not perform physical alteration of structures
or placement of new structures that results in the increase of total area used
in conjunction with the firing range facility and/or operations.
            5.   Minor repairs and routine property maintenance shall be
permitted for all existing structures, berms, and safety devices.
            6.   Existing and/or nonconforming firing ranges shall not be
allowed to detonate any explosive device with the exception of exploding
targets utilized for target confirmation. The utilization of exploding targets
shall adhere to the manufacturers’ specification for use and shall not be
placed or contained in an object which will result in the release of shrapnel.
   (F)   Retail services.
      (1)   Convenience stores and convenience type business establishments.
         (a)   A maximum of 5,000 square feet of gross floor area shall be
permitted.
         (b)   Area dedicated to the preparation and distribution of food for
on-site consumption shall be limited to 25% of the total floor space.
         (c)   Any canopy, including those for provided for fuel servicing,
shall be a minimum of 20 feet from adjacent right(s)-of-way.
      (2)   Flea markets, rummage, second hand sales, and activities, indoor.
Indoor and outdoor facilities shall be subject to the following requirements:
         (a)   Preparation and sale of perishable foods shall be regulated by
G.S. § 130A-247, G.S. § 130A-248, and T15A NCAC 18A .2600.
         (b)   Sale or trade of exotic, domestic, or farm animals shall be
prohibited.
         (c)   Any outdoor display area shall comply with the regulations of §
153.160, as applicable, and in no case shall any items be left outdoors when
the facility is not open for business.
         (d)   All buildings or structures shall be installed in accordance
with the North Carolina State Building Code.
         (e)   All temporary articles of outdoor display, including but not
limited to, fold- up tables, racks, tents, tarps, shelters, coverings of any
type, or vehicles used, shall be removed from dusk to dawn.
         (f)   All outdoor flea markets shall be located on a minimum of ten
acres of contiguous land.
      (3)   Retail sales. Any accessory display area shall comply with the
requirements set forth in §
153.160  as applicable.
      (4)   Retail sales, outdoor.
         (a)   Any accessory display area shall comply with the requirements
set forth in §
153.160 as applicable.
         (b)   Any accessory outdoor storage area shall comply with the
requirements set forth in §
153.158(B)(4).
      (5)   Shopping center.
         (a)   All outparcels developed as part of a shopping center shall be
accessed internally, via the permitted entrances for the shopping center
itself.
         (b)   Provisions for delivery of goods shall be made so as not to
interfere with customer access or parking.
         (c)   Sidewalks shall be a minimum of eight feet in width and shall be
provided in a continuous internal manner, connecting all stores entrances
included as part of the primary building and shall be distinguished from
driveways or other elements used for vehicular access.
         (d)   Any accessory display area shall comply with the requirements
set forth in §
153.160.
         (e)   Any accessory outdoor storage area shall comply with the
requirements set forth in §
153.158(B)(4).
      (6)   Sexually-oriented business (adult bookstore, motion picture
theater, nightclub). This use shall be located not less than 2,000 feet from
any religious structure, educational institution, school, or any other sexually
oriented business permitted by this chapter, dwelling unit, or any area zoned
for residential use. The measurement is to be taken from the exterior walls of
the building containing the so regulated use and shall meet the measurement
requirements in the north, south, east, and west directions.
   (G)   Vehicle services.
      (1)   Automobile repair facility. Wherever the provisions of other
sections of this chapter require a greater requirement (such as buffers,
maintenance, setbacks, and the like) the provisions of such statute shall
govern. The following standards shall be adhered to no later than November 15,
2005 by all property owners.
         (a)   Junked and inoperable motor vehicles and/or parts storage areas
shall be screened from view from adjacent property and/or public or private
right(s)-of-way. The screening shall be a minimum of six feet in height and
shall consist of an opaque fence or continuous row of evergreen shrubs.
         (b)   Required fencing shall be designed to reasonably secure the area
from unauthorized entry.
         (c)   All operations, equipment, inoperable motor vehicles, and/or
junk shall be kept within required secure area at all times, unless in motion
by transportation to and from the site.
         (d)   Maximum two inoperable or junked vehicles outside of secured
area or enclosed building, unless otherwise specified, shall be permitted.
         (e)   Vehicles shall be stored in such a manner that all fire
apparatuses and equipment can access all areas of the site at all times and
shall be in accordance with all local, state, and federal regulations.
         (f)   Equipment, inoperable motor vehicles, parts, and/or junk shall
not be located within the required front yard or buffer area.
         (g)   A minimum of 50% of the required parking for automobile repair
facilities shall be surfaced with asphalt or concrete. All handicapped
accessible parking and any parking located in the front yard shall be paved.
Remaining parking areas, if not paved, shall be graded and surfaced with
crushed stone, gravel, or other suitable material with a minimum depth of six
inches. The areas shall be maintained in a manner that prevents dust from
adversely impacting adjoining properties and right(s)-of-way. Measures shall be
taken to prevent damage to the environment.
         (h)   The operational area of existing facilities shall not be
expanded, except in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
         (i)   The sale of vehicles on premises shall be limited to four
vehicles within any one-year period.
      (2)   Car wash.
         (a)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses, including, but not limited to,
vacuum stations, shall be permitted within the required side and rear yards
only.
         (b)   Manned car wash facilities. Parking requirements for manned car
wash facilities shall be calculated using the minimum criteria included in the
“Table of use types and regulations” found in §
153.105 (B) and shall not include bays in determining the minimum required
parking spaces.
         (c)   Unmanned car wash facilities.
            1.   Parking requirements for unmanned car was facilities shall be
calculated using the minimum criteria included in the “Table of use types and
regulations”found in §
153.105(B) and shall include one parking space per bay.
            2.   A minimum 20-foot paved drive aisle shall be installed for all
drive aisles required or necessitated by such use.
      (3)   Repossession storage facility.
         (a)   No sales, repair, or servicing of repossessed merchandise shall
be permitted on-site.
         (b)   Loading and unloading of repossessed merchandise shall take
place within required fencing or designated area on-site.
         (c)   Lighting shall be oriented so as not to project onto adjoining
property or right(s)-of-way.
         (d)   Unusual sound emissions including, but not limited to, alarms,
bells, buzzers, or the like shall be limited to daytime hours only. All alarms
shall be silent during nighttime hours.
         (e)   Repossessed merchandise shall not be a health or safety
nuisance, nor shall the area constitute a health or safety nuisance according
to the county’s Department of Public Health.
         (f)   Repossessed merchandise shall be entirely concealed during all
seasons of the year from public view from the right(s)-of-way and from
adjoining property.
      (4)   Vehicle sales, leasing, and rental.
         (a)   In no case shall the display area be located within public or
private right(s)-of-way or in required landscaping or buffer yards.
         (b)   A permanent sales office shall be located on the site of the
sales lot.
         (c)   No vehicle shall be parked or stored as a source of parts.
         (d)   Vehicle sales, leasing or rental activities are prohibited
within approved residential subdivisions.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 11-17-2014; Res. passed 10-19-2015; Res.
passed 11-16-2020; Ord. 2023-21, passed 10-16-2023; Ord. 2024-15, passed 5-20-
2024; Ord. 2024-31, passed 11-18-2024) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.112 INDUSTRIAL USES.
   (A)   Alternative energy.
      (1)   Ethanol diesel and biofuel production.
         (a)   Storage tanks shall be located inside an above-ground
containment area made of concrete that can hold 100% of the tank size located
within it. The containment area may be constructed of other materials upon
approval by the county’s Fire Code Official.
         (b)   Acceptable storage tank materials include aluminum, steel,
fluorinated polyethylene, fluorinated polypropylene, Teflon, and other similar
durable, noncorrosive materials. Copper, brass, lead, tin, and zinc are
prohibited.
         (c)   Fuel shall be dispensed from either a gravity flow or vacuum
flow pump.
         (d)   Facility and all accessory structures (storage tanks, buildings,
and the like) shall be setback a minimum of 500 feet from the public right(s)-
of-way and all property lines.
      (2)   Solar energy facility.
         (a)   Solar power electric generation structures shall not exceed 25
feet in height.
         (b)   Active solar structures shall meet the minimum setback for the
zoning district in which it is located or be setback a minimum of 25 feet from
all property lines or right(s)-of-way, whichever is greater.
         (c)   Applications for all solar energy facilities shall include a
site plan with those items required elsewhere by this chapter, as well as the
following:
            1.   Elevation drawings of all solar energy structures;
            2.   Location of all solar energy structures on the property; and
            3.   Distance of all solar energy structures to property lines.
         (d)   Applications for grid-intertie photovoltaic systems or
facilities shall include evidence that the owner(s) or operator(s) has been
approved by the appropriate utility company to install an interconnected
customer-owned generator. Installation of systems or facilities shall not occur
until this evidence has been supplied. Off-grid systems are exempt from this
requirement.
         (e)   Electric components of solar structures shall have an
Underwriters Laboratories (UL) listing.
         (f)   All photovoltaic systems shall comply with the most recent
edition of the National Electrical Code.
         (g)   All solar structures shall be inspected by a County Building
Inspector.
      (3)   Wind energy facility.
         (a)   Wind energy facility structures shall be setback from all
property lines and public rights-of-way a distance equal to one linear foot for
every foot of height of the highest structure that is part of the facility or
the minimum setback for the zoning district in which it is located, whichever
is greater.
         (b)   Shadow flicker at any occupied building on a nonparticipating
property caused by a wind energy facility located within 2,500 feet of the
occupied building shall not exceed 30 hours per year.
         (c)   The maximum height of wind turbines is 80 feet unless evidence
is submitted otherwise showing approval for additional height from the county’s
Fire Code Official.
         (d)   Attachment of structures for the collection of wind energy to a
building of any kind shall be prohibited.
         (e)   Applications and/or site plans for wind energy facilities shall
include the following items, in addition to those items required elsewhere by
this chapter:
            1.   The approximate generating capacity of the facility;
            2.   The representative type and height of the wind turbines to be
constructed, including dimensions, manufacturer, generator capacity per
turbine, and a description of any ancillary facilities or structures;
            3.   An environmental assessment for wind energy facilities shall
be provided for review by the county and the state clearinghouse for
distribution. Certification of distribution of the environmental assessment
shall also be provided;
            4.   Evidence of compliance with applicable FAA regulations;
            5.   Location of all wind turbines and wind energy collection
related structures;
            6.   Access easement necessary for the use and maintenance of the
facility and related structures;
            7.   The distance of wind turbines and wind energy collection
related structures to the nearest property lines; and
            8.   Evidence that the owner(s) or operator(s) has been approved by
the appropriate utility company to install an interconnected customer-owned
generator. Such evidence shall be in the form of written verification that the
plans have been reviewed, and if built to plans, the facility will be accepted
by the utility company. Installation of systems or facilities shall not occur
until this evidence has been supplied.
         (f)   All applications for wind energy facilities located within ten
miles of a military base shall be forwarded for review to the applicable
military department or consultant.
         (g)   The visual appearance of wind energy facilities shall, at a
minimum:
            1.   Be a non-obtrusive color such as white, off-white, or gray;
            2.   Not be artificially lighted, except to the extent required by
the FAA; and
            3.   Not display advertising (including flags, streamers, or
decorative items), except for identification of the turbine manufacturer,
facility owner(s), and operator.
         (h)   Installation and design of a wind energy facility shall conform
to the applicable industry standards, including those of the American National
Standards Institute.
         (i)   Any onsite collector system shall, to the maximum extent
possible, be placed underground.
         (j)   The noise emitted from such facility shall be in compliance with
the applicable regulations of the county’s Sheriff’s Department. Evidence of
such shall be furnished with the application for a wind energy system.
         (k)   Decommissioning plans that describe the anticipated life of the
facility, estimated decommissioning costs in current dollars, the method for
ensuring that funds will be available for decommissioning and restoration, and
the anticipated manner in which the facility will be decommissioned and the
site restored to predevelopment conditions shall be required.
   (B)   Manufacturing.
      (1)   Manufacturing, fertilizer. Any accessory outdoor storage area shall
comply with the requirements set forth in §
153.158(B)(4).
      (2)   Manufacturing, general.
         (a)   Any accessory display area shall comply with the requirements
set forth in §
153.160 as applicable.
         (b)   Any accessory outdoor storage area shall comply with the
requirements set forth in §
153.158(B)(4).
      (3)   Manufacturing, light. Subject to the following requirements:
 
Land Use                                          Maximum Lot Area
Agricultural and rural residential                No greater than 15 acres
Employment mixed use                              No greater than 15 acres
Low density residential                           No greater than 15 acres
Medium density residential                        No greater than 15 acres
Protected areas, environmentally sensitive areas, N/A
compact mixed use, rural center
 
         (a)   All permitted uses, their constituent operations, and associated
activities (except parking, loading, and domestic solid waste containment)
shall be conducted totally within a building or buildings such that all yard
spaces and grounds shall be kept clear and open.
         (b)   All manufacturing shall be of a nature and conducted in such a
manner that there is no discharge of smoke or particle matter into the outside
air.
         (c)   All manufacturing shall be of a nature and conducted in such a
manner that there is no offensive odor or noise emitted and discernable at an
adjacent property. Further, the noise emitted from such facility shall be in
compliance with the applicable regulations of the county’s Sheriff’s
Department.
         (d)   Any accessory display area shall comply with the requirements
set forth in §
153.160 as applicable.
         (e)   Any accessory outdoor storage area shall comply with the
requirements set forth in §
153.158(B)(4).
   (C)   Warehousing and freight handling.
      (1)   Assembly, processing industries, wholesale, and warehouses.
         (a)   Any accessory display area shall comply with the requirements
set forth in §
153.160 as applicable.
         (b)   Any accessory outdoor storage area shall comply with the
requirements set forth in §
153.158(B)(4).
      (2)   Distribution center. Distribution centers shall meet the use
regulations set forth in this section for “assembly, processing industries,
wholesale, and warehouses” found in §
153.112(C)(1) above, as applicable.
      (3)   Storage, personal recreational vehicle and travel trailer. A
personal travel trailer or recreational vehicle shall be parked or stored in
the rear or side yard of the owner’s residential lot; provided that no living
quarters shall be maintained, nor any business conducted therein while such
recreational vehicle or travel trailer is so parked or stored (not subject to
lot size requirements), unless otherwise specified within this chapter. This is
intended as private, personal storage only and not for business purposes.
      (4)   Storage, self mini-warehouse. Subject to the following
requirements:
         (a)   Maximum building height of 20 feet.
         (b)   A secured fence of at least six feet in height shall surround
the perimeter of the storage facility.
         (c)   Adequate lighting shall be provided to illuminate the storage
facility. The minimum size streetlight shall be a 175-watt mercury-vapor
(approximately 7,000 lumen class) or its equivalent, spaced at intervals of not
more than 300 feet.
         (d)   No outside storage shall be permitted except as provided below.
         (e)   Outdoor storage of boats, vehicles (including motorcycles),
recreational vehicles, campers, equipment, materials, etc. in designated spaces
shall meet the following requirements:
            1.   If outdoor storage space is proposed the area shall be
designated as outdoor storage on the required site plan. Existing facilities
expanding to include outdoor storage shall submit a revised site plan showing
such, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
            2.   Area designated for outdoor storage shall not be visible from
adjacent right(s)-of-way and shall install a Type D buffer along the exterior
of the perimeter fencing.
            3.   If associated with a mini-storage facility that will have
enclosed storage buildings, outdoor storage space(s) shall be located at the
rear or side of the site.
            4.   No inoperable vehicles, or other items as listed above, shall
be stored on-site unless on a towable trailer with the intent to transport in a
timely manner.
         (f)   The storage of hazardous, toxic, or explosive substances shall
be prohibited; and/or
         (g)   No business activity sales, service, or repair activities, other
than rental of the storage units or spaces, shall be conducted within the
storage facilities.
   (D)   Wholesale trade. Wholesale storage of gasoline or bulk terminal
plants:
      (1)   No above ground storage tank shall be closer than 50 feet to any
property line; and
      (2)   Uses shall be in conformity with the federal, state, and local
regulations governing the storage of combustible fuels.
   (E)   Waste related.
      (1)   Recycling collection centers. All facilities shall be located in a
side or rear yard.
      (2)   Solid waste disposal.
         (a)   Buffer. Required buffer shall meet the requirements of this
chapter; however, the buffer shall be continuous and shall not be permitted to
follow the spacing requirements.
         (b)   Location. Any structure shall be located at least 300 feet from
any residentially zoned property line or 50 feet from all other property lines.
         (c)   Travel way surface. 
            1.   The main travel way and all active travel ways shall be
surfaced in asphalt or concrete from, at a minimum, the right(s)-of-way to all
structures located on-site.
            2.   All unpaved areas shall be maintained in a manner that
prevents dust from adversely impacting adjoining properties and right(s)-of-
way.
         (d)   Transfer stations. There shall be no outdoor storage of waste
products, unless entirely enclosed in containers and storage bins that are
durable, waterproof, rustproof, covered, and secure from unauthorized entry.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 3-21-2016; Res. passed 9-16-2019)
§ 153.113 UTILITY USES.
   (A)   Privately owned public utility structures. Structures and facilities
that are installed by privately owned public utility systems, including, but
not limited to, electric, telephone, gas, and cable distributing companies, for
the purpose of supplying, extending, or enhancing service shall be a permitted
use in all zoning districts, provided that any above ground structures or
facilities does not create any enclosed area that can be wholly or partially
occupied by an individual for any appreciable period of time, other than for
the normal and customary construction, repair, and maintenance of such
structure or facility.
      (1)   The above ground structure or facility, and any associated concrete
slab, shall be required to meet the front, side, and rear yard setback
requirements of the respective zoning districts.
      (2)   Towers, where permitted, shall meet the requirements of the
respective zoning districts.
      (3)   A special use permit shall be required for such use if the
structure is 600 square feet or larger or if it is located within the
Conservation Zoning District, regardless of the size of the structure.
   (B)   Public utility structures.
      (1)   The above ground structure or facility, and any associated concrete
slab, shall be required to meet the front, side, and rear yard setback
requirements of the respective zoning districts.
      (2)   Towers, where permitted, shall meet the requirements of the
respective zoning districts.
      (3)   Structures above ground, installed as part of a public utility
system, less than one acre of area shall be exempt from the requirements listed
in §
153.158.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.114 TEMPORARY USES.
   All temporary uses shall obtain a temporary land use and zoning permit,
except modular classrooms. Modular classrooms shall obtain a land use and
zoning permit as required for other uses regulated by the chapter.
   (A)   Modular classrooms. Modular classrooms shall have underpinning
consisting of a brick curtain wall or have galvanized metal sheeting, or ABS,
or PVC plastic color skirting within interlocking edges, installed around the
perimeter of the structure. Skirting shall be consistent in appearance, in good
condition, continuous, permanent, and unpierced except for ventilation and
access.
   (B)   Nonresidential building, temporary. Temporary buildings used for
nonresidential purposes may be located in any zoning district, but only if they
are temporary uses such as construction field offices, construction supplies,
and equipment storage or temporary offices. Temporary land use and zoning
permits and building permits for such uses shall be obtained from the
appropriate administrative officials and shall be renewed every 180 days for a
period not to exceed one year. Manufactured homes shall not be converted into
storage buildings.
   (C)   Portable food sales. 
      (1)   Portable food sales establishments shall be permitted on a
temporary basis of 120 days per any 12-month period, unless otherwise permitted
by the Department of Public Health. In cases where the Department of Public
Health issues a permit for a shorter period of time, this period shall apply
for purposes of this chapter. A temporary land use and zoning permit shall be
required.
      (2)   Applications for portable food sales shall include a copy of the
required permit from the county’s Health Department.
      (3)   In addition to the minor site plan requirements elsewhere in this
chapter, facilities located on improved sites shall provide evidence that the
existing parking is adequate to serve the existing facility, minus those spaces
used for location of the facility, as well as serve the proposed facility
itself.
      (4)   Tables shall be allowed on existing, improved sites, only where
evidence has been shown that there is adequate parking to serve such, in
addition to the parking already required for the facility, and shall be
permanently, or semi-permanently, anchored to the ground.
      (5)   All food or beverages sold from such a facility shall be ready for
consumption.
      (6)   No consumption of food or beverages shall take place within the
food preparation facility.
   (D)   Residence, temporary.
      (1)   Where applicable, a temporary residence shall be permitted for a
period of 180 days, renewable for an additional 30 days from staff, or longer
as approved by the Board of Adjustment, when an existing or proposed primary or
secondary residence, located on the same lot, is deemed uninhabitable due to
renovation or construction. Recreational vehicles (RVs) shall be allowed as a
temporary residence.
      (2)   The temporary residence shall receive a temporary land use and
zoning permit.
      (3)   Temporary residences shall be located in the required side or rear
yard.
   (E)   Roadside stands.
      (1)   Sales shall be limited to that of agricultural products grown or
produced on the same premises.
      (2)   Such sales shall operate for a maximum of 45 days per season in
which products are grown or produced.
   (F)   Seasonal sales.
      (1)   Seasonal sales facilities shall be located on a minor collector
road or greater, as identified by NCDOT.
      (2)   In no case shall the construction of a building or permanent
structure be permitted as part of the use.
      (3)   In no case shall a recreational vehicle be used as part of this
facility.
      (4)   Such sales shall operate for a maximum of 90 days per calendar
year.
   (G)   Temporary events.
      (1)   Temporary events shall be permitted on a temporary basis of 15 days
per any 12-month period. A temporary land use and zoning permit shall be
required.
      (2)   Applications shall include a copy of the required permit from the
county’s Department of Public Health.
      (3)   In addition to the minor site plan requirements elsewhere in this
chapter, facilities located on improved sites shall provide evidence that the
existing parking is adequate to serve the existing facility, minus those spaces
used for location of the facility, as well as serve the proposed facility
itself.
      (4)   The use of public right(s)-of-way for overflow parking or any other
purpose shall be prohibited.
      (5)   All required building inspections shall be completed in accordance
with the North Carolina State Building Code.
   (H)   Turkey shoot, temporary/seasonal.
      (1)   Applicant shall obtain a temporary land use and zoning permit and
provide a minor site plan at the time of application. The temporary land use
and zoning permit shall be made available and easily accessible throughout the
duration of the period for which the turkey shoot is permitted.
      (2)   All turkey shoots shall be established with the line of fire
perpendicular to and away from the right(s)-of-way.
      (3)   No turkey shoot shall be permitted within the required setback.
      (4)   Structures or facilities shall be constructed a minimum of 100 feet
from any residential structure, except for the residential structure used by
the owner(s)/operator(s).
      (5)   All backstops shall be constructed of a material that will allow
the shot to penetrate and not pass through. It shall be a minimum thickness of
two feet and maintained at a height of four feet above the target.
      (6)   Adequate, handicap accessible restroom and parking facilities shall
be provided.
      (7)   Adequate parking shall be provided so as not to interfere with the
surrounding properties. All unpaved areas shall be maintained in a manner that
prevents dust from adversely impacting adjoining properties and right(s)-of-
way.
         (a)   This shall prohibit the use of public right(s)-of-way for
overflow parking.
         (b)   Parking spaces shall be a minimum of 50 feet from all
residential structures.
      (8)   A safety zone shall be designated from the firing line to and
including the edge of the installed backstop at a ten degree angle. The safety
zone shall be easily identified in order to be recognized by participants and
to prohibit entry during the event.
      (9)   The greatest allowable caliber firearm used shall be a 12 gauge and
the greatest allowable shot size shall be seven and one-half.
      (10)   Structures or facilities for use by the general public and/or
participants shall be constructed to the North Carolina State Building Code.
      (11)   Turkey shoots shall be permitted for a period of time not to
exceed 180 days in a given year.
      (12)   The amount of noise generated shall not disrupt the activities of
the adjacent land uses. The noise emitted from such facility shall be in
compliance with the applicable regulations of the county’s Sheriff’s
Department.
   (I)   Yard sale.
      (1)   There shall be a maximum of two sales, not to exceed two days per
sale, per calendar year on any one lot.
      (2)   All yard sales shall take place on an improved lot.
      (3)   Any signs advertising such yard sale shall be removed at the
conclusion of the sale.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 6-18-2012)
§ 153.115 OTHER USES.
   (A)   Airports and related uses.
      (1)   Within the Industrial Zoning District, publicly owned airports
shall be a permitted use and privately owned airports, whether for public or
private use, shall require a special use permit.
      (2)   A development plan shall be submitted with the initial application
for an airport or at any time that proposed development varies significantly
from the existing development plan. The development plan shall follow the
requirements set forth in §
153.066.
      (3)   The minimum setback for airport related structures shall be 15 feet
from all perimeter property lines.
   (B)   Communications tower (microwave, tv, telephone, radio, and cellular).
      (1)   Exempt facilities. The following items are exempt from the
provisions of this section; notwithstanding any other provisions of this
chapter:
         (a)   Any tower less than 50 feet in height or communications towers
existing or permitted prior to the adoption of this chapter;
         (b)   Satellite earth stations that are one meter (39.37 inches) or
less in diameter in all residential zoning districts and two meters or less in
all other zoning districts;
         (c)   A government-owned communications facility, upon the declaration
of a state of emergency by federal, state, or local government, and a written
determination of public necessity by the county designee; except that such
facility shall comply with all federal and state requirements. No
communications facility shall be exempt from the provisions of this division
(B)(1) beyond the duration of the state of emergency;
         (d)   A government-owned communications facility erected for the
purposes of installing antenna(s) and ancillary equipment necessary to provide
communications for public health and safety;
         (e)   A temporary, commercial communications facility, upon the
declaration of a state of emergency by federal, state, or local government, or
determination of public necessity by the county and approved by the county;
except that such facility shall comply with all federal and state requirements.
The communications facility may be exempt from the provisions of this division
(B)(1) up to three months after the duration of the state of emergency; and/or
         (f)   A temporary, commercial communications facility, for the
purposes of providing coverage of a special event such as news coverage or
sporting event, subject to approval by the county, except that such facility
shall comply with all federal and state requirements. The communications
facility may be exempt from the provisions of this division (B)(1) up to one
week after the duration of the special event.
      (2)   General provisions.
         (a)   Application of this section. This section shall apply to the
development activities including installation, construction, or modification of
all antenna and tower facilities including, but not limited to:
            1.   Non-commercial, amateur radio station antennas;
            2.   Existing towers;
            3.   Proposed towers;
            4.    Public towers;
            5.    Mitigation of towers;
            6.    Co-location on existing towers;
            7.    Attached wireless communications facilities;
            8.    Concealed wireless communications facilities;
            9.    Non-concealed towers; and/or
            10.    Broadcast facilities.
         (b)   Abandonment (discontinued use).
            1.   Towers, antennas, and the equipment compound shall be removed,
at the owner’s expense, within 180 days of cessation of use, unless the
abandonment is associated with mitigation as provided in divisions (B)(5)(e)
and (B)(5)(f) below, in which case the removal shall occur within 90 days of
cessation of use.
            2.   An owner wishing to extend the time for removal or
reactivation shall submit an application stating the reason for such extension.
The county may extend the time for removal or reactivation up to 60 additional
days upon a showing of good cause. If the tower or antenna is not removed
within this time, the county may give notice that it will contract for removal
within 30 days following written notice to the owner. Thereafter, the county
may cause removal of the tower with costs being borne by the owner.
            3.   Upon removal of the tower, antenna, and equipment compound,
the development area shall be returned to its natural state and topography and
vegetated consistent with the natural surroundings or consistent with the
current uses of the surrounding or adjacent land at the time of removal,
excluding the foundation, which does not have to be removed.
         (c)   Interference with public safety communications. In order to
facilitate the regulation, placement, and construction of antenna, and to
ensure that all parties are complying to the fullest extent possible with the
rules, regulations, and/or guidelines of the FCC, each owner of an antenna,
antenna array or applicant for a co-location shall agree in a written statement
to the following:
            1.   Compliance with good engineering practices, as defined by the
FCC in its rules and regulations;
            2.   Compliance with FCC regulations regarding susceptibility to
radio frequency interference, frequency coordination requirements, general
technical standards for power, antenna, bandwidth limitations, frequency
stability, transmitter measurements, operating requirements, and any and all
other federal statutory and regulatory requirements relating to radio frequency
interference (RFI);
            3.   In the case of an application for co-located
telecommunications facilities, the applicant, together with the owner of the
subject site, shall use its best efforts to provide a composite analysis of all
users of the site to determine that the applicant’s proposed facilities will
not cause radio frequency interference with the county’s public safety
communications equipment and will implement appropriate technical measures, as
described in antenna element replacements, to attempt to prevent such
interference; and/or
            4.   Whenever the county has encountered radio frequency
interference with its public safety communications equipment, and it believes
that such interference has been or is being caused by one or more antenna
arrays, the following steps shall be taken.
               a.   The county shall provide notification to all wireless
service providers operating in the county of possible interference with the
public safety communications equipment, and upon such notifications, the owners
shall use their best efforts to cooperate and coordinate with the county and
among themselves to investigate and mitigate the interference, if any,
utilizing the procedures set forth in the joint wireless industry-public safety
Best Practices Guide, released by the FCC, including the good engineering
practices, as may be amended or revised by the FCC from time to time.
               b.   If any equipment owner fails to cooperate with the county
in complying with the owner’s obligations under this section or if the FCC
makes a determination of radio frequency interference with the county public
safety communications equipment, the owner who failed to cooperate and/or the
owner of the equipment which caused the interference shall be responsible, upon
FCC determination of radio frequency interference, for reimbursing the county
for all costs associated with ascertaining and resolving the interference,
including, but not limited to, any engineering studies obtained by the county
to determine the source of the interference. For the purposes of this division
(B)(2)(c)4.b., failure to cooperate shall include failure to initiate any
response or action as described in Best Practices Guide within 24 hours of
county’s notification.
      (3)   Antennas, towers, and associated equipment.
         (a)   Building code requirements. Towers shall be constructed and
maintained in conformance with all applicable building code requirements.
         (b)   Locating alternatives order.
            1.   Locating alternatives order of new antenna array and new
towers. 
               a.   Location of a new antenna array and new tower shall be in
accordance with the following preferred locating alternatives order.
               b.   Location on publicly-owned property shall be preferred over
location on non publicly-owned property for each locating alternative:
                  i.   Concealed attached antenna;
                  ii.   Co-located or combined antenna on existing tower;
                  iii.   Non-concealed attached antenna;
                  iv.   Mitigation of existing tower;
                  v.   Concealed freestanding tower; and
                  vi.   Non-concealed freestanding tower.
            2.   Locating alternatives order of attached, co-located, and
combined antenna. For attached, co-located, or combined antenna, the order of
ranking preference, highest to lowest, shall follow the same ranking as
provided in divisions (B)(3)(b)1.a. through (B)(3)(b)1.d. above. Where a lower
ranked alternative is proposed, the applicant shall file relevant information
as required including, but not limited to, an affidavit by a radio frequency
engineer demonstrating that despite diligent efforts to adhere to the
established hierarchy within the geographic search area, higher ranked options
are not technically feasible, practical or justified given the location of the
proposed communications facility.
            3.   Locating alternatives order of mitigation and freestanding
towers. Where a mitigated or freestanding tower is permitted the order of
ranking preference from highest to lowest shall follow the same ranking as
provided in divisions (B)(3)(b)1.d. through (B)(3)(b)1.f. above. Where a lower
ranked alternative is proposed, the applicant shall file relevant information
as required and demonstrate higher ranked options are not technically feasible,
practical, or justified given the location of the proposed communications
facility, and the existing land uses of the subject and surrounding properties
within 300 feet of the subject property.
         (c)   Facility use regulations and required permits. New antennas and
towers shall be permitted in the county according to the table below.
                   Co-
                   Located   Non-      Mitigation              Non-
Zoning   Concealed or        concealed of         Concealed    concealed    Antenna
District Attached  Combining Attached  Existing   Freestanding Freestanding Element
         Antenna   on        Antenna*  Tower      Tower        Tower        Replacement
                   Existing
                   Tower
                    Co-
                    Located   Non-      Mitigation              Non-
Zoning    Concealed or        concealed of         Concealed    concealed    Antenna
District  Attached  Combining Attached  Existing   Freestanding Freestanding Element
          Antenna   on        Antenna*  Tower      Tower        Tower        Replacement
                    Existing
                    Tower
COMM      Level II  Level II  Level II  Level II   Level II     Level III    Level II
                                        and III                 and IV
CONS      Level II  Level II  Level II  Level II   Level II     Level III    Level II
                                        and III
HCO/MCO   Level II  Level II  Level II  Level II   Level II                  Level II
                                        and III
Height                                  Level II
Control   Level II  Level II  Level II  and III    Level II                  Level II
Ordinance
IND       Level II  Level II  Level II  Level II   Level II     Level III    Level II
                                        and III                 and IV
LI        Level II  Level II  Level II  Level II   Level II     Level III    Level II
                                        and III                 and IV
O&I       Level II  Level II  Level II  Level II   Level II                  Level II
                                        and III
RA-20M    Level II  Level II  Level II  Level II   Level II                  Level II
                                        and III
RA-20R    Level II  Level II  Level II  Level II   Level II                  Level II
                                        and III
RA-30     Level II  Level II  Level II  Level II   Level II                  Level II
                                        and III
RA-40     Level II  Level II  Level II  Level II   Level II                  Level II
                                        and III
Note: Level I towers are permitted in all zoning districts.
*Non-concealed attached antennas are only allowed on transmission towers and light
stanchions.
 
      (4)   Permit (Level I) amateur radio towers.
         (a)   Application requirements. All permit (Level I) applications
shall contain the following:
            1.   Completion of the communications tower permit application;
            2.   Application fee;
            3.   Site plan; and
            4.   Valid FCC amateur operator’s license.
         (b)   Tower height. Tower height and location shall comply with
federal and state law. Towers shall not exceed 199 feet unless FCC approval is
demonstrated.
         (c)   Setbacks. A distance equal to the height of the tower shall
separate new amateur radio towers from all structures not located on the same
parcel as the tower, property lines, right-of-way lines and/or easements. Any
relocation of amateur radio towers shall remain on same parcel and shall comply
with stated setback requirements, or, if compliance is not possible, the
relocation shall not increase the amount by which setbacks are nonconforming,
other than increases necessitated solely by changes in size of the base to
support the new tower.
      (5)   Permit (Level II) co-location, combination, attachment, antenna
element replacement, replacement towers, and concealed towers.
         (a)   Application requirements. All permit (Level II) applications
shall contain the following:
            1.   Completion of the communications tower permit application;
            2.   Application fee; and
            3.   Site plan.
         (b)   Co-location and combination. The county requires co-location and
combining of antennas on existing communications towers as a first priority
where co-location is possible. Any person, corporation, partnership, or other
entity which intends to co-locate on an existing communications tower within
the jurisdiction of this chapter shall obtain a permit (Level II). Co-locations
are subject to the following:
            1.   A co-located or combined antenna or antenna array shall not
exceed the maximum height prescribed in the special use permit (if applicable)
or increase the height of an existing tower by more than 20 feet and shall not
affect any tower lighting;
            2.   New antenna mounts shall be flush-mounted onto existing
structures, unless it is demonstrated through radio frequency (RF) propagation
analysis that flush-mounted antennas will not meet the network objectives of
the desired coverage area;
            3.   The equipment cabinet shall be subject to the setback
requirements of the underlying zoning district;
            4.   When a co-located or combined antenna is to be located on a
nonconforming building or structure, then the existing permitted nonconforming
setback shall prevail; and/or
            5.   Applications entitled to the streamlined processes described
in G.S. Chapter 160D shall meet all the following requirements:
               a.   The additional antenna array, transmission lines, and
related ancillary equipment including the base station do not exceed the number
of same items previously approved for such tower when originally approved, and
the collocated facility is in complete conformance with the original conditions
imposed on the tower upon which it is being attached;
               b.   The proposed co-location shall not increase the existing
vertical height of the tower by the greater of:
                  i.   More than 10%; or
                  ii.   The height of one additional antenna array with
separation from the nearest existing antenna not to exceed 20 feet.
               c.   The co-location shall not increase the ground space area
approved in the communications tower site plan for equipment enclosures and
ancillary facilities by more than 2,500 square feet;
               d.   The existing tower on which the co-location will attach
shall comply with applicable regulations, restrictions, and/or conditions, if
any, applied to the initial wireless facilities placed on the tower;
               e.   The proposed additional co-location and tower shall comply
with all federal, state, and local safety requirements;
               f.   The proposed co-location and ancillary equipment shall not
exceed the applicable weight limits for the tower; and/or
               g.   Except where necessary to shelter the antenna from
inclement weather or to connect the antenna to the tower via cable, the
proposed co-location shall not add an appurtenance to the body of a tower or
wireless support structure that protrudes horizontally from the edge of the
wireless support structure the greater of:
                  i.   More than 20 feet; or
                  ii.   More than the width of the wireless support structure
at the level of the appurtenance.
         (c)   Concealed and non-concealed attachment. Antennas may be mounted
onto a structure which is not primarily constructed for the purpose of holding
attachment antennas but on which one or more antennas may be mounted. Any
person, corporation, partnership, or other entity which intends to place an
antenna on an alternative structure within the jurisdiction of this chapter
shall obtain a permit (Level II). Attached antenna shall be subject to the
following:
            1.   The top of the attached antenna shall not be more than 20 feet
above the existing or proposed building or structure;
            2.   Non-concealed attachments shall only be allowed on electrical
transmission towers and existing light stanchions subject to approval by the
Planning Department and utility company;
            3.   When an attached antenna is to be located on a nonconforming
building or structure, the existing permitted nonconforming setback shall
prevail; and/or
            4.   Except for non-concealed attached antennas, feed lines and
antennas shall be designed to architecturally match the facade, roof, wall,
and/or structure on which they are affixed so that they blend with the existing
structural design, color, and texture.
         (d)   Antenna element replacement. For any replacement of an existing
antenna element on an antenna, the applicant shall, prior to making such
modifications, submit the following:
            1.   A written statement setting forth the reasons for the
modification;
            2.   A description of the proposed modifications to the antenna,
including modifications to antenna element design, type, and number, as well as
changes in the number and/or size of any feed lines, from the base of the
equipment cabinet to such antenna elements;
            3.   A signed statement from a qualified person, together with
their qualifications, shall be included representing the tower’s owner or
owner’s agent that the radio frequency emissions comply with FCC standards for
such emissions. The statement shall also certify that both individually and
cumulatively, and with any other facilities located on or immediately adjacent
to the proposed facility, the replacement antenna complies with FCC standards;
and
            4.   A stamped or sealed structural analysis of the existing
structure prepared by a professional state land surveyor or engineer indicating
that the existing tower as well as all existing and proposed appurtenances meet
the North Carolina State Building Code requirements, including wind loading,
for the tower.
         (e)   Minimum mitigation accomplishments. Mitigation shall accomplish
a minimum of one of the following:
            1.   Reduce the number of towers;
            2.   Reduce the number of nonconforming towers; or
            3.   Replace an existing tower with a new tower to improve network
functionality resulting in compliance with this chapter.
         (f)   Mitigation requirements. Mitigation is subject to the following:
            1.   No tower shall be mitigated more than one time;
            2.   Height: Level II and Level III:
               a.   Level II. The height of a tower approved for mitigation
shall not exceed 115% of the height of the tallest tower that is being
mitigated (e.g., a 250-foot existing tower could be rebuilt at 287.5 feet); or
               b.   Level III. The height of a tower may exceed 115% of the
height of the tallest tower that is being mitigated approved for mitigation
with undisputable evidence that the new tower will eliminate the need for an
additional antenna array within a distance of two miles. Under no circumstance
shall any mitigated tower exceed a height of 300 feet.
            3.   Setbacks. A new tower approved for mitigation of an existing
tower shall not be required to meet new setback standards so long as the new
tower and its equipment compound are no closer to any property lines or
dwelling units as the tower and equipment compound being mitigated. The intent
is to encourage the mitigation process, not penalize the tower owner for the
change out of the old facility (e.g., if a new tower is replacing an old tower,
the new tower is permitted to have the same setbacks as the tower being
removed, even if the old tower had nonconforming setbacks);
            4.   Breakpoint technology. A newly mitigated monopole or lattice
tower shall use breakpoint technology in the design of the replacement
facility;
            5.   Buffers. At the time of mitigation, the tower equipment
compound shall be brought into compliance with any applicable buffer
requirements; and/or
            6.   Visibility. Mitigated antenna-supporting structures shall be
configured and located in a manner that minimizes adverse effects on the
landscape and adjacent properties, with specific design considerations as to
height, scale, color, texture, and architectural design of the buildings on the
same and adjacent zoned lots.
         (g)   Concealed towers.
            1.   Application requirements. All new communications towers
intended to replace an existing tower where the new tower meets the following
requirements:
               a.   Completion of the communications tower permit application;
               b.   Application fee; and
               c.   Site plan.
            2.   Determination of need. No new or mitigated freestanding tower
shall be permitted unless the applicant demonstrates that no existing tower can
accommodate the applicant’s proposed use; or that use of such existing
facilities would prohibit personal wireless services in the geographic search
area to be served by the proposed tower.
            3.   Height. New concealed towers shall be limited to 199 feet or
less in height. In HCO zones the maximum height shall be 125 feet. Height
calculations shall include above ground foundations, but exclude lightning rods
or lights required by the FAA that do not provide any support for antennas.
            4.   Setbacks. New freestanding towers and equipment compounds
shall be subject to the setbacks described below for breakpoint technology:
               a.   If the tower has been constructed using breakpoint design
technology (see §
153.023), the minimum setback distance shall be equal to 110% of the distance
from the top of the structure to the breakpoint level of the structure, or the
minimum side and rear yard requirements, whichever is greater. Certification by
a professional state land surveyor or engineer of the breakpoint design and the
design’s fall radius shall be provided together with the other information
required herein from an applicant (e.g., on a 100-foot tall monopole with a
breakpoint at 80 feet, the minimum setback distance would be 22 feet (110% of
20 feet, the distance from the top of the monopole to the breakpoint) plus the
minimum side or rear yard setback requirements for that zoning district); and/
or
               b.   If the tower is not constructed using breakpoint design
technology, the minimum setback distance shall be equal to the height of the
proposed tower.
            5.   Equipment cabinets. Cabinets shall not be visible from
pedestrian and right-of-way views. Cabinets may be provided within the
principal building, behind a screen on a rooftop, or on the ground within the
fenced-in and screened equipment compound.
            6.   Fencing. All equipment compounds shall be enclosed with an
opaque fence or masonry wall in residential zoning districts, and in any zoning
district when the equipment compound adjoins a public right-of-way. Alternative
equivalent screening may be approved through the site plan approval process
described herein.
            7.   Signage. Commercial messages shall not be displayed on any
tower. Required noncommercial signage shall be subject to the following:
               a.   The only signage that is permitted upon a tower, equipment
cabinets, or fence shall be informational, and for the purpose of identifying
the tower (such as ASR registration number), as well as the party responsible
for the operation and maintenance of the facility, and any additional security
and/or safety signs as applicable;
               b.   If more than 220 voltage is necessary for the operation of
the facility and is present in a ground grid or in the tower, signs located
every 20 feet and attached to the fence or wall shall display in large, bold,
high contrast letters, minimum height of each letter four inches, the
following: “HIGH VOLTAGE - DANGER”; and/or
               c.   Name plate signage shall be provided, in an easily visible
location, including the address and telephone number of the contact to reach in
the event of an emergency or equipment malfunction, including property manager
signs as applicable.
            8.   Lighting. Lighting on towers shall not exceed the Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA) minimum standards. All other lighting shall be
subject to the following:
               a.   Any lighting required by the FAA shall be of the minimum
intensity and number of flashes per minute (i.e., the longest duration between
flashes) allowable by the FAA. Dual lighting standards are required and strobe
light standards are prohibited unless required by the FAA; and/or
               b.   Lights shall be oriented so as not to project directly onto
surrounding property or rights-of-way, consistent with FAA requirements.
            9.   Equipment Compound. The fenced-in compounds shall not be used
for the storage of any excess equipment or hazardous materials. No outdoor
storage yards shall be allowed in a tower equipment compound. The compound
shall not be used as habitable space.
            10.   Visibility. 
               a.   New towers shall be configured and located in a manner that
shall minimize adverse effects including visual impacts on the landscape and
adjacent properties.
               b.   New freestanding towers shall be designed to match adjacent
structures and landscapes with specific design considerations such as
architectural designs, height, scale, color, and texture.
               c.   A balloon test shall be required subsequent to the receipt
of the photo simulations in order to demonstrate the proposed height of the
tower. The applicant shall arrange to raise a colored balloon no less than
three feet in diameter at the maximum height of the proposed tower, and within
50 horizontal feet of the center of the proposed tower.
               d.   The applicant shall meet the following for the required
balloon test:
                  i.   Applicant shall inform the Planning Department and
abutting property owners in writing of the date and times, including
alternative date and times, of the test at least 14 days in advance;
                  ii.   The date, time, and location, including alternative
date, time and location, of the balloon test shall be advertised in a locally
distributed paper by the applicant at least seven, but no more than 14, days in
advance of the test date;
                  iii.   The balloon shall be flown for at least four
consecutive hours during daylight hours on the date chosen. The applicant shall
record the weather during the balloon test; and
                  iv.   Re-advertisement will not be required if inclement
weather occurs.
               e.   New antenna mounts shall be flush-mounted, unless it is
demonstrated through RF propagation analysis that flush-mounted antennas will
not meet the network objectives of the desired coverage area.
               f.   In residential zoning districts, new towers shall only be
permitted on lots whose principal use is not single-family residential,
including schools, churches, synagogues, fire stations, parks, and other public
property.
               g.   Towers shall be constructed to accommodate antenna arrays
as follows:
                  i.   All freestanding towers up to 120 feet in height shall
be engineered and constructed to accommodate no less than four antenna arrays;
                  ii.   All towers between 121 feet and 150 feet shall be
engineered and constructed to accommodate no less than five antenna arrays;
and/or
                  iii.   All towers between 151 feet and taller shall be
engineered and constructed to accommodate no less than six antenna arrays.
               h.   Grading shall be minimized and limited only to the area
necessary for the new tower and equipment.
      (6)   Permit (Level III) new non-concealed towers.
         (a)   Application requirements. All permit (Level III) applications
shall contain the following:
            1.   Completion of the communications tower permit application;
            2.   Application fee; and
            3.   Site plan.
         (b)   Determination of need. No new or mitigated freestanding tower
shall be permitted unless the applicant demonstrates that no existing tower can
accommodate the applicant’s proposed use; or that use of such existing
facilities would prohibit personal wireless services in the geographic search
area to be served by the proposed tower.
         (c)   Height. Height calculations shall include above ground
foundations, but exclude lightning rods or lights required by the FAA that do
not provide any support for antennas. It is intended that all new non-
broadcasting towers be 199 feet or less in height. However, should a tower be
required in excess of 200 feet, under no circumstance shall any tower exceed
300 feet. All new towers in excess of 199 feet shall be subject to the
following additional requirements:
            1.   Undisputable evidence that the antenna service area will be so
substantially compromised that there would be a requirement of additional
antenna array within a distance of two miles;
            2.   The tower shall be designed to allow for a future reduction of
elevation to no more than 199 feet, or the replacement of the tower with a
monopole type structure at such time as the wireless network had developed to
the point that such heights can be justified; and/or
            3.   In HCO and MCO Zoning Districts, the maximum height shall be
125 feet.
         (d)   Setbacks. New freestanding towers and equipment compounds shall
be subject to the setbacks described below for breakpoint technology.
            1.   If the tower is constructed using breakpoint design technology
(see §
153.023), the minimum setback distance shall be equal to 110% of the distance
from the top of the structure to the breakpoint level of the structure, or the
minimum side and rear yard requirements, whichever is greater. Certification by
a registered professional state engineer of the breakpoint design and the
design’s fall radius shall be provided together with the other information
required herein from an applicant (e.g., on a 100-foot tall monopole with a
breakpoint at 80 feet, the minimum setback distance would be 22 feet (110% of
20 feet, the distance from the top of the monopole to the breakpoint) plus the
minimum side or rear yard setback requirements for that zoning district).
            2.   If the tower is not constructed using breakpoint design
technology, the minimum setback distance shall be equal to the height of the
proposed tower.
         (e)   Equipment cabinets. Cabinets shall not be visible from
pedestrian and right-of-way views. Cabinets may be provided within the
principal building, behind a screen on a rooftop, or on the ground within the
fenced-in and screened equipment compound.
         (f)   Fencing. All equipment compounds shall be enclosed with an
opaque fence or masonry wall in residential zoning districts, and in any zoning
district when the equipment compound adjoins a public right(s)-of-way.
         (g)   Signage. Commercial messages shall not be displayed on any
tower. Required noncommercial signage shall be subject to the following:
            1.   The only signage that is permitted upon a tower, equipment
cabinets, or fence shall be informational, and for the purpose of identifying
the tower (such as ASR registration number), as well as the party responsible
for the operation and maintenance of the facility, and any additional security
and/or safety signs as applicable;
            2.   If more than 220 voltage is necessary for the operation of the
facility and is present in a ground grid or in the tower, signs located every
20 feet and attached to the fence or wall shall display in large, bold, high
contrast letters, minimum height of each letter four inches, the following:
“HIGH VOLTAGE - DANGER”; and/or
            3.   Name plate signage shall be provided, in an easily visible
location, including the address and telephone number of the contact to reach in
the event of an emergency or equipment malfunction, including property manager
signs as applicable.
         (h)   Lighting. Lighting on towers shall not exceed the Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA) minimum standards. All other lighting shall be
subject to the following.
            1.   Any lighting required by the FAA shall be of the minimum
intensity and number of flashes per minute (i.e., the longest duration between
flashes) allowable by the FAA. Dual lighting standards are required and strobe
light standards are prohibited unless required by the FAA.
            2.   Lights shall be oriented so as not to project directly onto
surrounding property or rights-of-way consistent with FAA requirements.
         (i)   Equipment compound. The fenced-in compounds shall not be used
for the storage of any excess equipment or hazardous materials. No outdoor
storage yards shall be allowed in a tower equipment compound. The compound
shall not be used as habitable space.
         (j)   Visibility.
            1.   New towers shall be configured and located in a manner that
shall minimize adverse effects including visual impacts on the landscape and
adjacent properties.
            2.   New freestanding towers shall be designed to match adjacent
structures and landscapes with specific design considerations such as
architectural designs, height, scale, color, and texture.
            3.   A balloon test shall be required subsequent to the receipt of
the photo simulations in order to demonstrate the proposed height of the tower.
The applicant shall arrange to raise a colored balloon no less than three feet
in diameter at the maximum height of the proposed tower, and within 50
horizontal feet of the center of the proposed tower.
            4.   The applicant shall meet the following for the required
balloon test:
               a.   Applicant shall inform the Planning Department and abutting
property owners in writing of the date and times, including alternative date
and times, of the test at least 14 days in advance;
               b.   The date, time, and location, including alternative date,
time and location, of the balloon test shall be advertised in a locally
distributed paper by the applicant at least seven, but no more than 14, days in
advance of the test date;
               c.   The balloon shall be flown for at least four consecutive
hours during daylight hours on the date chosen. The applicant shall record the
weather during the balloon test; and/or
               d.   Re-advertisement will not be required if inclement weather
occurs.
            5.   New antenna mounts shall be flush-mounted, unless it is
demonstrated through RF propagation analysis that flush-mounted antennas will
not meet the network objectives of the desired coverage area.
            6.   Towers shall be constructed to accommodate antenna arrays as
follows:
               a.   All freestanding towers up to 120 feet in height shall be
engineered and constructed to accommodate no less than four antenna arrays;
               b.   All towers between 121 feet and 150 feet shall be
engineered and constructed to accommodate no less than five antenna arrays;
and/or
               c.   All towers between 151 feet and taller shall be engineered
and constructed to accommodate no less than six antenna arrays.
            7.   Grading shall be minimized and limited only to the area
necessary for the new tower and equipment.
            8.   Freestanding non-concealed tower shall be limited to monopole
type towers, unless the applicant demonstrates that such design is not feasible
to accommodate the intended uses.
      (7)   Permit (Level IV) broadcast facilities.
         (a)   Application. All new broadcast towers shall meet the following
requirements:
            1.   Completion of the communications tower permit application;
            2.   Application fee; and
            3.   Site plan.
         (b)   Determination of need. No new broadcast facilities shall be
permitted unless the applicant demonstrates that no existing broadcast tower
can accommodate the applicant’s proposed use.
         (c)   Height. Height for broadcast facilities shall be evaluated on a
case by case basis. The determination of height contained in the applicant’s
FCC Form 351/352 Construction Permit or application for construction permit and
an FAA Determination of No Hazard (FAA Form 7460/2) shall be considered prima
facie evidence of the tower height required for such broadcast facilities.
         (d)   Setbacks. New broadcast facilities and anchors shall be subject
to the setbacks described below:
            1.   Minimum of 500 feet from any single-family dwelling unit on
same lot; and/or
            2.   Minimum of one foot for every one foot of tower height from
all adjacent lots of record.
         (e)   Equipment cabinets. Except for AM broadcast facilities, cabinets
shall not be visible from pedestrian and right-of-way views.
         (f)   Fencing. All broadcast facility towers, AM antenna(s) towers,
and guy anchors shall each be surrounded with an anti-climbing fence compliant
with applicable FCC regulations.
         (g)   Buffer. AM broadcast facilities shall be exempt from the buffer
requirements of this chapter.
         (h)   Signage. Commercial messages shall not be displayed on any
tower. Required noncommercial signage shall be subject to the following.
            1.   The only signage that is permitted upon a tower, equipment
cabinet, or fence shall be informational, and for the purpose of identifying
the tower (such as ASR registration number), as well as the party responsible
for the operation and maintenance of the facility, and any additional security
and/or safety signs as applicable.
            2.   If more than 220 voltage is necessary for the operation of the
facility and is present in a ground grid or in the tower, signs located every
20 feet and attached to the fence or wall shall display in large, bold, high
contrast letters, minimum height of each letter four inches, the following:
“HIGH VOLTAGE - DANGER”.
            3.   Name plate signage shall be provided, in an easily visible
location, including the address and telephone number of the contact to reach in
the event of an emergency or equipment malfunction, including property manager
signs as applicable.
         (i)   Lighting. Lighting on towers shall not exceed the Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA) minimum standards. All other lighting shall be
subject to the following:
            1.   Any lighting required by the FAA shall be of the minimum
intensity and number of flashes per minute (i.e., the longest duration between
flashes) allowable by the FAA. Dual lighting standards are required and strobe
light standards are prohibited unless required by the FAA;
            2.   Lights shall be oriented so as not to project directly onto
surrounding property, consistent with FAA requirements; and/or
            3.   Any security lighting for on-ground facilities and equipment
shall be in compliance with dark sky lighting standards as approved by the
county.
         (j)   Equipment compound. The fenced in compounds shall not be used
for the storage of any excess equipment or hazardous materials. No outdoor
storage yards shall be allowed in a tower equipment compound. The compound
shall not be used as habitable space.
         (k)   Visibility. Grading shall be minimized and limited only to the
area necessary for the new tower and equipment.
      (8)   Application requirements.
         (a)   Requirements for co-location and attachment.
            1.   A signed statement from the tower owner or owner’s agent
agreeing to allow the co-location of other wireless equipment on the proposed
tower, if the structure is designed or capable of additional wireless
equipment.
            2.   Compliance with American National Standards Institute (ANSI)
standards for electromagnetic radiation: in order to protect the public from
excessive exposure to electromagnetic radiation, the facility applicant shall
certify through a written statement that the facility meets or exceeds current
ANSI standards as adopted by the FCC.
            3.   Certification furnished by a registered professional state
engineer that the structure has sufficient structural integrity to support the
proposed antenna and feed lines in addition to all other equipment located or
mounted on the structure.
            4.   One original and two copies of a survey of the property
completed by a professional state engineer showing all existing uses,
structures, and improvements.
            5.   Any applicant for facilities under this section shall certify
that such proposed facility shall comply with all applicable federal
regulations regarding interference protection, including, but not limited to,
federal regulations regarding adjacent channel receiver (blanket) overload and
intermodulation distortion.
            6.   Streamlined process for co-location approvals are subject to
the following.
               a.   A co-location application entitled to streamlined
processing shall be reviewed by the county within 45 days of submission or
within some other mutually agreed upon time frame. Approval or denial of the
application shall be in writing and shall be postmarked to the applicant by the
forty-fifth day from the date of receipt. Denials shall identify the
deficiencies in the application which, if cured, would take the application
complete.
               b.   Upon resubmitting of the revised site plan and paperwork
the county shall follow the process identified in this section until all
deficiencies identified are deemed cured.
               c.   If the county does not respond in writing to the applicant
within the specified time frame detailed above, then the application shall be
deemed approved.
               d.   Application entitled to the streamlined review process
shall not be subject to design or placement requirement, or evidentiary hearing
review.
         (b)   Requirements for mitigation and new Level II and III towers.
            1.   A report and supporting technical data shall be submitted,
demonstrating the following:
               a.   All antenna attachments and co-locations, including all
potentially useable cross country utility distribution towers and other
elevated structures within the proposed service area and alternative antenna
configurations have been examined, and found unacceptable;
               b.   Reasoning as to why existing facilities such as cross
country utility distribution and other elevated structures are not acceptable
alternatives to a new freestanding tower; and/or
               c.   Reasoning as to why the adequacy of alternative existing
facilities or the mitigation of existing facilities are not acceptable in
meeting the applicant’s need or the needs of service providers, indicating that
no existing communications facility could accommodate the applicant’s proposed
facility shall consist of any of the following:
                  i.   No existing towers located within the geographic area
meet the applicant’s engineering requirements, and why;
                  ii.   Existing towers are not of sufficient height to meet
the applicant’s engineering requirements, and cannot be mitigated to increase
in height;
                  iii.   Existing towers do not have sufficient structural
integrity to support the applicant’s proposed wireless communications
facilities and related equipment, and the existing facility cannot be
sufficiently improved; and/or
                  iv.   Other limiting factors that render existing wireless
communications facilities unsuitable.
            2.   Technical data included in the report shall include
certification by a professional state engineer or other qualified professional,
which qualifications shall be included, regarding service gaps or service
expansions that are addressed by the proposed tower, and accompanying maps and
calculations demonstrating the need for the proposed tower;
            3.   Proof that a property and/or tower owner’s agent has
appropriate authorization to act upon the owner’s behalf (if applicable);
            4.   Signed statement from a qualified person, together with their
qualifications, shall be included that warrants radio frequency emissions from
the antenna array(s) comply with FCC standards. The statement shall also
certify that both individually and cumulatively, and with any other facilities
located on or immediately adjacent to the proposed facility, the replacement
antenna complies with FCC standards;
            5.   A stamped or sealed structural analysis of the proposed tower
prepared by a professional state engineer indicating the proposed and future
loading capacity of the tower is compliant with EIA/TIA-222-G (as amended);
            6.   An affidavit by a radio frequency engineer demonstrating
compliance with subsection division (B)(3)(b) above. If a lower ranking
alternative is proposed the affidavit shall address why higher ranked options
are not technically feasible, practical, and/or justified given the location of
the proposed communications facility;
            7.   Statement as to the potential visual and aesthetic impacts of
the proposed tower and equipment on all adjacent residential zoning districts;
            8.   Written statement by a professional state land surveyor or
engineer specifying the design structural failure modes of the proposed
facility;
            9.   Statement certifying that no unusual sound emissions such as
alarms, bells, buzzers, or the like are permitted. Emergency generators are
permitted. Sound levels shall not exceed 70 decibels (70 db);
            10.   A map showing the designated search ring;
            11.   Materials detailing the locations of existing antenna and
tower facilities to which the proposed antenna will be a handoff candidate;
including latitude, longitude, and power levels of the proposed and existing
antenna is required;
            12.   A radio frequency propagation plot indicating the coverage of
existing antenna sites, coverage prediction, and design radius, together with a
certification from the applicant’s radio frequency (RF) engineer that the
proposed facility’s coverage or capacity potential cannot be achieved by any
higher ranked alternative such as a concealed facility, attached facility,
replacement facility, co-location, or new tower;
            13.   These documents are needed to justify a facility and to
determine if the proposed location is the best suitable land use in the
designated geographic area of the proposed facility;
            14.   One original and two copies of a survey of the property
completed by a professional state land surveyor or engineer showing all
existing uses, structures, and improvements;
            15.   Six sets (24 inches by 36 inches) of signed and sealed site
plans shall include the following:
               a.   Name of project and date;
               b.   Deed book, and page and map book and page reference;
               c.   Scale, north arrow, and vicinity map;
               d.   Subject property information including zoning, watershed
classification, percent coverage of lot to be impervious surface (if located in
a designated watershed area);
               e.   Adjacent property information, including land owners, land
uses, height of principal building, size of lots, zoning, and land use
designation;
               f.   Tower elevations;
               g.   Landscape buffering plans;
               h.   Maximum height of the proposed tower and proposed and
future mounting elevations of future antenna, including individual measurement
of the base, the tower, and lightning rod;
               i.   One parking space is required for each tower development
area. The space shall be provided within the leased area, or equipment
compound, or the development area as defined on the site plan;
               j.   Location, classification, and size of all major public or
private streets and rights-of-way;
               k.   Identify adjacent features within 500 feet of property
boundary including driveways, public parking areas, pedestrian ways, trails,
and any other pertinent features; and/or
               l.   Two reduced copies (eight and one-half inches by 11
inches), of the foregoing preliminary grading plans may be included on-site
plans or separately submitted in equal quantities.
            16.   Title report or American Land Title Association (A.L.T.A.)
survey showing all easements on the subject property, together with a full
legal description of the property;
            17.   List of adjacent property owners and keyed to the map. The
list shall be from the most current ownership information supplied by the
county’s Tax Department, together with two sets of mailing labels for such
property owners. Applicant will also provide a notarized certification letter
stating the ownership list referenced herein is accurate to the best of the
applicant’s ability;
            18.   Simulated photographic evidence of the proposed tower and
antenna appearance from any and all residential areas within 1,500 feet and
vantage points approved by the Planning Department including the facility types
the applicant has considered and the impact on adjacent properties including:
               a.   Overall height;
               b.   Configuration;
               c.   Physical location;
               d.   Mass and scale;
               e.   Materials and color;
               f.   Illumination; and/or
               g.   Architectural design.
            19.   All other documentation, evidence, or materials necessary to
demonstrate compliance with the applicable approval criteria set forth in this
chapter;
            20.   A pre-application conference will be required for any new
tower. The applicant shall demonstrate that the following notice was mailed
(via certified mail) to all other wireless service providers licensed to
provide service within the county as indicated on the list of wireless service
providers provided by the county:
 
“Pursuant to the requirements of this Ordinance, applicant is hereby providing you with notice of our
intent to meet with the County Staff in a pre-application conference to discuss the location of a
free-standing wireless communications facility that would be located at _____ (physical address,
latitude and longitude (NAD-83)). In general, we plan to construct a tower of _____ feet in height for
the purpose of providing ______ (type of wireless service) ______. Please inform the County Staff if
you have any desire for placing additional wireless facilities or equipment within two miles of our
proposed tower. Please provide us with this information within twenty business days after the date of
this letter. Your cooperation is sincerely appreciated.
 
                     Sincerely, (pre-application applicant, wireless provider)”
 
            21.   Prior to issuance of a building permit, proof of FAA
compliance with Subpart C of the Federal Aviation Regulations, Part 77, and
“Objects Affecting Navigable Airspace”, if applicable.
         (c)   Requirements for new Level IV towers.
            1.   Technical data included in the report shall include the
purpose of the proposed facility as described in the FCC construction permit
application.
            2.   Proof that a property and/or tower owner’s agent has
appropriate authorization to act upon the owner’s behalf, if applicable.
            3.   Signed statement from a qualified person, together with their
qualifications, shall be included that warrants radio frequency emissions from
the antenna array(s) comply with FCC standards regarding interference to other
radio services. The statement shall also certify that both individually and
cumulatively, and with any other facilities located on or immediately adjacent
to the proposed facility, the replacement antenna complies with FCC standards
regarding human exposure to RF energy.
            4.   A stamped or sealed structural analysis of the proposed tower
prepared by a professional state land surveyor or engineer indicating the
proposed and future loading capacity of the tower is compliant with EIA/TIA-
222-G (as amended).
            5.   A written statement by a professional state land surveyor or
engineer specifying the design structural failure modes of the proposed
facility.
            6.   Statement certifying that no unusual sound emissions such as
alarms, bells, buzzers, or the like are permitted. Emergency generators are
permitted. Sound levels shall not exceed 70 decibels (70 db).
            7.   One original and two copies of a survey of the property
completed by a professional state land surveyor or engineer showing all
existing uses, structures, and improvements.
            8.   Six sets (24 inches by 36 inches) of signed and sealed site
plans shall include the following:
               a.   Name of project and date;
               b.   Deed book, and page and map book and page reference;
               c.   Scale, north arrow, and vicinity map;
               d.   Subject property information including zoning, watershed
classification, percent coverage of lot to be impervious surface (if located in
a designated watershed area);
               e.   Adjacent property information including land owners, land
uses, height of principal building, size of lots, and existing zoning and land
use;
               f.   Landscape buffering plans;
               g.   Maximum height of the proposed tower and/or antenna,
including individual measurements of the base, tower, and lightning rod;
               h.   One parking space is required for each tower development
area. The space shall be provided within the leased area, or equipment
compound, or the development area as defined on the site plan;
               i.   Location, classification, and size of all major public or
private streets and rights-of-way;
               j.   Identify adjacent features within 500 feet of property
boundary including driveways, public parking areas, pedestrian ways, trails,
and any other pertinent features;
               k.   Two reduced copies (eight and one-half inches by 11
inches), of the foregoing preliminary grading plans may be included on-site
plans or separately submitted in equal quantities; and/or
               l.   Structure elevations.
            9.   Title report or American Land Title Association (A.L.T.A.)
survey showing all easements on the subject property, together with a full
legal description of the property.
            10.   List of property owners within 1,000 feet in residential
zoning districts and 500 feet in all other zoning districts and keyed to the
map. The list shall be from the most current ownership information supplied by
the county’s Tax Department, together with two sets of mailing labels for such
property owners. Applicant will also provide a notarized certification letter
stating the ownership list referenced herein is accurate to the best of the
applicant’s ability.
            11.   A pre-application conference will be required for any new
broadcast facility.
            12.   Prior to issuance of a building permit, proof of FAA
compliance with Subpart C of the Federal Aviation Regulations, Part 77, and
“Objects Affecting Navigable Airspace”, if applicable.
   (C)   Firearm certification facilities. All firearms certification
facilities not operating or located on an approved firing range are required to
obtain special use approval from the county’s Board of Adjustment. All
certification facilities that contain a firing range shall adhere to the
following standards:
      (1)   The firearm certification facility’s firing range shall only be
utilized for the purpose of displaying the practical skills necessary to obtain
certification in this area of instruction. The display of practical skills
involving firearms must be conducted in the presence of a certified firearms
instructor;
      (2)   The firing range shall only be occupied by a maximum number of two
students and one certified firearms instructor during the qualifying session of
the certification process;
      (3)   The firing range utilized for qualification purposes shall be
constructed to be in compliance with the following requirements:
         (a)   The range backstop shall be constructed in a manner to contain
projectiles without risk of ricochet or escape; and
         (b)   The range backstop or berm shall be constructed to a minimum
height of ten feet.
      (4)   The firing range shall be located to the rear of any structure
approved for occupancy that is located on the same parcel of property;
      (5)   The length of the range measured from the firing line to the
backstop shall be no greater than 30 feet;
      (6)   The range shall be designed to establish the direction of fire to
be parallel or perpendicular to and away from all public right(s)-of-way;
      (7)   Facilities and structures shall adhere to all federal, state and
local regulations and code requirements; and/or
      (8)   The firing range shall be limited to the discharge of handguns
only.
   (D)   Gunsmithing. Gunsmithing facilities operating in conjunction with and
are located on an approved firing facility shall be deemed as a permitted
accessory use and shall not be required to obtain a special use permit. All
other gunsmithing activities and facilities shall be required to obtain a
special use permit. All non-exempt gunsmithing facilities shall adhere to the
following requirements:
      (1)   Gunsmithing facilities located within a residential structure shall
not engage in the onsite display or sale of firearms.
      (2)   Facilities that will utilize a test fire vault or berm shall
disclose this information on the Board of Adjustment application, site plan and
be approved as part of the special use approval.
      (3)   Gunsmithing facilities shall only utilize a test fire berm for the
purpose of verifying proper working order of an assembled or repaired firearm.
Recreational or any other form of shooting is prohibited on a test fire berm.
      (4)   Facilities located within a residential subdivision shall only
discharge a firearm within an
approved test fire vault. Outdoor test fire berms are prohibited when
gunsmithing facilities are located within a residential subdivision.
      (5)   Outdoor test fire berms shall only be fired upon from a distance
not greater than 25 feet. The direction of fire into the berm shall be away
from all right(s)-of-way and inhabitable structures.
   (E)   Junkyard. The following provisions shall apply to existing and new
junkyards. Wherever the provisions of other sections of this chapter require a
greater requirement (such as buffers, maintenance, setbacks, and the like) the
provisions of such statute shall govern. (The following standards shall be
adhered to no later than November 15, 2005 by all property owners.)
The Following Minimum
Standards Shall Be Adhered New and Expanding Junkyards Nonconforming Junkyards
to:
                                                         New and   Nonconforming
The Following Minimum Standards Shall Be Adhered to:     Expanding Junkyards
                                                         Junkyards
All operations, equipment, junk, and/or inoperable motor
vehicles shall be kept within the buffer at all times    X
unless in motion by transportation to and from the site
Board of Adjustment conditions as set at time of         X
approval
Buffer shall be adjusted in height to meet the required
height requirement and to ensure maximum screening where X         X
the street grade is significantly higher than the
required buffer and during all seasons of the year
Buffering plan shall be submitted in accordance with §  X
153.158
Fences shall be designed to reasonably secure the area   X
from unauthorized entry
Junked motor vehicles and parts storage areas shall be             Opaque fence
screened from view from adjacent property and rights-of- §        or row of
way by the following (all requirements shall be met at   153.158   continuous
time of installation and shall be a minimum six feet in            evergreen
height)                                                            shrubs
Junked motor vehicles or parts shall not be stored in    X         X
the front yard or in the required front yard setback
Junked motor vehicles shall not be stacked higher than   X         X
the screening
Maximum of ten junked vehicles outside of automobile
salvage yard or enclosed building, unless otherwise
specified
Motor vehicles, parts, or other junked materials storage X         X
prohibited in setback
New automotive repair facilities that have junked motor
vehicles and motor vehicles parts storage areas shall be
screened from view from adjacent property and rights-of-
way
Setback for equipment, junk, and/or inoperable motor     50 ft.    10 ft.
vehicles from any adjoining property lot line
Setback from a school, residence, church, or place of
public assembly existing at application approval
(measured from the closest point of the operational area 1,000 ft.
of the automobile salvage yard) (owner of the junkyard
or automobile graveyard shall be exempt)
Setback from rights-of-way of any public or private
street existing at application approval (property line   100 ft.   10 ft.
shall be used if no right-of-way)
The operational area existing at the effective date of
the chapter shall not be expanded, except in conformance X         X
with the provisions of this chapter
Vehicles shall be stored in such a manner that all fire
apparatuses and equipment can ingress and egress all     X         X
areas of the site at all times and be in accordance with
all state and federal regulations
 
   (F)   Manufactured home park.
      (1)   General provisions.
         (a)   Standard requirements.
            1.   Locating manufactured homes.
               a.   Only one manufactured home shall be located on any
manufactured home space at any one time.
               b.   No manufactured home shall be located or moved within the
jurisdiction of the county without obtaining the proper permits required by
local and/or state regulations.
            2.   Address/lot number. Each lot shall clearly display the
approved number with a minimum of four inches in size and shall be composed of
reflective materials of contrasting colors.
            3.   Mailboxes. The owner(s) shall install and maintain mailboxes
in good condition to allow for postal delivery service for each resident, in
accordance with local, state, and federal regulations.
            4.   Solid waste disposal. The park owner(s) will operate or
provide for the operation of a solid waste disposal system, including providing
park tenants with appropriate containers. Individual containers shall be
waterproof and rodent-proof. The method of garbage disposal shall be noted on
the plan and approved by the Board of Adjustment.
         (b)   Manufactured homes. All manufactured homes shall be properly
anchored in accordance with the state regulations for manufactured homes.
Additionally, all manufactured homes shall have the entire perimeter skirted at
all times so as to enclose the space from the bottom of the manufactured home
to grade.
         (c)   Improvements.
            1.   Street(s). Maintenance of all internal streets and
corresponding drainage facilities shall be the responsibility of the owner(s)
of the park. Such streets shall be maintained in a manner to remain free of
potholes, breaks in pavement, rough surfaces, standing water, and associated
problems which would impede or cause hazards to motor vehicles.
            2.   Ground cover. In order to control erosion, all land areas
shall be protected by landscape material and vegetative ground cover.
            3.   Fence or wall. Fences or walls shall not be permitted unless
approved as part of the park plan. This excludes one temporary pet containment
area per manufactured home space. Pet containment areas shall not exceed 120
square feet and shall be made of suitable and durable materials intended for
such use that are installed in a good workmanship manner.
         (d)   Additions and accessory structures.
            1.   Additions. No living compartment or structure other than that
of a prefabricated structure specifically designed for manufactured home use or
extension shall be added to any manufactured home parked within the
jurisdiction of this chapter. This excludes front and rear uncovered porches
and decks not exceeding 100 square feet.
            2.   Accessory building. One accessory building is permitted per
manufactured home lot. Such building shall not exceed 120 square feet in size,
shall be located in the rear yard, and shall be compatible to the principal
dwelling in terms of exterior building material and color. Existing structures
authorized by permit and structurally sound, prior to September 15, 2003 shall
be allowed to remain. Refer to division (E)(2)(a)4. below for additional
requirements.
            3.   Carports. Prefabricated structures without any foundation or
footings and designed so as when the use for which the temporary structure was
erected has ceased, the structure shall be removed in accordance with this
chapter. Refer to §
153.115(F)(2) for additional requirements. Carports shall be properly anchored
and shall be constructed of rigid materials that are compatible to the
principal dwelling in terms of exterior building material and color.
         (e)   Recreational vehicles.
            1.   Park model recreational vehicles.
               a.   Parks with less than 20 spaces will be allowed one park
model lot and parks with 20 or more spaces will be allowed two park model lots.
               b.   These lots are to be used for temporary living quarters for
recreation, camping, travel, and seasonal use. The permit will be valid for one
year and renewable by the Administrator or designee for one-year periods not to
exceed three additional years.
            2.   Recreational vehicles (RVs). The following provisions shall
apply to RVs, except as defined elsewhere in this chapter:
               a.   Park owner(s) shall be responsible for notifying Planning
Department of intention to use park lots for recreational vehicles (RVs):
                  i.   Revised site plan shall be submitted for review and
approval by Development Review Board, as required elsewhere in this chapter,
prior to establishment of use; and/or
                  ii.   In addition to site plan requirements in §
153.064(D), site plan shall indicate park lots to be designated for this use.
               b.   Parks shall be permitted use of lots for RVs as follows:
                  i.   Parks with less than 20 lots shall not have more than
one RV lot; and/or
                  ii.   Parks with 20 or more lots shall not have more than two
RV lots.
               c.   RV lots shall not be established adjacent to right(s)-of-
way;
               d.   No more than one recreational vehicle shall be permitted
per park lot;
               e.   Address and lot number of park lots to be used for RVs
shall be provided in a clearly visible location;
               f.   No additions, porches, decks, or the like shall be
permitted on RV lots;
               g.   No permanent hardwiring, plumbing, skirting, or other
installations of the same nature shall be permitted;
               h.   Nonconforming parks shall comply with division (E)(2)
below, to the greatest extent possible, and shall meet applicable buffer
requirements of this chapter prior to establishment of the use;
               i.   Manufactured home park inspection shall be performed prior
to establishment of the use;
               j.   Park owner(s) shall be responsible for supplying utilities
to park lots used for RVs, including water, electricity, waste collection, and
solid waste removal:
                  i.   Installation and provision for water and sewage disposal
shall be according to the standards of the county’s Department of Public
Utilities and the county’s Health Department; and/or
                  ii.   Each lot designated for RV use shall have an electric
service pole in compliance with the most recently published version of the
National Electrical Code.
               k.   Section 153.045(B)(2) is not applicable.
         (f)   Prohibited uses and structures. No part of the park shall be
used for nonresidential purposes, excluding facilities related to the
maintenance of the park. The following uses and structures shall be prohibited
within manufactured home parks:
            1.   The transfer of a manufactured home space or spaces either by
sale or by any other means within a manufactured home park;
            2.   The storage of abandoned or junk vehicles;
            3.   The storage of uninhabitable manufactured homes;
            4.   Recreational vehicles (RVs) as a permanent residence; and
            5.   Storage of possessions and equipment under the manufactured
home.
      (2)   Standards for new and altered manufactured home parks.
         (a)   Development standards.
            1.   Minimum park size. Every manufactured home park shall have a
minimum area of five contiguous acres.
            2.   Minimum manufactured home lot size.
               a.   Six thousand square feet with both public water and sewer;
               b.   Ten thousand square feet with public water or sewer; and
               c.   Twenty thousand square feet no public water or sewer.
            3.   Maximum density.
               a.   Six units per acre; and
               b.   Refer to §§
153.260 through 153.262 for impervious surface requirements.
            4.   Setbacks.
               a.   The manufactured home and accessory structures shall be
located not less than 25 feet from the park boundary and at least ten feet from
planting or landscape areas.
               b.   Each manufactured home shall be located not less than 30
feet from any other manufactured home.
               c.   Accessory structures shall be located not less than 10 feet
from a manufactured home.
         (b)   Improvement standards.
            1.   Streets and access.
               a.   All streets shall be paved with a minimum pavement width of
18 feet and shall be located within a cleared right-of-way having a minimum
width of 30 feet, except as otherwise required herein.
               b.   Streets connecting two public right(s)-of-way or extending
to adjacent properties shall be built to the minimum construction standards
required by NCDOT, including storm drainage facilities as required by the
latter.
               c.   Cul-de-sac streets shall not exceed 1,000 feet in length.
               d.   All dead-end streets shall be developed as cul-de-sacs.
               e.   All street names shall be approved by the county’s E-911
Addressing Department.
               f.   Each manufactured home space shall abut upon an improved
street which shall have unobstructed access to a public street.
               g.   No manufactured home space shall have direct vehicular
access to any public right-of-way other than those located within the
manufactured home park.
               h.   A letter of certification by a professional state engineer
that the street meets NCDOT standards for the type of facilities installed and
proper storm drainage facilities shall be required.
            2.   Off-street parking pad. Each manufactured home lot shall have
two paved parking spaces with a minimum length of 22 feet and a minimum width
of nine feet per space.
            3.   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be required along one side of all
streets in accordance with §
153.153.
            4.   Lighting. Adequate lighting shall be provided to illuminate
streets, common driveways, walkways, and dead-end streets for the safe movement
of vehicles and pedestrians at night. The minimum size street light shall be a
175 watt Mercury-vapor (approximately 7,000 lumen class) or its equivalent,
spaced at intervals of not more than 300 feet.
            5.   Open space and recreational facilities. 
               a.   Minimum of 8% of the gross area of the manufactured home
park shall be dedicated open space and/or recreational open space facilities.
               b.   One percent of the gross area shall be used for improved
recreational open space facilities.
               c.   No more than one-half of the open space area may be covered
by water.
               d.   Dedicated open space and recreational open space facilities
shall be reasonably accessible from all parts of the park, as determined by the
Planning Board.
            6.   Utilities and storm drainage. Adequate water supply and
distribution system, sewage disposal system, fire protection, and storm
drainage shall be provided for all new and expanded manufactured home parks, in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
         (c)   Additional standards.
            1.   Development in flood hazard areas. Manufactured home parks
shall not be located in areas that are susceptible to regular flooding as
depicted on the most recently published Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA) maps. Existing manufactured home parks located in designated flood
hazard areas shall not be allowed to add additional spaces or manufactured
homes. Manufactured home parks shall be graded so as to prevent water from
ponding or accumulating on the premises.
            2.   Storage areas. Fenced and screened communal storage areas
provided by the park owner(s) for boats, campers, and other accessory vehicles
belonging to park residents only shall be permitted.
      (3)   Maintenance of park and facilities. The park owner(s) and occupants
shall keep all park owned facilities, manufactured homes, manufactured home
spaces, improvements, equipment, open space, recreational open space, and all
common areas in good repair and maintained in such a manner as to prevent the
accumulation or storage of material which would constitute a fire hazard or
would cause insect or rodent breeding and harborage.
      (4)   Termination and reduction in size of manufactured home parks.
         (a)   Termination. Termination of a manufactured home park shall be in
accordance with the parameters set forth in this section. All expenses incurred
shall be the responsibility of the park owner(s). The manufactured home park
termination process shall be as follows.
            1.   Manufactured home park owner(s) shall remove, or cause to be
removed, all manufactured homes and other structures from the park.
            2.   Park owner(s) shall submit a complete application to the
county’s Planning Department.
            3.   Upon receipt of a complete application the Administrator, or
his or her designee, shall perform an inspection of the manufactured home park.
All other required inspections or reviews of other county, local, and state
departments shall be the responsibility of the owner(s) to coordinate.
            4.   Following approvals of all required inspections, the
manufactured home park shall be terminated and all required documentation shall
be filed with the Planning Department.
         (b)   Reduction. Reduction in the size of a manufactured home park
shall meet the requirements of this section. All expenses incurred shall be the
responsibility of the park owner(s).
   (G)   Mining activities.
      (1)   Special use permit. No mining shall be commenced in the county’s
zoning jurisdictions until a special use permit has been approved by the Board
of Adjustment.
      (2)   Special use approval. Special use approval granted by the Board of
Adjustment shall not become effective until a mining permit is issued by the
state’s Department of Environment and Natural Resources, North Carolina
Division of Land Resources (NCDENR), Land Quality Section, or successor agency.
      (3)   Permissible mining zones. Mining may occur in any county zoning
district for which mining is listed as a special use subject to the terms and
conditions of this section and §
153.061(H). In keeping with §
153.061(H), the following guidelines shall be used.
         (a)   The operation will not constitute a substantial physical hazard
to a neighboring dwelling house, school, religious structure, hospital,
commercial or industrial building, public street, or public property.
         (b)   The operation will not have a significantly adverse effect on
the purposes of a publicly-owned park, forest, or recreational open space area.
      (4)   Special use permit expiration. A special use permit shall
automatically expire if at any time after its issuance the state mining permit
is revoked or terminated.
      (5)   Definitions. Definitions as listed in the state general statutes
and the Mining Act of 1971, being G.S. §§ 74-46 et seq., both of the state and
as amended, shall apply to this subsection.
      (6)   Permit application. Applicants for a special use permit shall
submit to the county’s Planning Department two copies of all documents required
by the state for a mining permit application, the reclamation plan, and any
maps and charts accompanying these documents. These documents shall be reviewed
by the county’s Board of Adjustment.
      (7)   Buffer and screening standards.
         (a)   A visual screen shall be established and maintained around that
portion of the mining site that is being excavated or being used for the
storage of minerals. Such screening is required only when such areas are
visible at eye-level at ground elevation, at the time of permit issuance, from
state-maintained right(s)-of-way, publicly-owned areas which have been
maintained essentially in their natural state of vegetation, adjacent
residences, and other buildings, but not including accessory buildings or
properties. The screening shall meet the requirements of the “Type B; Option 2”
buffer as stated in §
153.158(A)(8)(c)3. Only evergreen plantings shall be utilized to meet the
requirements of this section. When excavated areas have been reclaimed in
accordance with the following: the Mining Act of 1971, of the state and as
amended being G.S. §§ 74-46 et seq., and Title 15, Chapter 5 of NCAC titled
Environment and Natural Resources, required artificial screening may be
removed.
         (b)   The visual screening requirements of the previous section may be
exempted when:
            1.   The Planning Department determines that existing vegetative
cover will fulfill these requirements. Such natural screening may consist of
existing vegetative cover including, but not limited to, trees and shrubs, not
less than 50% of which shall be evergreen. Screening may also consist of
earthen berms or other artificial screens used individually or in combination
with each other and existing vegetation to achieve a screening effect required
by this section. Screening materials and vegetation may be located in required
buffer areas. All berms and other artificial screens requiring extensive land
disturbance shall comply with the state general statutes; and/or
            2.   It is determined that due to topographic, or other
circumstances where, through no fault of the permittee, that the requirements
of this section cannot be provided. In such case, an alternative plan shall be
submitted to the Planning Department.
      (8)   Vibration standards. All mining activities in the county shall
conform to the vibration policy adopted by the Land Quality Section of the
North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources (NCDENR).
      (9)   Nonconforming mining operations. Mining operations begun prior to
the adoption of zoning at the location in which the mine is operating shall be
allowed to continue as nonconforming uses after that date. Mining operations
for purposes of this section are defined as those in operation or for which an
application for a mining permit has been made to the state’s Department of
Environment and Natural Resources.
   (H)   Planned unit development.
      (1)   Purpose. 
         (a)   It is recognized that only through ingenuity, imagination, and
high quality design can planned unit developments be produced which are in
keeping with the intent of this chapter while departing from the strict
application of conventional use and dimensional requirements. This is done by
allowing design flexibility and a mix of residential and nonresidential uses,
and/or varying types of both residential and nonresidential uses. Coordination
of such development with adequacy of public facilities while maintaining the
rural and small town character of the county is a necessity in this type of
development.
         (b)   The constructed and natural landmarks, and social and economic
surroundings, are what cause someone to identify with a particular place or
community. Characteristics of a location that make it readily recognizable as
being unique and different from its surroundings, and providing a feeling of
belonging to or being identified with that particular place warrant
consideration when developing a planned unit development.
         (c)   The characteristics of different uses, activities, and/or
designs allow them to both be located in proximity to and in harmony with one
another through compatibility. Elements affecting compatibility include:
height, scale, mass, and bulk of structures; pedestrian and vehicular traffic;
vehicular circulation and access; landscaping; lighting; and mitigation of
noise, odor, and air pollution. Compatibility is not intended to mean
identical; rather, compatibility refers to the sensitivity of development
proposals in maintaining the character of existing development and harmony of
the different uses within the proposal with one another.
         (d)   The intent of the planned unit development regulations of the
county is to provide for minimum, conventional development regulations, while
allowing a developer the flexibility to determine how to attain superior
development through the criteria listed herein.
      (2)   Development criteria. Unless otherwise stated or outlined herein,
all requirements of this chapter shall be met.
         (a)   Minimum development size. No PUD shall be approved for a site of
less than ten contiguous acres under unified ownership or control.
         (b)   Minimum building setbacks. Unless specified and approved as part
of the outline development plan, the minimum setback requirements of this
chapter shall be met. The minimum building setback for all single-family
development shall be five feet.
         (c)   Public utilities. Both public water and public sewer services
shall be available to serve the proposed planned unit development. Capacity of
both services shall be available at the time of approval. The applicant shall
provide proposed water and sewer demands to the county’s Department of Public
Utilities prior to submission of the special use permit application, and in
compliance with the applicable provisions of §
153.155(A).
         (d)   Permissible uses.
            1.   Residential uses allowed within a PUD. 
               a.   Proposed planned unit developments primarily residential in
use shall be allowed as a special use in the underlying residential zoning
district(s) only. Permissible residential uses within a PUD include single-
family detached dwellings, two-family duplexes, townhome dwellings, multifamily
dwellings, and customary residential accessory uses and structures.
               b.   Commercial and other nonresidential uses allowed within a
residential PUD shall be limited to those uses specified in the O&I and
Commercial Zoning Districts.
            2.   Nonresidential uses allowed within a PUD. Proposed planned
unit developments primarily nonresidential in use shall be allowed as a special
use in the underlying nonresidential zoning district(s) only. Residential uses
allowed within a nonresidential PUD shall be limited to those uses specified in
the RA-20M Zoning District.
            3.   Development located within conservation zoning district. Any
portion of a planned unit development located within a conservation zoning
district shall be developed to the standards of this chapter and shall not be
allowed the flexibility of this section.
            4.   Nonresidential development within a PUD. Nonresidential
development within a PUD shall be arranged to:
               a.   Separate pedestrian and vehicular traffic such that
pedestrians can safely walk between businesses within the planned unit
development and from parking areas to businesses; and
               b.   Provide access from adjacent residential development into
nonresidential development areas, whether or not the residential development is
existing or is included as part of the nonresidential PUD.
      (3)   Design guidelines.
         (a)   Minimum dimensional and amenity requirements. This section
describes additional regulations that shall be met for single-family,
multifamily, and nonresidential uses within planned unit developments. The
regulations shall be applied individually by the desired type of use and
density per pod. The developer shall outline which method is intended as part
of the application and shall provide a clear intent to seamlessly integrate
differing requirements.
            1.   Single-family uses.
 
                           Open  Street   Cul-De-Sac Street Curb and
                           Space Pavement Pavement   Trees  Gutter   Sidewalks
                                 Width    Radius
≥ 20,000 sq. ft. minimum 10%   -        -          -      -        -
lots
≥ 18,000 sq. ft. minimum 15%   -        -          -      -        -
lots
≥ 15,000 sq. ft. minimum 20%   -        -          T      T        T
lots
≥ 12,000 sq. ft. minimum 25%   29'      50'        T      T        T
lots
≥ 9,000 sq. ft. minimum  30%   29'      50'        T      T        T
lots
*As required by this chapter.
 
            2.   Multifamily uses.
 
                       Street   Cul-De-         Curb             Rear    Access to      Location
                 Open  Pavement Sac      Street and    Sidewalks Lot     Public         within
                 Space Width    Pavement Trees  Gutter           Parking Transportation EMU or
                                Radius                           Design                 CMU
≥ 9 units per  10%   -        -        -      T      T         -       -              -
acre
≥ 12 units per 20%   -        -        -      T      T         -       -              -
acre
≥ 15 units per 30%   29'      50'      T      T      T         -       -              -
acre
≥ 18 units per 40%   29'      50'      T      T      T         T       T              T
acre
≥ 21 units per 40%   29'      50'      T      T      T         T       T              T
acre
 
            3.   Nonresidential uses. Nonresidential uses shall be incorporated
within a residential planned unit development when located within the land use
plan classifications of medium density residential compact mixed use,
employment mixed use or rural center development nodes. Whether developed as a
portion of a residential PUD or development of a nonresidential PUD,
nonresidential uses shall meet the following criteria.
               a.   In order to facilitate innovative design of nonresidential
areas, there shall be no minimum building setback when located adjacent to
other nonresidential uses. However, the outline development plan shall outline
all the proposed setbacks.
         (b)   Streets and access. The transportation network of all planned
unit developments shall, at a minimum, meet the standard requirements of this
chapter. Further, all streets within a planned unit development shall be
located and designed in accordance with the requirements of NCDOT for the type
of street proposed.
            1.   Access to nonresidential uses within primarily residential
planned unit developments. Primary vehicular access to commercial development
shall not be through intervening local streets.
            2.   Entrances. At least one point of ingress/egress for a planned
unit development shall be located on a minor collector road, at a minimum, as
identified by NCDOT. The number of ingress and egress points needed to safely
move vehicular traffic from the PUD to the adjoining street(s) shall meet the
minimum requirements of this chapter; however, the Board of Adjustment, via
review of the outline development plan, may allow additional entrances, under
the direction of NCDOT. It shall be the applicant’s responsibility to consult
with NCDOT prior to requesting additional entrances.
         (c)   Parking. Parking requirements shall meet the standards of this
chapter. An alternative parking plan may be submitted as part of the outline
development plan. Shared parking is encouraged for uses that typically do not
generate traffic at the same time.
         (d)   Signs. A generalized sign plan shall be submitted as part of the
outline development plan. The plan shall include the design, type, and
illumination source of signs to ensure uniform style throughout the
development. All signs shall conform to the applicable requirements of this
chapter unless otherwise approved.
         (e)   Buffering.
            1.   Perimeter buffering. Planned unit developments shall be
required to provide perimeter buffering in accordance with §
153.158. However, when a use within a PUD is located adjacent to an existing,
compatible use, the Administrator may reduce both the buffer area and number of
plantings required by up to 50%. If the applicant wishes to reduce the buffer
by greater than 50%, the Board of Adjustment shall make that determination.
            2.   Internal buffering. Individual uses within the PUD shall be
required to meet the buffer requirements for the specific use unless an
alternative internal buffering plan is submitted and approved by the Board of
Adjustment as part of outline development plan.
         (f)   Open space. All planned unit developments shall include open
space to optimize use and community interaction within the proposed
development, as well as to maintain and preserve significant natural features.
Each PUD shall include a minimum amount of open space, as required by this
section. Stormwater management measures and other required undeveloped land,
such as BMPs, may be included within this required open space area.
            1.   Required open space.
               a.   Wetlands. Proposals that include any identified wetlands
shall include those areas within the required open space. It is encouraged
that, in cases where more than one area of wetlands exists, connections between
the wetlands are also included within the open space.
               b.   Flood areas. Proposals that include any identified flood
hazard areas are encouraged to include those areas within the required open
space.
               c.   Water features. Other water features that are not
identified as wetlands or flood hazard areas are often overlooked during site
development. However, these features may be just as important to the continued
success of the natural environment and should therefore be considered for
inclusion in required open space.
            2.   Unimproved open space. Unimproved open space includes any type
of open space that is not defined as improved open space by this chapter. All
of the required unimproved open space within a PUD shall be recorded at the
time of recordation of the first phase of development.
            3. Improved open space. A minimum of 10% of the total open space
provided shall include improved open space area(s) in primarily residential
planned unit developments. Specific improved open space uses shall be proposed
by the developer in the outline development plan. Proportionate to its size,
each pod of the PUD shall include an area of improved open space. In no case
shall open space include less area than the smallest lot of the pod in which
the open space is located.
            4.   Access to open space. In cases where improved open space is
located along a right-of-way where improved pedestrian access is not required,
this access shall be provided to connect the open space to the nearest required
pedestrian access.
      (4)   Superior design criteria. 
         (a)   A PUD may modify the requirements set forth in this chapter, if
the applicant demonstrates how the proposed development is superior to that
accomplished through conventional ordinance application. Superior design
criteria exceed the standard development requirements of this chapter. While
there are numerous techniques that may be utilized for each of the criteria
below, it is up to the applicant to determine what is most appropriate for the
proposed PUD.
         (b)   Each of the criteria below shall be met, included, and explained
as part of the required outline development plan. It is the duty of the
applicant to provide that each of these criteria is met. Each criterion shall
be met in order for the Board of Adjustment to consider approval of the
development proposal. The Board of Adjustment shall make a determination that
the outline development plan adequately meets and explains these criteria to
the extent necessary to meet the purpose of this section. Greater detail in
explanation of the superior design provided as part of a proposal shall afford
a more thorough and informed review process by county staff and the Board of
Adjustment.
               1.   Overall development design. Innovative design of the
overall development, which may include access, circulation, privacy, and other
factors to create a unique development that compliments or enhances the
surrounding community.
               2.   Architectural design. In planned unit developments,
architectural design shall take into consideration the intended character of
development as a whole, including seamless transitions between uses. More
specifically, architectural design may include building design, location,
scale, and/or character, provided to avoid abrupt differences between
structures and uses. To determine if superior design has been attained to meet
the requirements of this section, the architectural standard regulations of the
Highway Corridor Overlay Zoning District shall be used as a benchmark.
               3.   Sustainability. The intention of sustainability in
development is to eliminate negative environmental impacts through sensitive
and skillful design. Further, sustainable development is intended to meet
existing human needs while preserving the environment so that the needs of
future generations can be met without an undue economic burden. Maintaining or
enhancing opportunities and community well being, while protecting and
restoring the natural environment upon which people and the natural environment
depend, are primary features of sustainable development. Ways of living more
sustainably can take many forms from reorganizing living conditions and
sustainable architecture, including, but not limited to, gray water systems for
irrigation, pervious parking, and alternative energy.
               4.   Preservation of natural and historic features. Community
use of natural resources shall do so in a way that does not jeopardize the
ability of future generations or the natural environment to live and prosper.
For example, preservation of all areas located within the conservation zoning
district as open space or utilizing naturally low lying areas for utility
easements and walking trails.
               5.   Transportation system. On-site circulation and off-site
traffic consequences shall be addressed as a whole in overall development
design. Circulation for vehicle and pedestrian movement should be provided to
minimize impacts to existing transportation systems. Transportation systems
included as part of a PUD may include traffic calming devices, innovative
intersection design, and other techniques to maintain safe traffic movement
throughout the development.
               6.   Public safety and service availability. Availability of
public services is a major factor in locating developments. For purposes of
this item, public services may include, but is not limited to, the proximity to
fire and emergency medical services, hospitals, law enforcement services,
libraries, and educational facilities.
      (5)   Review and approval procedures. In addition to the procedures
listed herein, applications for planned unit developments shall meet the
requirements of §
153.066.
         (a)   Predevelopment meeting. A predevelopment meeting shall be
scheduled with the Planning Department, and other county departments as
applicable, to review the proposed development plan. The predevelopment meeting
will allow both the developer(s) and county staff to air out potential issues
prior to submittal to the Board of Adjustment. This meeting shall be held
before staff will accept a special use application for the proposed
development.
         (b)   Public outreach. A minimum extent of public outreach shall be
done by the developer(s) prior to, or in conjunction with, application of the
proposed plan in compliance with §
153.067(E)(2).
         (c)   Outline development plan. 
               1.   Each proposed planned unit development shall include an
outline development plan. The purpose of the plan is to describe, in detail,
all elements of design and regulation of the site as a whole. Following the
inclusion of a succinct development summary, the outline development plan shall
include how each of the required conventional regulations are met, including
individual phase descriptions of these regulations where necessary. Finally,
the plan shall outline how superior design guidelines and individual criteria
are met through innovative design, proposed by the developer.
               2.   The outline development plan shall specify development
standards applicable to each use within the planned unit development. If
standards have not been specified for a proposed use in the outline development
plan, any applicable development standards found elsewhere in this chapter
shall be followed. In no case shall proposed development standards fail to meet
the intent of this chapter.
         (d)   Modification(s) of the approved planned unit development (PUD).
Modification(s) of the outline development plan, or any preliminary plat/plan
and associated requirements, may be made by the Planning Board when requested
by the owner(s) and developer(s) after initial approval has been granted by the
Board of Adjustment. Such modifications shall not constitute a substantial
change to the approved special use permit, as determined by the Administrator.
The Board of Adjustment shall review substantial changes to the approved
special use permit, such as an increase in density or introduction of a more
intensive land use than was originally approved, in accordance with this
chapter.
         (e)   Conflicts. Where conflicts occur after approval by the Board of
Adjustment between the approved plan and the requirements of this chapter, or
other local, state, or federal regulations, such conflict shall be resolved by
the Administrator.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 6-18-2012; Res. passed 2-17-2014; Res.
passed 5-18-2015; Res. passed 3-21-2016; Res. passed 7-15-2019; Res. passed 10-
19-2020; Res. passed 11-16-2020)
GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 153.130 GENERAL.
   The regulations set forth in this chapter affect all land, every building,
and every use of land and/or building, and shall apply as follows.
   (A)   New uses or construction. All new construction or use of land shall
conform to the use and dimensional requirements for the district in which it is
to be located.
   (B)   Existing conforming situations. Land or structures, or the use of land
or structures, which then conform to the regulations for the district in which
it is located may be continued, provided that any structural alterations or
change in use shall conform with the regulations herein specified.
   (C)   Existing nonconforming situations. After the date of adoption of
zoning at the location of the nonconformity, pre-existing lots, structures, or
uses which would be prohibited under the regulations for the district in which
it is located shall be considered as nonconforming. Nonconforming situations
may be continued, provided they conform to the provisions in §
153.131.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.131 PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS PER LOT.
   (A)   Principal buildings per lot. Every building hereafter erected, moved
or structurally altered shall be located on a lot. And in no case shall there
be more than one principal building and its customary accessory buildings on a
lot except in the following cases:
      (1)   Multifamily residential developments, including condominiums,
townhomes, planned unit developments, and shopping centers as approved and
permitted in accordance with this chapter;
      (2)   One secondary residence when placed in such a way that both the
secondary and primary residences meet all of the dimensional lot requirements
of the applicable zoning district; and/or
      (3)   As expressly allowed as part of an approved special use permit for
uses provided in the “Table of use types and regulations” found in §
153.105(B), issued by the county’s Board of Adjustment, more than one principal
building may be located on a lot.
   (B)   Required yards not to be used by another building. The minimum yards
or other open spaces required by this chapter for each and every building
hereafter erected, moved, or structurally altered shall not be encroached upon
by or considered as meeting the yard or open space requirements of any other
building.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 6-18-2012; Res. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.132 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   The following regulations shall apply to accessory buildings and/or
structures.
   (A)   No accessory building shall be erected in any required yard or within
five feet of any other building.
   (B)   Accessory buildings not exceeding 600 square feet may be permitted in
the required side and rear yards provided such accessory buildings are at least
five feet from any property line and do not encroach into any required
easements.
   (C)   Accessory buildings not exceeding 50 square feet and used exclusively
to house well and pump equipment may be permitted in the required front, side,
and rear yards, provided such accessory buildings are at least five feet from
any property lines and do not encroach into any required easements or sight
angles.
   (D)   An accessory building may be located on another contiguous or non-
contiguous lot from the principal use with which it is associated, only to the
extent that the principal use itself would also be permitted on such lot.
   (E)   In no case shall a manufactured home, or cargo or trailer portion of a
motor vehicle be used as an accessory structure for storage.
   (F)   Portable storage units for residential purposes:
      (1)   Temporary portable storage units may be located within the required
front yard for no more than 60 days;
      (2)   Portable storage units shall be permitted in rear or side yards
only. Additional portable storage units shall be permitted in the rear or side
yard(s) only and shall not be visible from the public rights-of-way; and/or
      (3)   No more than two accessory structures shall be located on lots of
10,000 square feet or less, and the total square footage of accessory structure
(s) shall not exceed the total square footage of the principal structure.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 10-17-2016)
§ 153.133 ACCESS.
   (A)   Public access to property. No building, structure, or use of land
other than for agricultural purposes shall be established on a lot which does
not abut a street, road, or other public way having a right-of-way meeting
standards of NCDOT or having access via a minimum 30-foot easement or private
street meeting the standards of §
153.151.
   (B)   Curb cuts giving access to public right-of-ways. Construction of curb
cuts for purposes of ingress or egress to property abutting a public right-of-
way shall be approved by NCDOT, where the curbs affect access to state right
(s)-of-way. Provisions for all access work done on state right-of-way are
subject to approval by NCDOT.
   (C)   Corner visibility. In all zoning districts, there shall be no
obstruction to visibility on any corner lot two feet above the level of the
centerline of the street in a triangular area bounded by the street right-of-
way line on such corner lots and a base line joining points along right-of-way
lines 25 feet from the intersection right-of-way corner.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.134 HEIGHT LIMITATION EXCEPTIONS.
   The height limitations of this chapter shall not apply to belfries, spires,
monuments, chimneys, smokestacks, water towers, flagpoles, television and radio
masts, aerials, and similar structures.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.135 ADDRESSING AND NAMING.
   (A)   Authority.
      (1)   Street address numbers assigned by the county’s E-911 Addressing
Department are recognized by the United States Postal Service as mailing
addresses.
      (2)   Street address numbers, subdivision names, and road names on file
with E-911 Addressing shall be the official street address numbers.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. E-911 Addressing shall assign street address numbers in
all areas of the county not within the jurisdiction of a municipality, unless
otherwise requested. The municipalities of Angier, Coats, Erwin, and Lillington
have requested that E-911 Addressing assign all street address numbers within
the jurisdictions.
   (C)   General.
      (1)   Street address numbers will be assigned every 5.28 feet from the
beginning point of each street. The only exception will be existing municipal
streets.
      (2)   The center point of the county shall be the intersection of N.C.
27, N.C. 210, U.S. 401, and U.S. 421 in the Town of Lillington city limits. The
center point shall be the beginning point for major roads such as N.C. 27, N.C.
210, U.S. 401, and U.S. 421. The roads that cross the center point shall be
addressed with respect to direction (east, west, north, and south). For
example, N.C. 27 shall be N.C. 27 W in areas west of Lillington and N.C. 27 E
in areas east of Lillington, and U.S. 421 shall be U.S. 421 N in areas north of
Lillington and U.S. 421 S in areas south of Lillington.
      (3)   For numbering purposes, each road within the county’s jurisdiction
has a standard beginning point which shall be zero. Exception to this
regulation shall be made in cases of municipal streets and/or conflicts with
other counties or postal boundaries.
      (4)   Even street address numbers will be assigned to right side of the
road and odd street address numbers will be assigned to the left side of the
road, as one would stand with their back toward the beginning point.
   (D)   Assignment of address.
      (1)   General address assignments.
         (a)   All structures shall be addressed relative to their position on
a named road. Structures which are facing a named road shall be addressed with
the number which falls closest to the front door of that structure or unit.
         (b)   Structures that are more than 100 feet from a named road shall
be addressed where the driveway intersects the named road.
         (c)   Structures not visible from the named road shall be addressed
where the driveway intersects the named road.
      (2)   Corner lot address assignment. Structures on corner lots shall be
assigned multiple street address numbers. A street number shall be assigned for
each named road that abuts the lot. The permanent street address number will be
determined before the certificate of occupancy is issued using the method
outlined above. Street address numbers that are not used shall be purged from
the system.
      (3)   Multifamily address assignment.
         (a)   One street address number shall be assigned to each multifamily
structure. Each unit within the structure shall be assigned a unit designator,
which shall be a number and shall not include alphabetic characters.
         (b)   Unit designators shall be as follows.
            1.   Lowest floor level unit numbers shall be as follows: 101, 102,
103, and the like;
            2.   Next floor level unit numbers shall be as follows: 201, 202,
203, and the like; and
            3.   Unit designators on all floor levels shall be assigned in the
same manner.
   (E)   Display of address.
      (1)   Display provisions.
         (a)   The owner(s) of any addressable structure shall post the
approved street address number on the structure for the purpose of health,
safety, and general welfare of the citizens of the county. It shall be the
responsibility of the property owner(s) to ensure that the display of the
street address numbers is properly maintained.
         (b)   The height of the street address number displayed on a single-
family dwelling or detached residential structure shall be a minimum of three
inches.
         (c)   The height of the street address number displayed on a
multifamily dwelling or nonresidential structure shall be a minimum of six
inches.
         (d)   Street address numbers shall be of a contrasting color to the
background so that they are clearly visible.
         (e)   The street address number shall be displayed on the structure in
a location clearly visible from the public or private right(s)-of-way or
dedicated access easement day and night.
         (f)   When the structure is not clearly visible or is more than 100
feet from the named road, the street address number shall be displayed at the
driveway that serves the structure. The display shall be perpendicular to the
roadway and shall be clearly visible from both directions of the public or
private right(s)-of-way or dedicated access easement day and night.
         (g)   The street address number shall be displayed on both sides of
the mailbox and on the mailbox door when mail is delivered to the structure by
the United States Postal Service.
         (h)   E-911 Addressing shall have the right to authorize and approve
alternate methods of displaying street address numbers which meet the intent of
this chapter when strict adherence to these standards cannot reasonably be met.
      (2)   Display enforcement.
         (a)   No structure shall receive a certificate of occupancy until a
street address number has been issued by the E-911 Addressing Department and
that street address number is properly displayed as described herein.
         (b)   Property owner(s) or residents of a structure already
constructed shall properly display the street address number as described in
compliance with this chapter.
         (c)   Property that does not comply with the requirements set forth
herein shall be considered a violation of this chapter.
   (F)   Subdivision naming. In no case shall the proposed name for subdivision
duplicate or be phonetically similar to existing subdivisions within the
jurisdiction of the county. Additionally, the use of initials, acronyms,
letters, numbers, and Roman numerals in subdivision names is prohibited.
      (1)   E-911 Addressing shall approve and maintain subdivision names in
all areas of the county not within the jurisdiction of a municipality. As part
of the request to provide street address numbers from the municipalities of
Angier, Coats, Erwin, and Lillington, the county’s E-911 Addressing Department
shall approve and maintain subdivision names within those jurisdictions.
      (2)   A subdivision name change fee shall be determined by the county’s
Board of Commissioners. This is an administration fee for changing the name in
all county systems.
   (G)   Street naming and signs.
      (1)   Street names.
         (a)   E-911 Addressing shall approve and maintain road names in all
areas of the county not within the jurisdiction of a municipality, unless
otherwise requested. As part of the request to provide street address numbers
from the municipalities of Angier, Coats, Erwin, and Lillington, the county’s
E-911 Addressing Department shall approve and maintain road names within the
jurisdictions.
         (b)   Road names shall be named, renamed, and/or approved in
accordance with the road naming guidelines and G.S. § 153A-239.1.
         (c)   Any access, easement, driveway, or pathway, whether public or
private, with three or more addressable structures shall be named.
         (d)   All streets not on an approved, recorded subdivision plat shall
be approved in accordance with this section.
            1.   Streets within the unincorporated areas of the county shall be
presented in a public hearing to the county’s Board of Commissioners for
approval.
            2.   Streets within the municipal areas of the Town of Angier shall
be presented in a public hearing to the Town of Angier Board of Commissioners
for approval.
            3.   Streets within the municipal areas of the Town of Coats shall
be presented in a public hearing to the Town of Coats Board of Commissioners
for approval.
            4.   Streets within the municipal areas of the Town of Erwin shall
be presented in a public hearing to the Town of Erwin Board of Commissioners
for approval.
            5.   Streets within the municipal areas of the Town of Lillington
shall be presented in a public hearing to the Town of Lillington Board of
Commissioners for approval.
      (2)   Street name petition.
         (a)   Street name petition fee shall be determined by the county’s
Board of Commissioners. This is an administration fee for researching and
processing the petition and advertisement of a public hearing, and is therefore
nonrefundable. This fee shall be paid when the subdivision/street name
application is submitted.
         (b)   New street names created shall adhere to the street naming
guidelines and shall be subject to the street name petition fee, unless the
street is being created through the subdivision process.
         (c)   New street names created due to E-911 Addressing mandates shall
be exempt from the street name petition fee.
         (d)   Property owners, developers, or petitioners changing the name of
existing streets shall adhere to the street naming guidelines and shall be
responsible for the street name petition fee.
         (e)   Proposed street name changes shall be agreed to by a minimum of
75% of the property owners directly affected by the change. Each tax parcel
shall have one vote regardless of the number of property owners for that tax
parcel.
         (f)   The county shall not be responsible for any expenses associated
with the street naming or street renaming. Any cost for address changes shall
be the responsibility of the property owner(s) or resident(s).
         (g)   Once a street has been named or renamed, there shall be a five-
year waiting period before a subdivision/street name application can be filed.
If the street name was approved through the subdivision process the five-year
period will begin from the subdivision approval date for that phase, if
applicable. If the street name was approved by the county’s Board of
Commissioners, the five-year period will begin from the county’s Board of
Commissioners approval date.
      (3)   Street signs.
         (a)   All named roads in the county shall be identified by a sign
showing the official name of that road. Signs should be installed according to
the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD) and any other applicable
local, state, and federal regulations.
         (b)   Street name sign fees shall be determined by the county’s Board
of Commissioners. This fee shall cover the material and labor cost to create
and install the sign.
         (c)   Street name signs shall be a standard color, size, and design,
as approved by E-911 Addressing. The sign background color shall be green and
the characters and borders shall be white. A yellow tab indicating “Private
Road” may only be used on streets that are not state maintained and are not
part of any recorded subdivision plat, unless otherwise approved by this
chapter.
         (d)   Property owners, developers, or petitioners creating new streets
or changing the name of existing streets shall be responsible for the street
name sign fee. Street name sign fees shall be paid before a subdivision plat
can be recorded and before any street address numbers are issued.
         (e)   All street name signs in the unincorporated areas of the county
shall be approved, installed, and maintained by E-911 Addressing.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Ord. 2022-03, passed 1-18-2022)
§ 153.136 DEVELOPMENT PHASING AND NUMBERING.
   (A)   Subdivision phasing.
      (1)   General. Subdivisions may be developed by sections or phases. Each
section shall be submitted as a final plat to be recorded in the office of the
Register of Deeds. However, the initial preliminary plat shall show all
sections or phases of the subdivision.
      (2)   Phase site. Each phase or section of development within a major
subdivision shall contain a minimum number of seven lots.
      (3)   Alteration to phasing. Whenever a change is proposed in phase
ordering, the preliminary plat shall be revised and submitted in accordance
with the procedures of this chapter.
   (B)   Phase numbering. Phases shall be identified in consecutive numerical
titles and an easily recognizable order, as identified on approved preliminary
and/or master plan(s). If further divisions are necessary, phase numbering
shall generally follow standard outline format.
   (C)   Lot numbering. Lots shall be numbered in consecutive order, beginning
in the first phase of a subdivision and continuing through each additional
phase. That is, the lot number of a consecutive phase shall follow the final
lot number of the previous phase of a subdivision.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.137 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Public hearing. Before entering into a development agreement, a local
government shall conduct a public hearing on the proposed agreement following
the procedures set forth in G.S. Chapter 160D regarding chapter adoption or
amendment. The notice for the public hearing shall specify the location of the
property subject to the development agreement, the development uses proposed on
the property, and shall specify a place where a copy of the proposed
development agreement can be obtained. In the event that the development
agreement provides that the county shall provide certain public facilities, the
development agreement shall provide that the delivery date of such public
facilities will be tied to successful performance by the developer in
implementing the proposed development (such as meeting defined completion
percentages or other performance standards).
   (B)   Contents of development agreement.
      (1)   A development agreement shall, at a minimum, include all of the
following:
         (a)   A legal description of the property subject to the agreement and
the names of its legal and equitable property owners;
         (b)   The duration of the agreement. However, the parties are not
precluded from entering into subsequent development agreements that may extend
the original duration period;
         (c)   The development uses permitted on the property, including
population densities and building types, intensities, placement on the site,
and design;
         (d)   A description of public facilities that will service the
development, including who provides the facilities, the date any new public
facilities, if needed, will be constructed, and a schedule to assure public
facilities are available concurrent with the impacts of the development;
         (e)   A description, where appropriate, of any reservation or
dedication of land for public purposes and any provisions to protect
environmentally sensitive property;
         (f)   A description of all local development permits approved or
needed to be approved for the development of the property together with a
statement indicating that the failure of the agreement to address a particular
permit, condition, term, or restriction does not relieve the developer of the
necessity of complying with the law governing their permitting requirements,
conditions, terms, or restrictions;
          (g)   A description of any conditions, terms, restrictions, or other
requirements determined to be necessary by the county for the public health,
safety, or welfare of its citizens; and/or
         (h)   A description, where appropriate, of any provisions for the
preservation and restoration of historic structures.
      (2)   A development agreement may provide that the entire development or
any phase of it be commenced or completed within a specified period of time.
The development agreement shall provide a development schedule, including
commencement dates and interim completion dates at no greater than five-year
intervals; provided, however, the failure to meet a commencement or completion
date shall not, in and of itself, constitute a material breach of the
development agreement pursuant to G.S. Chapter 160D but shall be judged based
upon the totality of the circumstances. The development agreement may include
other defined performance standards to be met by the developer. The developer
may request a modification in the dates as set forth in the agreement.
Consideration of a proposed major modification of the agreement shall follow
the same procedures as required for initial approval of a development
agreement.
      (3)   If more than one local government is made party to an agreement,
the agreement shall specify which local government is responsible for the
overall administration of the development agreement.
      (4)   The development agreement also may cover any other matter not
inconsistent with this section.
   (C)   Recordation of agreement. Within 14 days after a local government
enters into a development agreement, the developer shall record the agreement
with the county’s Register of Deeds. The burdens of the development agreement
are binding upon, and the benefits of the agreement shall inure to, all
successors in interest to the parties to the agreement.
   (D)   Periodic review. Periodic review is required to assess compliance with
agreement, material breach by developer, notice of breach, cure of breach, and/
or modification or termination of agreement.
      (1)   Procedures established pursuant to G.S. Chapter 160D shall include
a provision for requiring periodic review by the Administrator or other
appropriate officer of the county at least every 12 months, at which time the
developer shall be required to demonstrate good faith compliance with the terms
of the development agreement.
      (2)   If, as a result of a periodic review, the county finds and
determines that the developer has committed a material breach of the terms or
conditions of the agreement, the county shall serve notice in writing, within a
reasonable time after the periodic review, upon the developer setting forth
with reasonable particularity the nature of the breach and the evidence
supporting the finding and determination, and providing the developer a
reasonable time in which to cure the material breach.
      (3)   If the developer fails to cure the material breach within the time
given, then the county unilaterally may terminate or modify the development
agreement; provided, the notice of termination or modification may be appealed
to the Board of Adjustment.
   (E)   Validity and duration of development agreement. A development
agreement entered into prior to change of jurisdiction, or subsequent
modification or suspension of regulation shall remain valid.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided by this section, any development
agreement entered into by a local government before the effective date of a
change of jurisdiction shall be valid for the duration of the agreement, or
eight years from the effective date of the change in jurisdiction, whichever is
earlier. The parties to the development agreement and the county assuming
jurisdiction have the same rights and obligations with respect to each other
regarding matters addressed in the development agreement as if the property had
remained in the previous jurisdiction.
      (2)   A local government assuming jurisdiction may modify or suspend the
provisions of the development agreement if the county determines that the
failure of the county to do so would place the residents of the territory
subject to the development agreement, or the residents of the county, or both,
in a condition dangerous to their health or safety, or both.
   (F)   Amendment or cancellation of development agreement. A development
agreement may be amended or canceled by mutual consent of the parties to the
agreement or by their successors in interest.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.138 HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION.
   The following shall establish requirements and guidelines for those
developments including a homeowners association (HOA) or any similar entity.
   (A)   A copy of the recorded organizational papers and by-laws shall be
submitted at the final plat review stage to the Development Review Board for
review and approval. Such organizational papers and by-laws shall be applied to
the entire development.
   (B)   The homeowners association shall be established before the homes or
units are sold.
   (C)   Membership shall be mandatory for each buyer, and any successive
buyer.
   (D)   The developer or any subsequent developer shall manage the homeowners
association, which shall be responsible for all maintenance of the development,
until 60% of all units to be sold are sold.
   (E)   The homeowners association shall be managed on a nonprofit basis;
however, nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit the payment of a fair
market management fee to the developer.
   (F)   The developer shall have the right to maintain control of and manage
the homeowners association for the following periods:
      (1)   Until 98% of the total dwelling units planned are conveyed to
residents;
      (2)   For 10 years from the date that the first plat in the development
is recorded plus one year for each 50 units planned in excess of 100 units; or
      (3)   For 50 years from the date that the first plat in the development
is recorded, whichever shall first occur.
   (G)   The developer, or development owner, shall pay all fees levied by the
homeowners association on any improved lot which it owns and for which a final
plat has been recorded in the county’s Register of Deeds, just as any other lot
owner.
   (H)   The homeowners association shall be responsible for liability
insurance, payment of local taxes, and maintenance of recreational open space
and other facilities. Any dues or fees levied by the homeowners association
that remain unpaid, shall become a lien on the individual property. The
homeowners association shall be able to adjust the assessment to meet changing
needs.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.139 SCHOOL BUS STOPS WITHIN RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   All major subdivisions shall install school bus stop facilities and
locations as approved by the county schools. The developer shall provide
appropriate safe and facilitative movement for the bus and pedestrians. This
location shall allow for adequate car parking and/or stacking so as not to
block any existing ingress or egress, or to damage private property. These
requirements shall be implemented at the time of final plat approval for each
phase of the subdivision.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 4-16-2011)
DEVELOPMENT DESIGN GUIDELINES
§ 153.150 GENERAL.
   (A)   General. Any land to be developed that does not meet the requirements
of this chapter shall be prohibited. In reviewing such development, the
reviewing body shall be guided by an analysis of available data on topography,
soils, floodplains, drainage, and ground and surface water. Improvements shall
be installed in accordance with the requirements and standards set forth in
this chapter and other specifications and policies of the county. All
improvements shall be inspected and approved by the Administrator in
conjunction with any other county department, or state or federal agency, as
may be required.
   (B)   Other approvals as necessary. It shall be the responsibility of the
developer(s) to obtain required applications, permits, and other approvals from
local, state, and federal agencies as necessary. Failure to obtain such may
result in delay of development approval.
   (C)   Improvements and projections in right(s)-of-way. No improvements other
than driveways, sidewalks, and landscaping shall be permitted within the limits
of projected right(s)-of-way as specified in the county’s comprehensive
transportation plan. No private signs or other structures shall project beyond
an imaginary line drawn ten feet from and, parallel to, the outer edge of the
public or private right(s)-of-way
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.151 STREET AND TRANSPORTATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Comprehensive transportation plan.
      (1)   Purpose and applicability. The county’s comprehensive
transportation plan (CTP) is an officially adopted plan addressing long range
transportation needs regarding land use and development within the county. It
shall be the responsibility of developer(s) of major subdivisions, minor
subdivisions, and nonresidential sites to comply with the CTP to further the
purpose of the plan.
      (2)   Required improvements. All such development located adjacent to a
corridor that is included in the adopted CTP, or any other officially adopted
Plan, shall comply with the prescribed improvements as indicated within said
Plan.
      (3)   Measurement of land area for future right-of-way. 
         (a)   All such development located adjacent to a corridor identified
by the CTP for future widening shall include building setbacks measured from
the future right(s)-of-way identified, in order to accommodate future street
widening. Existing nonresidential lots of less than one acre in size shall be
exempt from this requirement.
         (b)   Land area necessary for future right(s)-of-way, shall be
determined as identified by NCDOT plans where as available, or otherwise by
applying half of the right(s)-of-way width recommended in the county’s
comprehensive transportation plan (CTP) along each side of the thoroughfare’s
existing edge of right(s)-of-way or centerline alignment, whichever is
applicable.
   (B)   Design standards. The design of all streets and roads within the
jurisdiction of this chapter shall be in accordance with the accepted policies
of NCDOT. The most current edition of NCDOT, Division of Highways’ Subdivision
Roads Minimum Construction Standards shall apply for any subdivision created in
compliance with this chapter. All streets shall have a minimum ten-foot
pavement width per lane, unless otherwise stated by this chapter. When not
outlined in Subdivision Roads Minimum Construction Standards, a minimum 12-foot
pavement width per lane shall be required. The location of utilities and
sidewalks shall be considered in the layout of the street system and selection
of a right-of-way width.
   (C)   Connectivity.
      (1)   Connection to strategic highway corridors. Projects located along
strategic highway corridors, as defined by NCDOT, shall follow this part, in
conjunction with NCDOT regulations. Every effort shall be made to provide
alternative access to a public right-of-way not designated as a strategic
highway corridor, if one is available.
      (2)   Access to adjacent properties. 
         (a)   Where, upon the recommendation of the Development Review Board,
it is desirable to provide for street access to adjoining property, proposed
streets shall be extended, dedicated, and where appropriate, constructed to the
boundary of such property. It is the intention of this section to promote the
orderly development of a local street system that provides interconnection
between developed or developing properties.
         (b)   Connections shall be required where any of the following are
met. Additionally, all stub streets shall be designed and where required to be
built, constructed in accordance with the appropriate standards as delineated
in this chapter:
            1.   Where the zoning and/or land use on the adjoining property are
compatible with the proposed subdivision. For purposes of this section,
compatible land use shall mean any residential to residential land use or
nonresidential to nonresidential land use;
            2.   Where there are no natural or man-made barriers that make the
street extension impractical;
            3.   Where the street extension will result in desirable traffic
flows and patterns and where inappropriate levels of through traffic are
avoided; and/or
            4.   Where the street extension will promote the overall orderly
development of the area.
      (3)   Nonresidential lateral/cross access. All new nonresidential
development, specifically commercial development, shall provide lateral or
cross access to adjacent property which is either existing nonresidential use
or zoned nonresidential, or if the adjacent property is undeveloped. When
located adjacent to residentially zoned and used property, a cross access
easement shall be provided to provide for future connectivity. In the review
process, lateral access shall be displayed and labeled clearly by showing the
appropriate connections.
      Lateral access through interconnected parking lots:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/30f7820eea5cd7ea02f3978cb658a054226f91aa/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1554.png]
   (D)   Curb and gutter. All curb and gutter sections shall be concrete and
meet Division of Highways Standards. In the instance where redevelopment is
taking place of an existing use, such as manufactured home parks or other
similar uses with an existing street system in place that is currently
utilizing asphalt curb and gutter that is built to NCDOT standards, then
asphalt curb and gutter may be allowable upon approval by the Development
Review Board. Further, all new street additions to the development may also be
allowed to continue to use the asphalt curb and gutter in order to make the
development consistent in appearance throughout as long as the total linear
feet of new street additions does not exceed the total linear feet of the
existing street system. All neo-traditional designed lots shall conform to
NCDOT Traditional Neighborhood Development Guidelines.
   (E)   Subdivision street disclosure statement.
      (1)   All streets shown on the final plat shall be designated as public
or private. Designation as public shall be conclusively presumed to be an offer
of dedication to the public. Where streets are dedicated to the public but not
accepted into the state-maintained street system, before lots are sold, a
statement explaining the status of the street shall be included with the final
plat. Designation as private shall be conclusively presumed to be a private
street.
      (2)   Where streets are designated as private, a full disclosure of the
status of the street and maintenance responsibilities is required and these
listed items shall run with the land.
      (3)   Where easements provide required access, they shall meet all
applicable standards. Ingress and Egress easements with more than two lots will
provide a continued maintenance agreement and shall be approved by the Planning
Director or designee and recorded with the county’s Register of Deeds in a
legally valid and binding instrument that describes the method of maintenance,
who will be responsible for maintenance, and the properties which the easement
access way serves. See §
153.154 for further information.
   (F)   Subdivision entrances.
      (1)   Residential subdivisions.
         (a)   All developments of more than 200 residential units or additions
to existing developments that increase the total number of residential units to
200 or more shall provide vehicular access to at least two public streets. In
cases where the property being developed is adjacent to more than one state
road, it is encouraged that the required entrances be located on separate state
roads. The Planning Board, at the developer’s request, may determine that
topography, natural features, or the pattern of the existing adjacent
development makes such provision impractical.
         (b)   A maximum of two entrances per major subdivision are allowed
unless additional entrances are approved by the county’s Planning Board. The
Planning Board may grant additional entrances if it is determined, via
applicant justification, that the additional entrances will increase the public
health, safety, and/or general welfare.
      (2)   Nonresidential subdivisions. Nonresidential subdivision
developments shall not exceed the number of driveways/entrances permitted by
NCDOT.
   (G)   Blocks. Blocks shall be laid out with special attention given to the
type of use contemplated.
      (1)   Block lengths shall not exceed 1,400 feet or be less than 400 feet.
      (2)   Blocks shall have a sufficient width to allow two tiers of lots of
minimum depth. Blocks may consist of single tier lots where such are required
to separate residential development form through vehicular traffic or
nonresidential uses.
   (H)   Type of streets required. All subdivision lots shall abut a street
designated as either public or private. All public or private streets shall be
built to the standards of this chapter and all other applicable standards of
the county and NCDOT.
      (1)   Public streets. Public streets, which are eligible for acceptance
into the state-maintained road system, shall be put on such system. Streets
which are not eligible to be put on the State Highway System, because there are
too few lots or residences, shall be in accordance with the standards in this
chapter, or standards necessary to be put on the State Highway System.
      (2)   Private streets. Private streets shall be specifically allowed
within planned unit developments, condominium, and townhome developments. All
other developments proposing to have private streets and/or gated entrances
shall require Planning Board approval and may be subject to further conditions
regarding safety and/or connectivity. Additionally, all projects are subject to
reasonable and appropriate safety measure deemed necessary by the Development
Review Board under the following conditions.
         (a)   Where private streets are provided in developments with lots or
units for sale, such streets shall be designated as part of areas held in
common and under ownership of a homeowners association with maintenance
provisions.
         (b)   All private streets shall be constructed or improved to NCDOT
standards and certification of construction must be submitted as the final plat
stage by a professional licensed engineer.
         (c)   The recorded plat of any subdivision that includes a private
road shall clearly state that such road is a private road. Further, the initial
purchaser of a newly created lot served by a private street shall be furnished
by the seller with a disclosure statement outlining the maintenance
responsibilities for the road.
         (d)   All private streets shall be constructed within a public utility
easement and shall be recorded as such, for the purpose of service and
maintenance of public utilities with those right(s)-of-way. In any case in
which a developer installs or causes the installation of water, sewer,
electrical power, telephone, or cable television facilities and intends that
such facilities shall be owned, operated, or maintained by a public utility or
any entity the necessary ownership or easement rights to enable the utility or
entity to operate and maintain such facilities must also be provided.
         (e)   1.   All gated private streets shall be approved by the Fire
Code Official prior to construction or installation of any such gates and
related equipment and systems.
            2.   Gates shall be constructed and installed in compliance with
county regulations.
            3.   Adequate distance between the driveway from the state road and
the actual gated entrance shall be allowed for stacking of vehicles.
 
Gate Storage Lengths
Number of Dwelling Units Minimum Storage
< 50                     50 ft.
50 - 100                 75 ft.
> 100                    100 ft.
 
   (I)   Marginal access streets. It is the intent of this regulation, in
accordance with NCDOT, to limit access onto principal arterial streets where
appropriate, in order to maintain the traffic capacity and encourage smooth
traffic flow. Where a tract of land to be subdivided adjoins a principal
arterial street, the subdivider may be required to provide a marginal access
street parallel to the arterial street or reverse frontage on a minor street
for the lots to be developed adjacent to the arterial. Where reverse frontage
is established, private driveways shall be prevented from having direct access
to the principal arterial. Marginal access streets shall be built to the
minimum requirements as stated in division (M)(3) below.
   (J)   Dead-end streets and cul-de-sacs.
      (1)   Dead-end street length and width. 
         (a)   A permanent dead-end street shall not exceed 2,500 feet in
length measured from the centerline of its beginning point on a through street
to the centerline of its end in the center of the turnaround of the cul-de-sac
or the centerline at the end of a temporary turnaround. Stub out streets or
intersecting cul-de-sacs shall not be points of measurement for dead-end
streets.
         (b)   Cul-de-sacs shall have a minimum 35-foot pavement radius and
should not be used to avoid connection with an existing street or to avoid the
extension of an important street, unless exception is granted by the
Development Review Board. The distance from the edge of pavement on the
vehicular turnaround to the right-of-way line shall not be less than the
distance from the edge of pavement to right-of-way line on the street
approaching the turnaround.
      (2)   Temporary turn-arounds. Temporary turn-arounds may be required when
located at the dead-end of a street meant for future connection, stub-streets,
or as required by the Fire Code Official. Streets of less than 150 feet in
length shall not be required to meet the regulations of this section.
         (a)   In cases where a temporary turn-around is permitted to
facilitate future connections or development, the last lots on the proposed
street shall be wide enough to accommodate the temporary turn-around entirely
within the property being developed.
         (b)   Temporary turn-arounds may be removed in cases where additional
public right(s)-of-way is dedicated at the termini of an existing public right
(s)-of-way. In cases where private right(s)-of-way is continued at the termini
of public right(s)-of-way, the required temporary turn-around shall remain in
place.
         (c)   In no case shall any area utilized for temporary turn-arounds be
used for vehicle parking.
         (d)   Temporary bulb, hammerhead, and/or alternative hammerhead turn-
around designs shall be constructed with a minimum of six inches of ABC stone.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/30f7820eea5cd7ea02f3978cb658a054226f91aa/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1556.png]
   (K)   Alleys.
      (1)   Except for neo-traditional designed lots, alleys shall not be
provided in residential subdivisions unless necessitated by unusual
circumstances. Unless otherwise provided herein neo-traditional designed lots
shall have alleys that comply with NCDOT’s Traditional Neighborhood Development
Street Design Guidelines. Maintenance of alleyways will be the responsibility
of the homeowners association, comparable individual, or group that has
responsibility for other common areas. Maintenance of alleyways shall be
addressed in the organizational papers and by-laws of the homeowners
association.
      (2)   The width of an alley shall be at least 20 feet.
      (3)   Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but if
unavoidable, shall be provided with adequate turn-around facilities at the
dead-end as may be approved by the Development Review Board.
      (4)   Sharp changes in alignment and grade shall be avoided.
      (5)   All alleys shall be designed in accordance with NCDOT standards.
   (L)   Half-streets. The dedication of half streets of less than 60 feet at
the perimeter of a new subdivision shall be prohibited. If circumstances render
this impracticable, adequate provision for the concurrent dedication of the
remaining half of the street shall be furnished by the subdivider. Where a
half-street exists in an adjoining subdivision, the remaining half shall be
provided by the proposed subdivision. However, in circumstances where more than
a 60-foot right-of-way is required, a partial width right-of-way, not less than
60 feet in width, may be dedicated when adjoining undeveloped property is owned
or controlled by the subdivider; provided that the width of the partial
dedication is such as to permit the installation of such facilities as may be
necessary to serve abutting lots. When the adjoining property is subdivided,
the remainder of the full required right-of-way shall be dedicated.
   (M)   Minor subdivision streets. Minor subdivision streets shall meet the
requirements of this section, as applicable. See §
153.154 for more information.
      (1)   General requirements.
         (a)   For the purpose of this section, all lots less than or equal to
ten acres in size shall count toward the total number of lots, regardless of
location on the easement. Parcels greater than ten acres in size shall not be
counted toward the number of lots located on an easement.
         (b)   Each lot shall abut the easement, and street when required, for
the entire length of the minimum lot width in the zoning district in which it
is located, or 40 feet when located on the bulb of a cul-de-sac.
         (c)   Construction and installation of street(s) shall be required
from the state-maintained right-of-way to the end of the easement or to the end
of the property involved in the subdivision, whichever is less. In cases where
an existing easement is greater than 2,000 feet in length and street
installation is required, the subdivider(s) may petition to the Planning Board
for relief from this requirement.
         (d)   The street shall remain clear of all obstructions and debris.
         (e)   A maintenance agreement shall be submitted and recorded with the
minor subdivision plat whenever street installation is required.
      (2)   Exemptions from street installation. Minor subdivisions which allow
for less than three lots on any existing easement shall be exempt from the
street construction requirements of this section.
      (3)   Street design standards on existing easements. Minor subdivisions
which allow for three or more lots to be created on any existing easement shall
be required to meet street construction standards which shall be a minimum
width of 20 feet and three inches of aggregate base course (ABC) gravel.
      (4)   Street design standards on new easements. Minor subdivisions which
allow for three or more lots to be created on any new easement shall be
required to meet the following street construction standards.
         (a)   Minor subdivision streets shall meet NCDOT’s Subdivision Roads
Minimum Construction Standards for residential local streets through the
subgrade phase of construction, including drainage improvements, grading, and
typically six inches of ABC gravel. The minimum lane width shall be ten feet.
Certification of compliance with NCDOT requirements shall be made by a
professional state engineer; and/or
         (b)   When existing conditions cannot meet NCDOT requirements, such
conditions shall be certified by a professional state engineer, and the
required gravel depth may be reduced.
   (N)   Nonresidential streets. The subdivider of a nonresidential subdivision
shall provide streets in accordance with the standards of NCDOT and the
standards in this chapter, whichever are stricter in regard to each particular
item.
(Res. passed 4-16-2011; Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 2-17-2014; Res.
passed 5-18-2015; Res. passed 3-16-2020)
§ 153.152 PARKING AND OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Off-street parking requirements. There shall be provided at the time
of the erection of any building, or at the time any principal building is
enlarged or increased in capacity by adding dwelling units, guests rooms,
seats, or floor area; or before conversion from one type of use or occupancy to
another, permanent off-street parking space in the amount specified by this
section, together with adequate driveway and maneuvering space. Such parking
space may be provided in a parking garage or properly graded open space.
      (1)   Certification of minimum parking requirements. Each application for
a land use and zoning permit to the Administrator as provided for in this
chapter shall include information as to the location and dimensions of off-
street parking and loading space and the means of ingress and egress to such
space. This information shall be of sufficient detail to enable the
Administrator to determine whether or not the requirements of this section are
met.
      (2)   Combination of required parking spaces. The required parking space
for any number of separate uses may be combined in one lot, but the required
space assigned to one use may not be assigned to another use, except that one-
half of the parking space required for churches, theaters, or assembly halls
whose peak attendance will be at night or on Saturdays and Sundays may be
assigned to a use which will be closed at night and on Sundays. In cases where
shared parking is permitted, adequate pedestrian access shall be provided to
all uses.
      (3)   Remote parking spaces. If the off-street parking space required by
this chapter cannot be reasonably provided on the same lot on which the
principal use is located, such space may be provided on any land within
reasonable walking distance of the main entrance to such principal use,
provided such land is in the same ownership as the principal use.
      (4)   Lighting. Access ways, walkways, and parking areas shall be lighted
adequately by lighting fixtures which shall be so installed as to protect the
street and neighboring properties from direct glare or hazardous interference
of any kind and in compliance with §
153.156.
      (5)   Safety barriers. Curbs, walls, fences, wheel stops, or similar
devices shall be located within spaces along the perimeter of parking lots,
garages, and storage areas, except at entrances and exits indicated on approved
parking plans. Such barriers shall be so designed and located as to prevent
parked vehicles from extending beyond property lines of parking lots and
garages and to protect public right(s)-of-way and adjoining properties from
damaging effects of surface drainage. Such barriers shall be approved for the
same use. In cases where a sidewalk is used as the safety barrier, the width of
the raised sidewalk shall be increased by 18 inches.
      (6)   Parking areas adjacent to public alleys. Where off-street parking
facilities are located adjacent to a public alley, the width of such alley may
be counted as a portion of the required maneuvering and access area, but not as
part of the parking spaces required.
      (7)   Improvements, design, and location standards. All off-street
parking, including exits, entrances, and maneuvering and parking areas shall:
         (a)   Have access to a publicly dedicated street or alley;
         (b)   Be designed so that vehicles cannot overhang property lines,
public right(s)-of-way, or public sidewalks, or tend to bump against or damage
any wall, vegetation, or other obstruction;
         (c)   Be permanently maintained by the owner(s);
         (d)   Be set back from the existing or future public right(s)-of-way,
private right(s)-of-way, and property zoned residentially a minimum of ten
feet;
         (e)   Drive aisle, lane width, and parking stall dimensions:
            1.   Drive aisle and lane width dimensions.
 
Minimum Access Drives Aisles and Lane Width
Parking angle   0 degrees 30 degrees 45 degrees 60 degrees 90 degrees
One-way traffic 14 ft.    14 ft.     14 ft.     18 ft.     24 ft.
Two-way traffic 20 ft.    20 ft.     21 ft.     23 ft.     24 ft.
 
            2.   Parking stall dimensions. Minimum dimensions for parking stall
is 18 feet in length by nine feet in width. Handicapped parking stalls shall
meet the requirements of ANSI 117.
         (f)   Parking areas for shopping centers, or for community or regional
site plans, shall provide designated crosswalks for pedestrian access and
internal sidewalks within parking medians, as appropriate, to ensure connection
between parking areas and the facility for which the parking is provided.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/30f7820eea5cd7ea02f3978cb658a054226f91aa/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1558.png]
      (8)   Parking surface areas.
         (a)   All parking surface areas that contain one of the following
scenarios shall be graded and surfaced with asphalt and/or concrete, unless
stated otherwise within this chapter. In designated watershed areas,
alternative pervious or porous materials may be utilized, as approved by the
Administrator:
            1.   Access drives with lanes for drive-in windows;
            2.   Fifteen or more parking spaces; or
            3.   That are used at least five days per week.
         (b)   Parking surface areas not permanently surfaced shall be graded
and surfaced with crushed stone, gravel, or other suitable material with a
minimum of six inches and shall be maintained in a dust-free condition.
         (c)   Parking area shall be properly maintained in good condition
(free of potholes, and the like) and parking space lines and or markings shall
be kept clearly visible and distinct.
         (d)   As required elsewhere by this chapter, curb and gutter shall be
installed in accordance with §
153.151(D).
      (9)   Minimum parking requirements. Minimum parking requirements are
listed within the “Table of use types and regulations” found in §
153.105(B).
         (a)   The number of parking spaces shall not exceed 110% of the
minimum number of spaces required for the approved land use, except for
residentially classified uses. Pervious pavers, with installation certified by
a geotechnical engineer, utilized for parking spaces shall not be counted
toward the total number of allowable parking spaces.
         (b)   The number of parking spaces to be required in special
situations in which none of the above conditions are applicable shall be
determined by the Board of Adjustment.
         (c)   University and college uses and ancillary uses typically
associated with a university or college that are customary and subordinate may
demonstrate the use and activity is being served with parking facilities
located on campus or by remote parking.
   (B)   Off-street loading requirements.
      (1)   All uses and establishments commenced hereafter shall provide off-
street loading spaces sufficient to allow all loading and unloading of vehicles
to take place entirely within the property lines of the premises.
      (2)   The off-street loading space provided as required by this section
shall be permanent space and shall not be used for any other purpose.
      (3)   A loading space requirement may be waived by the Board of
Adjustment on application due to a limited need for loading space based on the
nature of the building.
      (4)   Loading berths shall be designed, along with the means of egress
and ingress to such berths, so as not to interfere with the free, normal
movement of vehicles and pedestrians on public right(s)-of-way and shall have
the following dimensions:
         (a)   Minimum width of 12 feet;
         (b)   Minimum length of 55 feet; and
         (c)   Minimum height clearance of 15 feet.
      (5)   The minimum number of off-street loading berths to be provided by
individual establishments shall be according to the following schedule:
         (a)   Retail and service establishments. One berth for every 20,000
square feet of gross floor area; or portion thereof, however, two or more
adjoining establishments with a total gross floor area of less than specified
herein shall be considered as one establishment provision;
         (b)   Office buildings, hotels, and other institutional uses. One
berth for every 50,000 square feet of gross floor area or portion thereof; or
         (c)   Industrial and wholesale establishments. One berth for every
10,000 square feet of gross floor area, or portion thereof, up to 30,000 square
feet; one space for every 30,000 square feet of gross floor area, or portion
thereof in excess of the first 30,000 square feet of gross floor area.
   (C)   Landscape requirements in parking area.
      (1)   Perimeter screening. The entire length of parking and vehicle
circulation areas located along the public or private right(s)-of-way shall be
screened using one of the following options.
         (a)   Berm. Berm, meeting the requirements of §
153.158(A)(3); or
         (b)   Evergreen vegetation.
            1.   Maintained at a minimum height of three feet;
            2.   Minimum planting size is 18 inches in height;
            3.   Spaced so that a continuous vegetative screen is establish
within two years; and
            4.   A minimum of three feet shall be maintained between the
vegetation and curb or wheel stop.
      (2)   Parking facilities with 30 or more spaces. Facilities with 30 or
more spaces, unless located on or within a structure, shall be separated from
the building and pedestrian walkways by a landscape strip or permanent planter
boxes at least five feet in width and meeting the following requirements.
         (a)   The sum length of this landscape strip shall equal at least 50%
of the length of that side of the building or walkway.
         (b)   When parking abuts the landscape strip, the width shall be
expanded to six feet.
         (c)   Plantings shall be installed in accordance with the Type C
buffer requirements found in §
153.158(A)(8)(d).
         (d)   Service and loading areas are exempt from these requirements.
      (3)   Vehicle use area planting.
         (a)   All parking spaces shall be within 50 feet of a tree trunk.
         (b)   Medians and/or islands planted with trees shall be at least ten
feet wide with a minimum of 300 square feet of permeable soil.
         (c)   Tree shall be a minimum of two inches in caliper at planting.
         (d)   Trees planted in compliance with these requirements shall have
demonstrated particular resistance to harsh growing conditions, diseases, and
insects in this particular region.
      (4)   Maintenance.
         (a)   The owner(s) of the property shall be responsible for the
installation, preservation, and maintenance of all plantings as required under
this section.
         (b)   Any dead, unhealthy, or missing vegetation, or vegetation
disfigured by severe pruning, shall be replaced in accordance with the
standards of this section.
   (D)   Parking plan alternative. In lieu of compliance with the parking
landscaping requirements of this section, an applicant may submit to the
Planning Board for review and approval a detailed plan and specifications for
parking. The Planning Board may approve the alternative parking landscaping
plan upon finding that the proposal will meet or exceed the intent of this
chapter. Applications for parking landscaping plan alternative approval may be
submitted when unreasonable or impractical situations would result from the
strict application of this section. The following criteria shall be used in
determining whether a parking landscaping plan alternative can be accepted by
the Planning Board in lieu of meeting the requirements of this section:
         (1)   The proposal includes a clear and concise explanation of the
specific standards that cannot be met and how the alternative methods proposed
will achieve the intent of this section;
         (2)   The proposal represents the use of alternative methods and/or
materials which will result in a development pattern which is equivalent to or
greater than that required by this chapter;
         (3)   The proposed use and design alternative is compatible with
adjacent land uses;
         (4)   The proposal is compatible with and will enhance the use or
value of adjacent and area properties;
         (5)   The proposal is consistent with the intent of adopted county
plans; and
         (6)   The proposed development standards are, in all other aspects,
consistent with the intent and purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.153 SIDEWALK STANDARDS.
   (A)   Sidewalks shall be installed in accordance with the compatibility
development concept, as required by use regulations for specific uses, in
nonresidential development located within the employment mixed use and compact
mixed use classifications identified by the county’s land use plan, or as
otherwise stated herein.
   (B)   Sidewalks required by this chapter shall be designed and constructed
in accordance with the following standards.
      (1)   The sidewalk shall be constructed of concrete material;
      (2)   The developer shall bear the costs of the installation of the
sidewalks required for all new or existing streets with specifications of the
county. In lieu of requiring the installation prior to approval the developer
may enter into an agreement with the county in accordance with §
153.164;
      (3)   Shoulders shall be sufficient to permit the adequate installation
and maintenance of sidewalks and utilities, as well as provide sufficient clear
zone, as defined by NCDOT, for safe use by errant vehicles;
      (4)   The minimum thickness of a sidewalk shall be four inches and six
inches at driveways; and with a minimum width of five feet. Sidewalks shall
have a uniform slope toward the roadway of one-fourth inch per foot. The
utility strip between the sidewalk and the back of curb shall not be less than
one-fourth inch per foot nor greater than one-half inch per foot toward the
roadway;
      (5)   Where sidewalks and/or greenways intersect any section of curb and
gutter, a wheelchair ramp shall be installed. In all other instances, the
regulations of the Americans with Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et
seq. shall be adhered to;
      (6)   Grooved construction joints shall be cut to a depth equal to at
least one-third of the total slab thickness. The joint shall be no less than
one-eighth inch in width and cut at intervals equal to the width of the
sidewalk. A one-half inch expansion joint filled with joint filler shall be
placed between all rigid objects and placed no farther than 50 feet apart for
sidewalks and curb and gutter, extending the full depth of the concrete with
top of the filler one-half inch below the finished surface;
      (7)   Maintenance of sidewalks will be the responsibility of the
homeowners association or comparable individual or group that has
responsibility for other common areas. Maintenance of sidewalks shall be
addressed in the organizational papers and by-laws;
      (8)   Sidewalks shall be located within the dedicated, non-paved portion
of the street right-of-way as follows unless otherwise noted:
Street Classification Location Minimum Width Minimum Distance off Back of Curb
Street Classification Location             Minimum Width Minimum Distance off
                                                         Back of Curb
All streets in any
neo-traditional       Both sides of street 5 feet        3.5 feet
development
Collector, local, or
cul-de-sac streets in
any nonresidential or Both sides of street 5 feet        3.5 feet
multifamily
development
Collector street in
any residential       One side of street   4 feet        3.5 feet
development
Local street or cul-
de-sac street in any  One side of street   4 feet        3.5 feet
residential
development
Major thoroughfare    Both sides of street 5 feet        6.5 feet
Minor thoroughfare    Both sides of street 5 feet        5.5 feet
Private right-of-way  Same standard as above for comparable public right-of-
                      way.
 
      (9)   Sidewalks to be located within watershed, flood areas, or
designated wetlands may be substituted with pervious greenways, such as
pervious pavers, as approved by the Administrator or Development Review Board
upon site plan review. In no case shall sidewalks required by the comprehensive
transportation plan be substituted with pervious greenways.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 3-21-2016)
§ 153.154 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   General easement requirements.
      (1)   No permanent structure shall be located within any easement.
Driveways, sidewalks, and other similar means of ingress and egress shall be
permitted to perpendicularly cross any easement where necessary for access.
      (2)   Any lot area contained within an easement shall not be utilized to
achieve the minimum square footage required for the lot.
      (3)   Unless justification can be made by the applicant as to why it is
not feasible, all easements shall follow property lines.
      (4)   All easements identified and/or proposed on a plat/plan shall be
referenced in the Deed of Record for the subject property.
      (5)   The county’s Development Review Board may require easements of
widths deemed adequate for the intended purpose where necessary or advisable
for water, electric power, conduits, storm and sanitary sewers, street trees,
and gas, water, and other utilities. Specifically, all public utilities shall
be included within easements, in accordance with the development of water and
sewer utilities in the county’s Water and Sewer Districts.
   (B)   Minor subdivision easements. Access easements provided for minor
subdivisions shall be identified for ingress/egress and utility purposes and
shall meet the following requirements. Additionally, streets required as part
of a minor subdivision shall meet the requirements of §
153.151(M).
      (1)   Easements for minor subdivisions shall be created only off of a
state-maintained road and shall be a minimum of 50 feet in width, unless
otherwise stated.
         (a)   Where an existing easement is utilized and intersects with two
or more properties under separate ownership, the easement shall be a minimum of
30 feet in width. In such cases, the subdivider shall provide that the easement
be 50 feet in width for the entire length of any property on the easement and
under the ownership of the subdivider.
         (b)   Easements not legally binding or less than 30 feet in width
shall not meet the purpose of this section unless specifically included as part
of a court order.
      (2)   The maximum length of an easement shall be 2,000 feet.
      (3)   Each lot shall abut the easement, and street when required, for the
entire length of the minimum lot width in the zoning district in which it is
located, or 40 feet when located on the bulb of a cul-de-sac.
      (4)   Easements required as part of a subdivision for access to proposed
lots shall be kept clear of obstructions and debris.
      (5)   In no case shall an easement be created off of an existing easement
when proposed as part of a subdivision, with the exception of easements for
utility purposes only.
   (C)   Drainage easements.
      (1)   Drainage easements shall be required for any development that
involves more than one lot including residential and nonresidential
development. All drainage easements shall be designed to tie into existing
easements, existing watercourses, or to other appropriate locations when
possible. Maintenance of easements is the responsibility of the facility owner
or homeowners association. Drainage easements shall be provided for the
following conveyance structures outside of NCDOT right(s)-of-way:
         (a)   All culverts;
         (b)   All new or existing open channels on or near the site perimeter
or development;
         (c)   All new or existing storm drainage pipes and points of
concentrated flow;
         (d)   All attenuation facilities, including berms, primary and
emergency spillways, and the like; and
         (e)   Other locations deemed appropriate by the Development Review
Board.
      (2)   The following minimum easement widths shall be provided.
         (a)   Culverts.
            1.   For culverts less than 72 inches diameter, the minimum
easement width shall be 20 feet;
            2.   For culverts greater than 72 inches diameter, the minimum
easement width shall be the diameter of the culvert plus 20 feet; or
            3.   For multiple culverts, the minimum easement width shall be
total width of the pipes measured from edge to edge plus 20 feet.
         (b)   Open channels.
 
Contributing Drainage Area Minimum Easement Width
< 10 acres                 20 ft.
10 acres to 25 acres       50 ft.
25 acres to 100 acres      50 ft.
> 100 acres                The floodway width or 50 ft., whichever is greater.
 
         (c)   BMPs and stormwater ponds. Easement shall be in accordance with
North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources, Division of
Water Quality Stormwater Best Management Practices Manual.
   (D)   Maintenance easements. A maintenance easement shall be required on all
lots of 9,000 square feet or less, or lots with a five-foot building setback.
The maintenance easement shall be provided along the side property lines for
the purposes of future building maintenance and upkeep of both the structure
on-site and adjacent structure(s).
   (E)   Cross-access easements. When required by this chapter, cross-access
easements shall be included as part of a development plan. Such easements shall
be properly identified on the required plat/plan, including details regarding
maintenance, when required.
   (F)   Off-site septic easements. In cases where suitable soils are not
available for the establishment of on-site septic system and repair area, off-
site septic easements shall be permitted according to the following
requirements.
      (1)   General off-site septic usage requirements.
         (a)   Prior to approval of an off-site septic easement, applicants
shall attempt to adjust lot lines or recombine parcels to acquire adequate,
suitable soils for an on-site septic system.
         (b)   All septic systems, septic lines, and repair areas shall be
designed by a professional engineer or licensed soil scientist, both of which
shall be licensed in the state.
         (c)   Any lots for which an off-site septic system is either used or
located shall be identified on the Deed of Record.
      (2)   Major subdivisions.
         (a)   Individual off-site septic systems shall be limited based upon
the number of lots on the approved preliminary subdivision plat. No more than
10% of the total lots shall utilize off-site septic systems. In cases where the
number of lots changes, the number of allowable off-site septic systems shall
be adjusted accordingly.
         (b)   Off-site septic easements shall be contained only within common,
unimproved open space of the subdivision.
         (c)   Such common open spaces areas shall have a minimum of one access
easement to allow for utilization by all owners of property within the
subdivision. Access easements shall be a minimum of 12 feet in width and shall
include an identification sign.
         (d)   All off-site septic easements shall be separate and distinct
from one another and shall be of sufficient size to accommodate the total area
required by the county’s Department of Public Health, plus any additional area
necessary to allow vehicular movement for repair or expansion purposes in case
of future system failure.
         (e)   All supply line systems shall be installed by a professional
licensed to do the work and shall be inspected and approved the county’s
Department of Public Health prior to approval and recordation of the final
subdivision plat.
         (f)   A declaration of covenants and/or homeowners association by-laws
shall state the following:
            1.   All benefits and burdens of the covenants and restrictions
shall be binding upon the successive owners of each parcel;
            2.   Those lots burdened by access easements shall be explicitly
identified; and
            3.   Homeowners association shall conduct a program of regular
septic easement monitoring and site maintenance. The program shall be published
and recorded in the county’s Register of Deeds including a reference of the map
book and page of the final subdivision plat map. The homeowner of each
respective off-site septic easement shall be responsible for system maintenance
and repair.
      (3)   Minor subdivisions. No minor subdivision shall utilize off-site
septic easements.
      (4)   Existing lots. Regulations regarding location of off-site septic
systems and easements within common open space areas shall not apply to septic
system failures on existing lots.
         (a)   Any failure shall be determined by the county’s Department of
Public Health or other appropriate local, state, or federal agency.
         (b)   Applicant shall attempt to locate off-site septic systems on a
lot immediately adjacent to the lot on which the failure occurred. Lots
separated by right(s)-of-way shall not be considered immediately adjacent for
the purpose of this section.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.155 CONNECTION TO UTILITY SERVICES.
   (A)   General provisions for water and sewer. Installation and provision for
water supply and sewage disposal shall be according to the standards of the
county’s Department of Public Utilities comprehensive water and sewer plans and
the county’s Health Department. When utilities are installed as part of a
private development for public use, including, but not limited to, planned unit
developments, a public access easement shall be provided to such utilities from
the public right(s)-of-way. In addition, all utilities to be dedicated for
public use shall be included within an easement for the purpose of maintenance
and upkeep.
      (1)   Phased construction. When a development is to be developed in
phases, the sewage disposal system and/or water distribution system required
hereunder may be constructed in steps simultaneous with the development of each
phase of the subdivision. A master sketch plan for such development shall be
submitted to the county’s Department of Public Utilities or other appropriate
agency in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. In such cases, the
master sketch plan shall be included with the preliminary plat at the time of
such submittal. In no case shall the master sketch plan constitute vested
rights for development of the site unless it meets the provisions of this
chapter for a major subdivision preliminary plat.
      (2)   Conceptual plan. A conceptual plan may be required for the purposes
of review of proposed developments by county staff to provide information on
requirements for connection to utility services and compliance with Fire Code
requirements, as well as any potential off-site and oversize improvements that
may be required for conformance with the county’s sewer master plan or the
county’s Fire Code.
         (a)   Prior to submission of a conceptual plan, the developer shall
consult with the Department of Public Utilities, County Engineer, and Fire Code
Official to determine if an initial conference will be necessary. If the scope
of the proposed development, in the opinion of the Public Utilities Director,
County Engineer, or Fire Marshal, is such that an initial conference will be
beneficial prior to the development of plans and specifications, the developer
or his or her engineer shall present, at the time of this conference,
conceptual schematic or layout of the proposed extensions and the estimated
water and wastewater demands resulting from the proposed development.
         (b)   A preliminary subdivision plat, both residential and
nonresidential, or site plan, except for minor site plans as defined by this
chapter, shall include a conceptual plan. When required by this chapter, a
stormwater management plan shall be submitted as part of the conceptual plan.
Stormwater management plans shall be submitted in conjunction with §§
153.220 through 153.230.
         (c)   The conceptual plan shall provide all information necessary to
determine the probable effect of the proposed development on the county’s
existing facilities. The plan shall include the nature of water usage
(domestic, commercial, and the like), the probable character of the wastewater
generated, a description of any proposed private water distribution and sewer
collection systems, and a preliminary hydraulic analysis.
         (d)   The Public Utilities Department will advise the developer(s) or
his or her engineer(s) of applicable county water and sewer policies and
ordinances, including all applicable fees and assessments.
         (e)   The conceptual plan shall include the following information and
any other information deemed necessary by the Department of Public Utilities,
County Engineer, or Fire Code Official to enable them to make a determination
of the acceptability of the proposed plans. All information shall be submitted
in a package and not in a piecemeal manner.
            1.   Conceptual plans. Submit three copies of conceptual
subdivision plans or site plans at a scale of one inch equals 200 feet (or
larger scale) showing:
               a.   The proposed layout of the water and sewer extensions;
               b.   All proposed pipelines and sizes, manholes, valves, fire
hydrants, and pump stations;
               c.   Nearest existing water and sewer facilities to which the
proposed new extensions will connect;
               d.   All proposed easements shall be shown; and
               e.   Where extension of utility is anticipated, provide sketch
of extension and projected inverts with service area for sanitary sewer.
            2.   Design. All design shall include, at a minimum, the following:
               a.   Preliminary engineering design calculations used to
determine estimated average and peak water and wastewater demands;
               b.   Calculations used to size lines, pump station(s), and for
fire protection, including expected initial and future populations to be
served;
               c.   The nature of the water usage (domestic, commercial, and
the like), and the probable character of the wastewater generated; and
               d.   A hydraulic analysis, demonstrating the adequacy of the
system to meet domestic and fire flows for water, and the adequacy of
downstream sewer capacity.
            3.   Estimated time schedules. An estimated time schedule shall be
submitted, identifying the expected dates of completion of the final plans and
specifications, and expected beginning and completion dates of construction for
phases, as applicable.
            4.   Stormwater management statement. A stormwater management
statement shall be submitted, when required by this chapter, in accordance with
§§
153.220 through
153.230.
   (B)   Water supply system. To further the intent of this section, as well as
orderly development of utilities, the county’s Department of Public Utilities
may require a larger water supply line than is typically required to ensure
capacity for future development.
      (1)   Connection.
         (a)   Connection requirement.
            1.   Any development which is created after the adoption of this
section, and is located within that number of feet of an existing county owned
or operated water supply and distribution system as is specified in division
(B)(1)(b) below, whether the development is located within or without the
service area of an existing county owned or operated public water supply and
distribution system, the developer shall cause a water distribution system,
meeting the standards herein specified, to be constructed and installed in such
development and shall further cause the water distribution system to be
connected to the existing county owned or operated public water supply and
distribution system which is located as specified in division (B)(1)(b) below.
This requirement also applies to new phases of existing development where these
phases have not been previously approved by the appropriate County Development
Review Board.
            2.   The developer may establish and create a public water supply
system or connect the development to an existing public water supply system.
However, such created public water supply system or such water distribution
system to be connected to an existing system shall be approved by and meet the
requirements of all federal, state, and local governments, including, but not
limited to, the DENR.
         (b)   Distance specification. A development shall be required to meet
the conditions of this section when the development is located within that
number of feet of an existing county owned or operated water supply and
distribution system which equals the product of the number of lots within the
development (including lots to be developed in the future) multiplied by 100;
provided however, that the maximum distance required for connection shall not
exceed 5,000 feet.
         (c)   Subject to capacity sufficiency. In the event that a development
should meet the distance specification requirements of this division (B)(1),
and the county owned or operated water supply and distribution system to which
the development would connect shall be of insufficient capacity to permit the
delivery of water to the development, the subject development shall be relieved
of the requirement to connect to such county system. In no case shall capacity
be guaranteed until such time that plans have been approved and permitted by
DENR and system development fees are paid in full.
      (2)   Review requirements. When a developer or subdivider is required to
install a water distribution system pursuant to this section, prior to final
plat approval, the plans for the water distribution system to be so installed
shall be submitted to the county’s Department of Public Utilities. The
location, size, and specifications of the water distribution system shall be
placed upon the plat for review and approval. The county’s Department of Public
Utilities shall review the information supplied and determine whether the plans
meet the requirements of this section.
      (3)   Plan specification. The plans for a water distribution system to be
installed pursuant to this section shall show and/or state thereon such
information as will indicate that the system planned will meet, when
constructed and installed, the requirements of this section.
      (4)   Water distribution system specifications. A water distribution
system to be constructed within a development pursuant to this section and/or
connected to the county owned or operated system shall:
         (a)   Be a minimum of six inches, except on the last 500 feet of water
line on permanent cul-de-sacs within subdivisions, as approved by the Director
of Public Utilities;
         (b)   Be properly connected in such a manner as to adequately serve
all lots shown on the subdivision plat (including both present and future lots)
for domestic use and fire protection;
         (c)   Conform to the specifications of the county’s Department of
Public Utilities as provided by the Department and conform to Title 15A
Subchapter 18C of NCAC, as specified by the North Carolina Department of
Environment and Natural Resources (NCDENR), Division of Environmental Health,
Public Water Supply Section, and as specified in The Development of Water and
Sewer Utilities in the county’s Water and Sewer Districts;
         (d)   Be approved by the necessary federal and/or state agencies prior
to or at the time of completion;
         (e)   Conform to all federal, state, and/or local ordinances, rules,
and regulations relating thereto, and any license and/or permits required shall
be obtained, including all NCDENR regulations; and
         (f)   Be constructed pursuant to the necessary contractual agreements
required by the policies, rules, and regulations of the county’s Department of
Public Utilities.
      (5)   Subdivisions where section not applicable. When located outside the
service area of a county owned or operated water supply and distribution system
and/or outside the distance specifications, lot sizes within a subdivision may
be allowed to be reduced, provided adequate water is available for domestic use
from a community water system to be installed by the developer; and provided
six-inch water lines are installed to service fire hydrant locations such that
no primary structure is farther than 500 feet from such a location, and stub
outs with gate valves are provided at the fire hydrant locations. If the
subdivision does not meet these provisions, it shall be considered under the
regulations specified herein for property not having public water available.
   (C)   Sewage disposal system.
      (1)   Connection.
         (a)   Connection requirement.
            1.   Any development which is created after the adoption of this
section, and is located within that number of feet of an existing county owned
or operated sewage disposal system as is specified in division (C)(1)(b) below,
whether the development is located within or without the service area of an
existing county owned or operated public sewage disposal system, the developer
shall cause a sewage disposal system, meeting the standards herein specified,
to be constructed and installed in such development and shall further cause the
sewage disposal system to be connected to the existing county owned or operated
public sewage disposal system which is located as specified in division (C)(1)
(b) below. This requirement also applies to new phases of existing development
where these phases have not been previously approved by the appropriate County
Development Review Board.
               a.   All property which abuts right(s)-of-way in which is
installed and constructed a county owned or operated gravity sewer collection
line and the property is located not more than 300 feet from the gravity sewer
collection line shall be required to connect to the county owned or operated
system.
               b.   All property which abuts right(s)-of-way in which is
installed and constructed a county owned or operated force main sewer
collection line designed to serve a specific area where due to topography or
other engineering factors, a gravity sewer line is not feasible, as determined
by the Director of the county’s Department of Public Utilities, shall be
required to connect to the county owned or operated system when the property is
not located more than 300 feet from the collection line.
            2.   The developer may establish and create a public sewage
disposal system or connect the development to an existing public sewage
disposal system. However, such created public sewage disposal system or such
sewage disposal system to be connected to an existing system shall be approved
by and meet the requirements of all federal, state, and local governments,
including, but not limited to, the NCDENR.
         (b)   Distance specification. A development shall be required to meet
the conditions of this section when the development is located within that
number of feet of an existing county owned or operated sewage disposal system
which equals the product of the number of lots within the development
(including lots to be developed in the future) multiplied by 100; provided
however, that the maximum distance required for connection shall be 5,000 feet.
         (c)   Subject to capacity sufficiency. In the event that a development
should meet the distance specification requirements of this division (C)(1),
and the county owned or operated sewage disposal system to which the
development would connect shall be of insufficient capacity to permit the
collection and treatment of sewage from the development, the subject
development shall be relieved of the requirement to connect to such county
system. In no case shall capacity be guaranteed until such time that plans have
been approved and permitted by DENR and system development fees are paid in
full.
      (2)   Review requirements. When a developer or subdivider is required to
install a sewage disposal system pursuant to this section, prior to final plat
approval, the plans for the sewage disposal system to be so installed shall be
submitted to the county’s Department of Public Utilities. The location, size,
and specifications of the sewage disposal system shall be placed upon the plat
for review and approval. The county’s Department of Public Utilities shall
review the information supplied and determine whether the plans meet the
requirements of this section.
      (3)   Plan specification. The plans for a sewage disposal system to be
installed pursuant to this section shall show and/or state thereon such
information as will indicate that the system planned will meet, when
constructed and installed, the requirements of this section.
      (4)   Sewage disposal system specifications. A sewage disposal system to
be constructed within a subdivision pursuant to this section and/or connected
to the county owned or operated system shall:
         (a)   Be properly connected in such a manner as to adequately serve
all lots shown on the subdivision plat (including both present and future
lots);
         (b)   Conform to the specifications of the county’s Department of
Public Utilities as provided by the Department and conform to l5A NCAC 2T, as
specified by the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural
Resources, Division of Water Quality, and as specified in The Development of
Water and Sewer Utilities in Harnett County Water and Sewer Districts;
         (c)   Be approved by the necessary federal and/or state agencies prior
to or at the time of completion;
         (d)   Conform to all federal, state, and/or local ordinances, rules,
and regulations relating thereto, and any license and/or permits required shall
be obtained; and
         (e)   Be constructed pursuant to the necessary contractual agreements
required by the policies, rules, and regulations of the county’s Department of
Public Utilities.
      (5)   Subdivisions where section not applicable. When located outside the
service area of a county owned or operated sewage disposal system and/or
outside the distance specifications, lot sizes within a subdivision may be
allowed to be reduced, provided adequate sewage disposal is provided from a
community sewerage system to be installed by the developer. If the subdivision
does not meet these provisions, it shall be considered under the regulations
specified herein for property not having public sewerage disposal.
   (D)   Fire protection.
      (1)   General fire hydrant requirements. Adequate fire protection shall
be provided to all new subdivision developments and nonresidential new
construction and expansions. The developer or subdivider shall install fire
hydrants in such a manner that the development is afforded adequate fire
protection as provided in this chapter. The regulations contained herein are
intended to facilitate proper installation of required fire protection
measures.
         (a)   All hydrants shall be County Public Utilities and Fire Code
Official approved, in accordance with the requirements of this section.
            1.   No fire hydrant shall be installed on less than a six-inch
main.
            2.   Hydrants shall have two two-and-one-half inch and one four-
and-one-half inch connections with threads of the National Pipe Thread (NPT)
type.
            3.   The upper hydrant operation stem within the bonnet shall be
sealed and lubricated by means of an oil or grease bath, unless otherwise
approved. The operating nut shall be pentagonal type measuring one-and-one-half
inch from point to flat. Hydrants shall open left.
            4.   All hydrants shall be furnished with barrel and stem
extensions as required for the final field location. Nominal minimum bury will
be a depth of three-and-one-half feet. All hydrants at finish grade shall
measure 18 inches from ground to center of steamer cap.
            5.   Water lines servicing fire hydrants shall have at least 500
gallons of water flow per minute.
         (b)   The Fire Code Official shall approve all hydrant types and
locations in new developments and any alterations to this chapter related to
fire hydrants and fire protection.
         (c)   All fire hydrants shall be located on the right side of the
roadway in which responding fire apparatus would travel into subdivisions,
beginning at the main entrance to the subdivision.
      (2)   Fire hydrants in subdivisions.
         (a)   Residential subdivisions. In residential subdivisions, fire
hydrants shall be located in such a manner that no primary structure is further
than 500 feet from a hydrant. The distance between hydrants, shall be measured
along street centerlines. There shall be at least one fire hydrant at each
intersection. When residential intersections are less than 700 feet apart, a
hydrant is not required between the intersections.
         (b)   Nonresidential subdivisions. In nonresidential subdivisions,
fire hydrants shall be located in such a manner that no primary structure is
further than 400 feet from a hydrant, measured along street centerlines. There
shall be at least one fire hydrant at each intersection. Fire hydrants required
in addition to those required at intersections may be installed at the time of
lot development in order to facilitate better location and shall be noted on
the site plan, as required; however, each lot shall meet the requirements of
this section.
      (3)   Fire hydrants for nonresidential development. Fire hydrants, or
other fire protection methods as approved by the Fire Marshal’s office, shall
be required for all new construction and expansions of nonresidential
development. Fire hydrants shall be located in such a manner that no primary
structure is further than 400 feet from a hydrant, measured along the street
centerline. Development of lots located along divided right(s)-of-way shall
only consider distance to hydrants located on the same side of the right(s)-of-
way.
      (4)   Residential sprinklers. Where the provisions outlined above do not
facilitate adequate fire protection (i.e., 500 gallons of water flow per
minute) for the purposes of this chapter, residential sprinklers shall be
required. In such cases, the Director of Public Utilities and Fire Code
Official may reduce the required water line size and increase fire hydrant
spacing. The required fire flow (as defined by gallons per minute) shall be
determined during the design of the system by a professional qualified to do
such work. Upon installation of the water supply infrastructure, the actual
fire flow shall be determined on-site by a professional qualified to do such
work and Fire Service Personnel using an approved method.
   (E)   All other utilities. All other utilities, including, but not limited
to, electrical, cable, and telephone utilities, shall be placed underground.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 7-15-2019; Res. passed 11-18-2019; Ord.
2022-05, passed 2-21-2022)
§ 153.156 LIGHTING STANDARDS.
   Outdoor lighting for nonresidential purposes and for major subdivisions
shall be designed to provide the minimum lighting necessary to ensure adequate
safety, night vision, and comfort, and not create or cause excessive glare onto
adjacent properties and public right(s)-of-way. Vehicular lights, temporary
emergency lighting needed by emergency management personnel, navigational
lighting systems at airports, lighting for outdoor advertising signs, and
lighting required by other local, state, or federal regulations shall be exempt
from the requirements of this section.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Applicability. All applications for site plans, nonresidential
special use permits, and major subdivisions shall meet the requirements of this
section and shall include information regarding lighting, including location,
type, height, and lumen output of all proposed and existing fixtures.
      (2)   General standards. Lighting shall be located in such a manner as to
prevent direct glare and lighting onto adjacent property or into the public
right(s)-of-way. All flood lights shall be installed such that the fixture
shall be aimed down at least 45 degrees from vertical.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/30f7820eea5cd7ea02f3978cb658a054226f91aa/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1560.png]
         (a)   All wall pack fixtures shall be cutoff fixtures, as provided in
the example below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/30f7820eea5cd7ea02f3978cb658a054226f91aa/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1562.png]
         (b)   Sensor activated lighting may be unshielded provided it is
located in such a manner as to prevent direct glare and lighting into
properties of others or into a public right(s)-of-way, and provided the light
is set to only go on when activated and to go off within five minutes after
activation has ceased. The light shall not be triggered by activity off the
property.
         (c)   Uplighting is prohibited in all zoning districts, except in
cases where the fixture is shielded by a roof overhang or similar structural
shield. Upward flagpole lighting is permitted for governmental flags only and
provided that the maximum lumen output is 1,300 lumens. Flags are encouraged to
be taken down at sunset to avoid the need for lighting.
         (d)   Outdoor lighting fixtures shall use metal halide or light
emitting diode (LED) bulbs.
   (B)   Nonresidential and multifamily developments; maximum lighting height.
The mounting height of all outdoor lighting shall not exceed 35 feet above
finished grade, unless otherwise approved by the Planning Board or as part of a
development plan. Athletic field and race track lighting shall have a maximum
height of 80 feet above finished grade and the hours of operation for the
lighting system for any athletic field or race track shall not exceed one hour
after the end of the event.
   (C)   Major subdivisions; street lighting. Adequate lights shall be provided
to illuminate right(s)-of-way, common driveways, walkways, and dead-end streets
for the safe movement of vehicles and pedestrians at night.
      (1)   Minimum lighting. The minimum size streetlight shall be 7,000 lumen
class or its equivalent.
      (2)   Spacing. Lights shall be spaced at intervals not more than 300 feet
for residential subdivisions and not more than 200 feet for nonresidential
subdivisions. Lighting shall be installed beginning at the entrance to the
subdivision.
      (3)   Materials. High-pressure sodium fixtures shall be permitted only
within residential subdivisions.
   (D)   Lighting standard plan alternative.
      (1)   In lieu of compliance with the lighting standards of this section,
an applicant may submit to the Planning Board for review and approval a
detailed plan and specifications for lighting. The Planning Board may approve
the alternative lighting standard plan upon finding that the proposal will
afford a degree of lighting, in terms of height, spacing, and safety to or
exceeding that provided by the requirements of this section.
      (2)   The following criteria shall be used in determining whether a
lighting standard plan alternative can be accepted by the Planning Board in
lieu of meeting the requirements of this section:
         (a)   The proposal includes a clear and concise explanation of the
specific standards that cannot be met and how the alternative methods proposed
will achieve the intent of this section;
         (b)   The proposal represents the use of alternative methods and/or
materials which will result in a development pattern which is equivalent to or
greater than that required by this chapter;
         (c)   The proposed use and design alternative is compatible with
adjacent land uses;
         (d)   The proposal is compatible with and will enhance the use or
value of adjacent and area properties;
         (e)   The proposal is consistent with the intent of adopted county
plans; and
         (f)   The proposed development standards are, in all other aspects,
consistent with the intent and purpose of this chapter.   
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.157 OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   The Board of Commissioners declares the purposes and intent of the
open space regulations adopted and prescribed in this section to be as follows:
         (a)   To provide adequate improved recreational open space areas and
unimproved open space;
         (b)   To provide prime views and open vistas, providing relief from an
urban landscape;
         (c)   To encourage the preservation of existing trees and vegetation;
         (d)   To encourage the retention of environmentally sensitive areas,
such as, steep slopes, bodies of water, streams, wetlands and land adjoining
the Cape Fear River;
         (e)   To encourage the protection of air and water quality;
         (f)   To enhance flood control;
         (g)   To provide protection for historically or archeologically
significant areas; and
         (h)   When open space is required as part of the specific development,
a minimum of 10% of the total open space required in residential developments
shall include improved open space area(s) as defined by this section. The
improved open space area shall be proportionate to the entire development and,
if applicable, each phase shall include an area of improved open space. In no
case shall an open space area be less than the smallest lot within the phase in
which the open space is located.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, USABLE OPEN SPACE means an area that:
         (a)   Is not encumbered with any structure unless such structure is
intended for recreational open space purposes;
         (b)   Is not contained within street right(s)-of-way or otherwise
devoted to use as a roadway, ingress/egress easement, or parking area not
associated with the use of the open space;
         (c)   If left in its natural or undisturbed state (as of the date
development began), if wooded (except for the cutting of trails for walking or
jogging) or, if not wooded at the time of development, is landscaped for
ballfields, picnic areas, play areas, or similar recreational open space
facilities, or is properly vegetated and landscaped with the objective of
creating a wooded area or other area that is consistent with the objective set
forth herein;
         (d)   Is capable of being used and enjoyed for purposes of informal
and unstructured recreation and relaxation;
         (e)   Is legally and practicably accessible to the residents of the
development out of which the required open and recreational open space is
taken, or to the public if dedication of the open and recreational open space;
and
         (f)   Is not encumbered by private underground septic lines, any part
of a private sewage disposal system, or any private above-ground or below-
ground septic related structure, or related easements.
      (3)   The following areas shall be regarded as open space where such
areas satisfy the criteria set forth in division (A)(2) above:
         (a)   Public utility easements located outside of street right(s)-of-
way such as drainage, access, sewer or water lines, or other public purpose;
         (b)   Private cemeteries located on a tract prior to its development;
         (c)   Areas used for growing crops;
         (d)   Agricultural and horticultural uses, specifically excluding
commercial livestock operations;
         (e)   Pastureland for horses used solely for recreation purposes;
         (f)   Public or private recreational facilities including but not
limited to playgrounds, tennis courts, ball fields, volleyball courts, etc.,
which are improved to the accepted national or local standards for size and
associated amenities;
         (g)   Neighborhood open space uses such as village greens, community
gardens, and trails; and
         (h)   Golf or tennis club open to the public.
      (4)   The following areas shall not be regarded as open space and shall
not be counted toward open space required by this section:
         (a)   Islands or internal planted areas required by other sections of
this chapter shall not be considered open space for the purposes of this
section. For example, islands in parking lots shall not count towards required
open space.
      (5)   Flexibility in administration authorized.
         (a)   The requirements set forth in this section concerning the
amount, size, location, and nature of open space to be provided in connection
with residential developments are established by the Board of County
Commissioners as standards that presumptively will result in the provision of
that amount of open space that is consistent with generally recognized
standards relating to the need for such areas. The Board recognizes, however,
that due to the particular nature of a tract of land, or the particular type or
configuration of development proposed, or other factors, the underlying
objectives of this section may be achieved even though the standards are not
adhered to with mathematical precision. Therefore, the Planning Board is
authorized to permit minor deviations from these standards whenever it
determines that:
            1.   The objectives underlying these standards can be met without
strict adherence to them; and
            2.   Because of peculiarities in the developer’s tract of land or
the particular type or configuration of the development proposed, it would be
unreasonable to require strict adherence to these standards.
         (b)   Whenever the Planning Board authorizes some deviation from the
standards set forth in open space requirement, the official record of action
taken on the development application shall contain a detailed statement of the
reasons for allowing the deviation.
   (B)   Design standards for open space.
      (1)   All floodplains, streams, ponds, lakes, and other water bodies are
encouraged to be contained in open space area.
      (2)   All wetlands, and blue-line streams with a required vegetative,
riparian buffer, shall be contained in open space areas, unless platted prior
to September 16, 2019 or mitigated via the US Army Corps of Engineers
permitting process. These areas are not to be considered for the required
improved open space as specified in division (A)(1)(h) of this section.
      (3)   For developments located entirely or partially within a
conservation zoning district that surrounds a water feature (wet or dry) a
minimum of 50% of the depth of the district (measured perpendicularly from the
water feature and located closest to the water feature) shall be dedicated to
open space.
      (4)   This dedication of open space shall count towards any other open
space requirements.
      (5)   PRIME VIEWS AND OPEN VISTAS shall be defined as the area between
existing street right(s)-of-way and property line of proposed lots for the new
development.
         (a)   Developments located adjacent to interstate and principal
arterials shall provide a 175-foot minimum of prime views.
         (b)   Developments located adjacent to minor arterials and major and
minor collectors shall provide a 75-foot minimum of prime views.
         (c)   Developments located adjacent to all other street types shall
provide a 50-foot minimum of prime views.
         (d)   Required streetscape buffer shall be planted within the prime
views and open vista area.
      (6)   All open space area shall be permanently restricted from future
subdivision and development unless specifically stated herein.
      (7)   Common open space areas shall have a minimum of one access easement
to allow for utilization by all owners of property within the subdivision.
Access easements shall be a minimum of 12 feet in width and shall include an
identification sign.
      (8)   Parking for improved open space areas. All required parking areas
shall, at a minimum, be developed with six inches of aggregate base course
(ABC) gravel and include parking stops. Shared parking shall be permitted for
differing types of improved open space, utilizing the greater number of spaces
required.
         (a)   Structures. Where a structure is built, parking shall be
provided in accordance with this chapter for the same type of facility.
Structures that are not listed in this chapter shall provide parking at a ratio
of one space per 200 square feet of covered area.
         (b)   Athletic fields. When an athletic field is developed, parking
shall be provided at a ratio of one-half of what is required by this chapter.
         (c)   Pedestrian trails and other improvements. Where a pedestrian
trail or other improvements are made, parking shall be provided at the trail
head or main entrance with a minimum of five parking spaces.
   (C)   Ownership options. One of the following methods shall be utilized for
ownership of open space:
      (1)   Open space or any portion thereof may be dedicated to the county
for public use or any municipality located within the jurisdiction of the
county. Any dedication shall be formally accepted by the county or municipality
to be valid. Nothing in this chapter in any way obligates the county or
municipality to accept the dedication of any property;
      (2)   The common open space or any portion thereof may be retained,
operated, and maintained by the developer and/or development owner if a legal
document is submitted to the county prior to the issuance of a building permit
binding in perpetuity the common open space to be used as such and to be
maintained in an appropriate manner. If at any future date the owner(s) of the
common open space and its facilities wishes or is required to relinquish
control of such facilities, the common open space shall be conveyed as
described above, dedicated to the county for public use, or sold with all
operating requirements and legal obligations still binding. The common open
space shall forever be part of the development;
      (3)   Condominium and homeowners’ association. All common facilities and
open space areas may be controlled through the use of condominium agreements,
covenants, and/or homeowners association by-laws. Such agreements shall be in
accordance with relevant state law;
      (4)   Non-profit conservation organization; or
      (5)   Private ownership.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 9-16-2019; Res. passed 3-16-2020; Ord.
2022-12, passed 5-16-2022)
§ 153.158 BUFFERS AND LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   General provisions. Buffers shall be required in accordance with the
“Land use relationships” table in division (A)(7) below in an effort to reduce
environmental and aesthetic impacts of development, and to screen public right
(s)-of-way and adjacent property unless otherwise provided by this chapter.
      (1)   Development exempt from buffer requirements. The following
activities or uses shall be exempt from buffer requirements in this section:
         (a)   Public improvement projects. The construction of any public
street or utility service line, whether publicly or privately owned;
         (b)   Maintenance. Maintenance of any structure;
         (c)   Single-family residence. Single-family residences, including
manufactured homes, are exempt from buffer requirements, but shall comply with
all other requirements regarding single-family residences and manufactured
homes;
         (d)   Home occupation. Home occupation, as defined in this chapter;
         (e)   Accessory to principal use. Any accessory structure or use,
whether temporary or permanent, integral to an approved development permitted
in accordance with the provisions of this title. Such accessory structure or
use shall comply with the design and performance provisions of this chapter;
and
         (f)   Temporary uses, nonmaterial. Those activities of short duration
that do not materially affect the area’s natural environment, parking
requirements, transportation patterns, public health, or economic values shall
be reviewed for approval by the Administrator.
      (2)   Buffering of expanded uses. Expansion of a use existing prior to
the effective date of this chapter shall be required to come into conformance
with all buffer requirements.
      (3)   Minimum standards for installation. Required installation, trees,
and shrubs shall meet the following standards, except as may be specifically
provided elsewhere in the chapter. Trees shall meet the standard definition of
the tree type for which it is intended to be utilized.
         (a)   Large maturing tree. All required large maturing trees shall
have a minimum caliper of two inches, measured six inches above the proper
planting level, or a minimum height of six feet at the time of planting.
         (b)   Medium and small/ornamental tree. All required medium and small/
ornamental trees shall have a minimum height of six feet at the time of
planting. In lieu of the large maturing tree planting requirement, medium and
small/ornamental trees shall be planted at a rate of two trees for every
required large maturing tree.
         (c)   Shrub. Shrubs shall be a minimum of two feet in height at time
of planting.
            1.   Shrubs planted for screening purposes shall form the density
necessary to fulfill the requirements of this chapter within two years from the
time of planting.
            2.   Shrubs planted in conjunction with a berm shall be exempt from
the minimum height requirement.
         (d)   Ground cover. Ground cover shall include evergreen or organic
covering, and provide 100% coverage within one year of planting, except for
mulch or turf which shall provide 100% coverage upon installation. Organic
mulch or inorganic materials (such as river rock) may be utilized to fulfill
the ground cover requirement of this chapter but may not be substituted for
required plantings and shall provide 100% coverage upon installation.
         (e)   Berm. A berm shall have a maximum of 3:1 slope with a minimum
crown width of two feet and planting combination, with the berm an average
height of three feet and dense plantings which will, when combined with the
berm, achieve a minimum height of six feet and 75% opacity within two years.
         (f)   Specifications. All specifications for the measurement, quality,
and installation of trees and shrubs shall be in accordance with American
Standards for Nursery Stock published by the American Nursery and Landscape
Association, free of disease, and in otherwise sound and healthy condition.
      (4)   Existing vegetation. The retention of existing vegetation shall be
maximized to the extent practical, wherever such vegetation contributes to
required buffering and screening or to the preservation of significant trees.
         (a)   If it is demonstrated that existing vegetation meets the intent
of this section, the Administrator may waive some or all of the requirements
for the planting(s). Such waiver shall be considered only after an inventory of
existing vegetation to be utilized has been provided by the developer. The
inventory shall indicate the type, number, and size of each existing plant to
be utilized. It shall not be necessary to include the total number of plants,
only those being utilized to fulfill the requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   Plantings to be utilized shall be maintained without injury and
with sufficient area for the root system to sustain the plant. Protective care
and restraint barriers shall be utilized at the drip line of any trees to be
utilized.
      (5)   Responsibility of installation and maintenance.
         (a)   One-hundred percent of the applicable buffer requirements shall
be the responsibility of the developer, unless expressly provided otherwise.
         (b)   The owner(s) of the property where the buffer or screening is
shall be responsible for maintaining the buffer and all required plantings in
good condition at all times.
      (6)   Alternative buffers and screening plan. Alternative buffer and
screening techniques may be utilized in accordance with the following
provisions. In such cases where the required buffering may create a sight
distance conflict with an existing or proposed driveway, the required trees may
be clustered with other plantings so as to maintain a proper sight distance.
Planning Board approval shall not be required in such a case.
         (a)   Administrative review of alternative buffer and screening plan.
An applicant may submit to the Administrator for review and approval a detailed
plan and specifications for landscaping and screening of up to a 50% reduction
in buffer width. In such case, plantings shall be provided at 150% of the
listed requirement for the appropriate buffer type. This option shall not apply
to divisions (B)(5) or (C) below.
         (b)   Planning Board review of alternative buffers and screening
plan. 
            1.   In lieu of compliance with the buffer and screening
requirements of this section, an applicant may submit to the Planning Board for
review and approval a detailed plan and specifications for landscaping and
screening. The Planning Board may approve the alternative buffering and
screening upon finding that the proposal will afford a degree of buffering and
screening, in terms of height, opacity, and separation to or exceeding that
provided by the requirements of this section.
            2.   The following criteria shall be used in determining whether an
alternative buffer and screening plan alternative can be accepted by the
Planning Board in lieu of meeting the requirements of this section:
               a.   The proposal includes a clear and concise explanation of
the specific standards that cannot be met and how the alternative methods
proposed will achieve the intent of this section;
               b.   The proposal represents the use of alternative methods and/
or materials which will result in a development pattern which is equivalent to
or greater than that required by this chapter;
               c.   The proposed use and design alternative is compatible with
adjacent land uses;
               d.   The proposal is compatible with and will enhance the use or
value of adjacent and area properties;
               e.   The proposal is consistent with the intent of adopted
county plans; and
               f.   The proposed development standards are, in all other
aspects, consistent with the intent and purpose of this chapter.
      (7)   Land use relationships. The following land use relationships shall
be used to determine required screening and buffering as provided in division
(A)(8) below. All uses listed in Use Group Level One shall be exempt from
buffer requirements.
 
Proposed Use Adjacent Use
             Group 1   Group 2   Group 3   Group 4
Group 1      None      None      None      None
Group 2      Type A, C Type C    Type C    Type C
Group 3      Type A, D Type A, C Type C    Type C
Group 4      Type B    Type B    Type A, D Type C
 
         (a)   Refer to the “Table of use types and regulations” in §
153.105(B) for Use Group Level.
         (b)   If a specific use is not mentioned then it will be the duty of
the Administrator to determine which existing use is most closely related to
the proposed use in order to determine which group to classify the use under.
Further, the following Use Group Levels are assumed for undeveloped land:
residential and conservation zoned land is Use Group Level One; office and
institutional zoned land is Use Group Level Two; commercial zoned land is Use
Group Level Three; and light industrial and industrial zoned land are Use Group
Level Four.
      (8)   Required buffer and screening types. In situations where a
development is adjacent to multiple uses then the buffer requirement for each
use shall be required along each property line, otherwise the development shall
follow the requirements listed below. In situations where both vegetative
screening and fencing are either required or utilized, the required vegetation
shall be planted on the finished side of the fence, which shall face out.
Buffer shall be installed in accordance with the buffer types (Type A, Type B,
Type C, and Type D) listed herein.
         (a)   General. All buffer types shall include:
            1.   A staggered row of large maturing trees, spaced not more than
30 feet apart; and
            2.   Low-growing evergreen shrubs, evergreen ground cover, or mulch
covering the balance of the buffer area.
         (b)   Type A buffer.
            1.   Minimum width. Minimum width of 15 feet (applies to side and
rear property lines);
            2.   Option 1. A row of evergreen shrubs placed not more than four
to six feet apart which will grow to form a continuous hedge of at least six
feet in height within two years of planting;
            3.   Option 2. A masonry wall located within the required buffer
area; such wall shall be a minimum height of six feet (above finished grade)
and, if a block wall, it shall be painted on all sides; or an opaque fence six
feet in height; or
            4.   Option 3. A berm meeting the requirements of this section.
         (c)   Type B buffer.
            1.   Minimum width. Minimum width of 30 feet (applies to front,
side, and rear property lines).
            2.   Option 1. An opaque fence located within the required buffer
area; such fence shall be a minimum height of six feet in height; or
            3.   Option 2. A berm meeting the requirements of this section.
         (d)   Type C buffer.
            1.   Minimum width of ten feet (applies to area between right-of-
way and building front); and
            2.   Five low growing shrubs for every required large maturing
tree.
         (e)   Type D buffer.
            1.   Minimum width. Minimum width of 15 feet (applies to property
lines adjacent to public right-of-way or as otherwise noted within this
chapter);
            2.   Option 1. A row of evergreen shrubs, ten shrubs for every
required large maturing tree, placed not more than four feet apart which will
grow to form a continuous hedge of at least six feet in height within two years
of planting; or
            3.   Option 2. An opaque fence located within the required buffer
area; such fence shall be a minimum height of six feet in height.
      (9)   Scheduled street improvements. In cases where a right(s)-of-way is
scheduled to be widened, the developer shall plant the trees prior to the
widening project and outside of the proposed right(s)-of-way, provided that
NCDOT has marked the proposed right-of-way.
   (B)   Specific buffering and screening requirements. The following
requirements shall be required in any development on which such type of use is
required or provided, as applicable.
      (1)   Perennial stream buffering. All perennial streams, as identified by
the United States Geological Survey (USGS), not located within a watershed or
Conservation Zoning District shall have a 30-foot buffer from the edge of the
waterway. The buffer area shall remain undisturbed.
      (2)   Utility and mechanical screening. All nonresidential and
multifamily developments mechanical, utility equipment which is located on,
beside, or adjacent to any building or developments shall be fully screened
from the view of public right(s)-of-way and adjacent property. In situations
where mechanical and utility equipment is (are) located on the roof of a
structure, all devices will be fully screened from the view of right(s)-of-way
or adjacent property using building materials as listed below. The screen shall
exceed the height of the equipment by a minimum of one foot, shall not
interfere with the operation of the equipment, and shall use one or a
combination of the following screening techniques:
         (a)   Building materials and design which are compatible with those
used for the exterior of the principal building; or
         (b)   Large maturing evergreen trees or other acceptable alternative
approved by the Administrator.
      (3)   Trash containment areas screening. All trash containment devices,
including compactors and dumpsters, shall be located and designed so as not to
be visible from the view of adjacent right(s)-of-way and properties. If the
device is not visible from off the site, then it need not be screened. The type
of screening used shall be a continuous row of large maturing evergreen trees
or other acceptable alternative approved by the Administrator.
      (4)   Outdoor storage area screening. Any area utilized for outdoor
storage, as defined herein, or inventory shall be screened from view of public
and private right(s)-of-way and adjacent property. Screening shall meet the
following requirements:
         (a)   Any area utilized for outdoor storage or inventory shall be
screened in accordance with the Type D buffer screening techniques and shall be
located in the side or rear yard. However, development located within
industrial parks shall be exempt from the screening requirements except along
perimeter property lines when the property line is located on the exterior of
the park or adjacent to a residential zoning district; and/or
         (b)   An alternate buffer plan may be submitted as provided in
division (A)(6) above.
   (C)   Streetscape buffer for major subdivisions.
      (1)   Requirements. All subdivisions with more than six lots that have
lots that abut state maintained rights-of-way shall be required to adhere to
the following streetscape buffer requirements for all property that adjoins an
existing state maintained street, unless otherwise stated herein:
         (a)   Developments with lots that abut NCDOT maintained roads shall be
buffered with a minimum 30-foot buffer measured from the right-of-way.
      (2)   Streetscape buffer types. All buffer types shall include a
staggered row of large maturing trees and at least five low growing shrubs for
every required large maturing tree as well as one of the following screening
techniques:
         (a)   A row of evergreen conifers or broadleaf evergreens placed not
more than five feet apart which would grow to form a continuous hedge of at
least six feet in height within two years of planting supplemented with large
maturing trees every 30 feet;
         (b)   A masonry wall located within the required buffer; such wall
shall be a minimum height of six feet (above finished grade) and, if a block
wall, it shall be painted on all sides, supplemented with large maturing trees
every 50 feet; or an opaque fence six feet in height finished side of fence
shall face out, and supplemented with large maturing trees every 50 feet; or
         (c)   A berm, meeting the requirements of this section.
      (3)   Modification of planting types. If it is demonstrated that existing
vegetation meets the intent of this section, the subdivision administrator may
waive the requirements for the plant material.
      (4)   Ownership and maintenance of streetscape buffers. The developer
shall be completely responsible for the installation and initial maintenance of
all required streetscape buffers; until ownership changes through one of the
methods described below.
         (a)   Ownership with a homeowners association. In the situation where
a homeowners association (HOA) will be established for the proposed subdivision
then the HOA shall be responsible for modifications, maintenance, removal, or
damage to the streetscape buffer. This requirement shall be clearly labeled on
the preliminary and final plats for all proposed subdivisions. The developer
shall remain responsible for all ownership and maintenance of streetscape
buffers until the HOA has been completely established.
         (b)   Ownership without a homeowners association. In the situation
where there is not going to be a homeowners association (HOA) established for
the proposed subdivision, then the streetscape buffer shall be left under
control of the lot owner provided that each lot that contains a streetscape
buffer shall have a deed recorded with a restriction that the streetscape
buffer remain undisturbed. Further, the restriction shall state that the land
owner shall be responsible for modifications, maintenance, removal, or damage
to the streetscape buffer. This requirement shall be clearly labeled on the
preliminary and final plats for all proposed subdivisions.
      (5)   Uses prohibited within the streetscape buffer. The following uses
shall be prohibited from being located within the streetscape buffer:
         (a)   All structures;
         (b)   Storage of equipment;
         (c)   Playground equipment and other similar structures; and/or
         (d)   Driveways with the exception of main entrances to the
subdivisions.
   (D)   Landscaping for major subdivisions. Installation of street trees shall
be required for major subdivisions, in accordance with the regulations herein.
      (1)   The subdivider or developer of developments of more than six
residential lots or six dwelling units shall either plant or retain existing
healthy trees so that there is at least one deciduous tree for every 50 linear
feet of street. Street trees shall be planted or retained along both sides of
newly created public or private streets. Street trees shall be staggered on
both sides of the right(s)-of-way on local or cul-de-sac streets in residential
subdivisions.
      (2)   Street trees shall be of species that is expected to attain a
minimum height of 25 to 35 feet at maturity. Where required street trees are
located under overhead utility lines, the species shall be of a type to reach a
maximum of 20 to 25 feet. All street trees shall be at least two inches in
caliper and a minimum of six feet in height at the time of planting.
      (3)   Street trees shall be planted in a linear arrangement parallel to
the street no less than five feet and no more than ten feet outside the right-
of-way. Street trees shall be planted at least eight feet from utility poles
and ten feet from electrical transformers.
      (4)   Plans for street tree planting and retention of existing trees
shall be approved by NCDOT for all streets proposed to be dedicated as public
streets.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 3-16-2020)
§ 153.159 SIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   No sign may be located in, or overhang into, any public right-of-way except
as permitted and erected by NCDOT. Signs shall be set back at least ten feet
from any public right(s)-of-way line or property line. In cases where signs are
placed at intersections, the minimum setback shall be 20 feet as measured from
each right-of-way line or property line in both directions, except those
erected for orderly traffic control and other municipal and governmental
purposes.
   (A)   Sign measurement standards.
      (1)   Dimensions. For the purpose of this chapter, the square feet area
of the sign shall be measured to include the entire sign, including lattice
work, fencing, or wall work incidental to its decoration. When a sign consists
of letters placed directly on a wall, building surface, awning or marquee, or
against open air (as when raised above a marquee), there being no background to
the letters save the wall or surface itself, the area of the sign shall be that
of the smallest parallelogram within which all the lettering can be included.
      (2)   Height. The height of a sign shall be measured from the highest
point of a sign to the point of ground surface beneath it. Ornamentation such
as columns, caps, spires, and finials shall not extend more than two feet from
the top of the sign. The use of berms or raised landscape areas is only
permitted to raise the base of the sign to the mean elevation of the fronting
street and shall not be used as a means to avoid compliance with regulations.
   (B)   General setback requirements.
      (1)   General sign setbacks. No sign may be located in, or overhang into,
any public right-of-way except as permitted and erected by NCDOT. Signs that
are located within public right(s)-of-way shall be constructed to meet NCDOT
standards. Signs shall be set back at least ten feet from any public right(s)-
of-way line or property line. In cases where signs are placed at intersections,
the minimum setback shall be 20 feet as measured from each right-of-way line or
property line in both directions, except those erected for orderly traffic
control and other municipal and governmental purposes.
      (2)   Off-site directional sign setbacks. Directional signs of less than
six square feet and referring only to religious facilities shall be located at
least ten feet from any public right(s)-of-way.
      (3)   Directory sign setbacks. Directory signs shall be located at least
ten feet from any public right(s)-of-way or shall be constructed to meet NCDOT
standards for signs within public right(s)-of-way if located within the right-
of-way.
   (C)   Maintenance of conforming signs. Whenever a sign becomes structurally
unsafe or endangers the safety of a building or the public, the Administrator
shall order that such a sign be made safe or removed. A period of ten days
following receipt of the order by the person, firm, or corporation owning or
using the sign shall be allowed for compliance.
      (1)   A conforming business or outdoor advertising sign that has been
destroyed or significantly damaged may be reconstructed within the limits of
the rules and filling procedures set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   As per G.S. § 136-133.2, conforming outdoor advertising signs shall
be allowed to be repaired or reconstructed so long as the square footage of its
advertising surface area is not increased. This also includes the changing of
an existing multipole outdoor advertising structure to a new monopole
structure.
      (3)   Conforming sign structures may be reconstructed so long as the
reconstruction does not conflict with any applicable local, state, or federal
rules, regulations, or ordinances.
      (4)   Developments with existing conforming sign shall be allowed to make
repairs without receiving permits, unless other local, state, or federal rules
apply.
      (5)   Conforming signs shall be allowed to perform reasonable repair and
maintenance. The following activities are considered to be reasonable repair
and maintenance (no building permit shall be needed to make the following
repairs with exception of divisions (C)(5)(c) and (C)(5)(e) below:
         (a)   Change of advertising message or copy on the sign face;
         (b)   Replacement of border and trim, stringer, or panel, with like
material;
         (c)   Repair and replacement of a pole(s), with like material or
materials allowed by these regulations;
         (d)   Alterations of the dimensions of painted bulletins incidental to
copy change; and/or
         (e)   Any net decrease in the outside dimensions of the advertising
copy portion of the sign; but if the sign face or faces are reduced they may
not thereafter be increased beyond the size of the sign on the date it became
nonconforming.
      (6)   No sign shall be allowed to remain after the activity, business, or
use to which it was related has been discontinued.
      (7)   If at any time an outdoor advertising sign falls into a state of
dilapidation, disrepair, or becomes abandoned or discontinued, as defined by
this chapter, the permits for this sign shall be revoked.
   (D)   Lighting and illumination. Signs which contain, include, or are
lighted by any flashing, intermittent, or moving lights are prohibited, except
as follows:
      (1)   All signs illuminated under the provisions of this section shall be
constructed to meet the requirements of the National Electric Code.
      (2)   Such signs shall be permitted only as part of an otherwise
permitted sign or in conjunction with a permitted replacement of an existing
sign, provided that the illuminated portion shall be at least 15% of the total
square footage area of the sign and shall not exceed 35% of the total square
footage area of the sign. This section shall not apply to public service
institutions such as schools and fire departments.
      (3)   Signs which contain, include, or are lighted by any flashing,
intermittent, or moving lights are prohibited, except as follows.
         (a)   Illuminated signs shall be permitted to provide information such
as time, temperature, date, and public announcements related to the business
on-site only.
         (b)   Such signs shall be permitted only as part of an otherwise
permitted sign or in conjunction with a permitted replacement of an existing
sign, provided that the illuminated portion shall be at least 15% of the total
square footage area of the sign and shall not exceed 35% of the total square
footage area of the sign.
         (c)   Messages on such signs shall not change more than seven times
per minute. In no case shall an animated presentation or animated change of
frame be allowed.
         (d)   Illuminated signs, as an addition to an existing sign, shall be
comparable in composition, durability, and workmanship to the existing sign.
      (4)   Illuminated signs shall be limited to those lighted internally with
glass or plastic faces bearing the advertisement; provided however, that
exposed neon tubing and exposed incandescent or other bulbs not exceeding 15
watts each shall be permitted.
      (5)   The following materials shall be prohibited:
         (a)   Flame (even as a source of light); and
         (b)   Exposed neon lighting.
   (E)   Sign materials.
      (1)   General. All signs shall be constructed of weather-resistant
material designed expressly for signs.
      (2)   Pole style ground signs. All pole style ground signs with support
(s), upright(s), bracing(s), or framework(s) that include a pole encasement
shall meet the following requirements with the exception of pole style ground
signs for street signs, manufactured home park signs, interstate signs, and
historical identification signs which shall be exempt from the requirements of
this section.
         (a)   The support(s), upright(s), bracing(s), or framework(s) shall be
encased in an ornamental shell of stone, brick, ornamental metal, or similar
materials, and shall be a minimum width of one-fourth of the width of the sign
face.
         (b)   The sign shall be constructed of an external support structure
including stone, brick, ornamental metal, or similar materials, provided that
the maximum number of supports, uprights, bracings, or frameworks extending
between grade and the base of the sign face shall not exceed two.
   (F)   Prohibited signs. 
      (1)   Any sign that obscures a sign displayed by public authority for the
purposes of giving traffic instruction or direction or other public
information;
      (2)   Any sign that uses the word “stop” or “danger” or otherwise
presents or implies the need or requirement of stopping or caution or the
existence of danger, or which is a copy or imitation of, or which for any
reason is likely to be confused with, any sign displayed by a public authority;
      (3)   Any sign that obstructs any window, door, fire escape, stairway,
ladder, or opening intended to provide light, air, ingress, or egress for any
building, as required by law;
      (4)   Any portable sign, including any sign displayed on a vehicle when
used primarily for the purpose of such display; except, that this division (F)
(4) shall not apply to temporary political signs;
      (5)   Any sign that violates any provision of any law of the state
relative to outdoor advertising;
      (6)   If a sign advertises a business, service, commodity, attraction, or
other enterprise or activity that is no longer operating or being offered or
conducted, then that sign and sign structure shall be considered discontinued
regardless of reason or intent and shall, within 30 days after such
discontinuation, be removed by the owner of the property where the sign is
located. A blank sign face shall be provided to prevent any exposed sign light
bulbs and other internal sign components. Signs shall be completely removed
from the premise once a period of one year has passed from the date of vacancy;
and
      (7)   Off-site advertising shall be prohibited, except in accordance with
the provisions of this section for the uses listed below. A sign easement shall
be provided, on a survey map and recorded with the county’s Register of Deeds,
prior to issuance of permits for any off-site signs. Additionally, for the uses
listed below, up to one off-site advertising signs per use, which shall not
exceed 16 square feet in size and six feet in height, with written consent of
the property owner(s) on which the sign is located, only in cases where no sign
exists on-site.
         (a)   Religious facilities may have off-site advertising signs, for
directional purposes only. A sign easement shall be provided, on a survey map
and recorded with the county’s Register of Deeds, prior to issuance of any
permits for such signs.
         (b)   Active residential subdivisions off-site advertising signs shall
be removed once the subdivision reaches 75% build-out.
   (G)   Signs that do not require a permit. The following signs shall be
permitted in all zoning districts. Such signs shall not require a sign permit
as long as they conform to the requirements stated below.
      (1)   Identification signs. Not to exceed one square foot in display area
bearing only addresses or names of occupants of the premises and located on
privately owned property.
      (2)   Memorial plaques. Such as cornerstones, historical tablets, and
similar devices not to exceed six square feet.
      (3)   Instructional signs. Erected on private property, not to exceed six
square feet in display area, erected strictly for the direction, safety or
convenience of the public, including signs which identify restrooms, parking
area entrances or exits, freight entrances, and similar devices, warning,
danger, and no trespassing signs.
      (4)   Flags, emblems, and banners. Flags, emblems, or banners that are
decorative, seasonal, political, civic, philanthropic, educational, or
religious in nature, or that are displayed in connection with the observance of
holidays, not to exceed three per lot. Flags, emblems, or banners advertising
for-profit organizations are not covered by this section and shall meet the
requirements of this chapter for signs.
      (5)   “For Sale” or “For Rent” signs. Signs pertaining to realty on the
premises offered for sale or rent, not exceeding four square feet in area and
not illuminated. Such a sign may be placed not closer to a front property line
than ten feet. There shall be a limit of one such sign per street frontage.
      (6)   Signs advertising agricultural products produced on the premises.
Not to exceed 16 square feet in area. There shall be a limit of one such sign
per street frontage.
      (7)   Signs advertising only the name, time, and place of any temporary
event. When conducted by a public agency or for the benefit of any civic,
fraternal, religious, or charitable cause; provided, that no such sign shall be
displayed in any residential district, except on the immediate site of the
event to which it pertains; and provided further, that all such signs shall be
removed within ten days after the last day of the event to which they pertain
for such events including, but not limited to, bona fide fairs, carnivals,
festivals, bazaars, or horse shows.
      (8)   Athletic field signs. Signs located as part of athletic fields,
including scoreboards and sponsorship signs, are not required to get a permit,
unless they are visible from the public right(s)-of-way.
      (9)   Portable A-frame and sandwich board signs. A-frame and sandwich
board signs may be used to announce sales or special features during hours of
operation only. Such signs shall be professionally made of materials intended
for sign manufacturing and shall not impede pedestrian or vehicular traffic,
safety, or access. The signs shall not exceed three feet in height and maximum
size of six square feet.
      (10)   Window signs. Signs displayed in windows of store fronts shall not
cover greater than 25% of the total area of the windows of such store fronts,
and shall not count toward the total area permitted for wall signs.
      (11)   Temporary signs. Those giving information pertaining to
construction taking place on the lot upon which the sign is located. Such signs
will be removed prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy. Temporary
signs may be allowed provided the signs are not erected more than 21 calendar
days per year and not larger than 16 square feet. Temporary signs shall not be
illuminated. The signs shall not be closer to each other on the same property
than 400 feet.
      (12)   Off-site directional sign setbacks for religious facilities.
Directional signs of less than six square feet and referring only to religious
facilities shall be located at least ten feet from any public right(s)-of-way.
      (13)   Off-site recreation and cultural interest signs. Directional signs
of less than six square feet and referring to places of recreational and
cultural interest that are open to the general public such as sports complexes,
river access, wildlife areas, nature preserves, historic sites and museums.
Signs must be located a minimum of ten feet from any public right-of-way and
are required to obtain written consent of the property owner(s) on which the
sign is located.
   (H)   Signs that require a permit. Signs shall be permitted on the premises
of the business, institution, or subdivision in districts in which the
principal use is permitted and in districts in which the principal use is
conditional. All business signs shall be subject to the following limitations.
      (1)   Business signs shall not project more than one foot from any
building wall or canopy.
      (2)   If suspended from a canopy, the sign shall be at least eight feet
above the sidewalk, pavement, or ground level.
      (3)   Maximum display area, number, and height requirements for ground
and wall signs are as follows:
             Max. Signs per   Max. Sign Area                    Max.
                                                                Distance
  Max. # of                                                     Between
  Walls with Street   Project Project One Project > Max. Height Sign Type Notes
  Signs      Frontage         Acre        One Acre              on Same
                                                                Property
                                                         Max. Signs per   Max. Sign Area           Max.
                                                                                                   Distance
                                                                                                   Between
                            Max. # of Walls with Signs   Street           Project  Project  Max.   Sign     Notes
                                                         Frontage Project One Acre > One    Height Type on
                                                                                   Acre            Same
                                                                                                   Property

                                                                                                            Shall be
Business      Interstate                                                  500 sq.  500 sq.  125             governed by
signs         highways                                            1       ft.      ft.      ft.             remaining
                                                                          total    total                    sections of
                                                                                                            the chapter
              Ground                                                      300 sq.  300 sq.
              (campus                                             6       ft. /    ft. /           300 ft.
              directory                                                   side     side
              signs)
                                                                          75 sq.   75 sq.                   Portion may
              Ground (per                                         2       ft. /    ft. /    12 ft.          be used for
              facility)                                                   side     side                     changeable
                                                                                                            copy
              Sporting      Follow above “Wall” sign                  650 sq.  650 sq.
College and   facility      req.                                  1       ft. /    ft. /    25 ft.
university    signs*                                                      side     side
locations     Temporary                                           2 per   100 sq.  100 sq.                  Shall be
              (events or                                          event/  ft. /    ft. /    12 ft. 300 ft.  removed at
              construction)                                       1 per   side     side                     completion or
                                                                  const.                                    end
                                                                          sq. ft.  sq. ft.
                                                                          = total  = total
              Wall          3                                             linear   linear                   Applies to
                                                                          ft. of   ft. of                   each facility
                                                                          mounting mounting
                                                                          wall     wall
Customary                                                                 6 sq.    6 sq.
home          Ground                                     1        1       ft. /    ft. /    4 ft.
occupations                                                               side     side
                                                                                                            Only one
                                                                                                            directional
Directional                                                               2 sq.    2 sq.                    sign shall be
signs         Ground                                     1        1       ft. /    ft. /    3 ft.           located per
                                                                          side     side                     intersection
                                                                                                            and/or
                                                                                                            driveway.
                                                                          75 sq.   75 sq.                   Portion may
              Ground                                     1        2       ft. /    ft. /    12 ft.          be used for
              (directory)                                                 side     side                     changeable
                                                                                                            copy
Institutional                                                             sq. ft.  sq. ft.
locations                                                                 = total  = total
              Wall          3                                             linear   linear
                                                                          ft. of   ft. of
                                                                          mounting mounting
                                                                          wall     wall
                                                                          32 sq.   32 sq.                   Name of MHP
                                                                          ft. /    ft. /                    and owner/
Manufactured  Ground                                     1                side     side     12 ft.          operator
home park                                                                 min.     min.                     phone num.
                                                                          area: 16 area: 16                 shall be
                                                                          sq. ft.  sq. ft.                  included.
                                                                          20 sq.   20 sq.                   Located at
              Directory                                  1                ft. /    ft. /    5 ft.  50 ft.   interior
                                                                          side     side                     intersections
                                                                                                            only
                                                                          150 sq.  200 sq.
                                                                          ft. /    ft. /
                                                                          side or  side or
                                                                          sq. ft.  sq. ft.
              Ground                                     1        2       = total  = total  15 ft. 300 ft.
                                                                          linear   linear
                                                                          ft. of   ft. of
                                                                          mounting mounting
                                                                          wall     wall
                                                                                                            Applies to
                                                                                                            each tenant
Multi-tenant                                                                                                of complex
and shopping                                                                                                 
complex                                                                                                     * All side
                                                                                                            wall signs
                                                                                                            shall be no
                                                                          sq. ft.  sq. ft.                  larger than
                                                                          = total  = total                  50% of
                                                                          linear   linear                   allowable
              Wall          2*#                                           ft. of   ft. of                   maximum sign
                                                                          mounting mounting                 area.
                                                                          wall     wall                      
                                                                                                            # One sign
                                                                                                            per wall,
                                                                                                            maximum of 2
                                                                                                            wall signs,
                                                                                                            including a
                                                                                                            front, rear,
                                                                                                            or side if
                                                                                                            applicable.
                                                                                                            Located at
              Directory                                  1                                  4 ft.  50 ft.   interior
                                                                                                            intersections
                                                                                                            only
              Ground                                                      75 sq.   75 sq.
              (parcels)                                           1       ft. /    ft. /    12 ft.
                                                                          side     side
Non-res.      Ground                                                      150 sq.  200 sq.
subdivision   (subdivision)                              1        2       ft. /    ft. /    15 ft.
                                                                          side     side
                                                                          sq. ft.  sq. ft.
                                                                          = total  = total
              Wall          3                                             linear   linear
                                                                          ft. of   ft. of
                                                                          mounting mounting
                                                                          wall     wall
                                                                          100 sq.  150 sq.
              Ground                                     1        2       ft. /    ft. /    15 ft. 300 ft.
                                                                          side     side
Office                                                                    sq. ft.  sq. ft.
buildings                                                                 = total  = total
              Wall          3                                             linear   linear
                                                                          ft. of   ft. of
                                                                          mounting mounting
                                                                          wall     wall
              Ground                                                      75 sq.   75 sq.
              (multi-tenant                              1        2       ft. /    ft. /    12 ft. 300 ft.
              or directory)                                               side     side
Official                                                                  sq. ft.  sq. ft.
government                                                                = total  = total
signs         Wall          3                                             linear   linear
                                                                          ft. of   ft of
                                                                          mounting mounting
                                                                          wall     wall
                                                                                                            1 double-
Residential   Ground                                                      50 sq.   50 sq.                   faced or 2
subdivision   (subdivision)                                               ft. /    ft. /    6 ft.           single-faced
                                                                          side     side                     signs per
                                                                                                            entrance
                                                                                                            * Required
                                                                          100 sq.  150 sq.                  monument
              Ground                                     1        2       ft. /    ft. /    15 ft* 300 ft.  signs shall
                                                                          side     side                     have a max.
                                                                                                            height of 12
Single tenant                                                                                               ft.
                                                                          sq. ft.  sq. ft.
                                                                          = total  = total
              Wall          3                                             linear   linear
                                                                          ft. of   ft. of
                                                                          mounting mounting
                                                                          wall     wall
 
   (I)   Outdoor advertising signs. Outdoor advertising signs shall be
permitted in the Commercial/Business District; except in Commercial/Business
Districts located within a designated Highway Corridor Overlay District. All
outdoor advertising signs shall be subject to the following regulations:
      (1)   Maximum display area. The maximum size of the display area of
outdoor advertising signs along interstate highways shall be 500 square feet.
The maximum size of the display area of outdoor advertising signs for all other
sections of the county shall be 300 square feet. Double faced signs shall be
permitted provided that each individual sign shall meet the display area
requirements for that area of the county.
      (2)   Height regulations.
         (a)   No outdoor advertising sign shall exceed a height of 35 feet at
street grade not to exceed 45 feet measured from the ground level to the
highest part of the sign structure.
         (b)   The minimum height of the lowest portion of display surface of
the outdoor advertising sign shall be elevated to a height of eight feet from
the ground level.
         (c)   The Planning Department shall be supplied with drawings
certifying that this height requirement has been met once the sign has been
constructed.
         (3)   Setback requirements. Outdoor advertising signs shall be setback
a minimum of 50 feet from any public or private right-of-way or easement. No
portion of the sign shall be located within the required minimum setback.
      (4)   Lighting. Display lighting of signs shall be shielded so as to
prevent the direction of such light into any structure used primarily for
residential purposes and into vehicles traveling on nearby roadways. No
rotating, revolving, flashing, or intermittent lighting devices shall be
attached to or made a part of any outdoor advertising sign.
      (5)   Spacing.
         (a)   All outdoor advertising signs shall be spaced a minimum of 1,500
feet apart.
         (b)   The minimum distance between signs shall be measured along the
nearest edge of the pavement between points directly opposite the signs along
each side of the highway and shall apply to sign structures located on both
sides of the highway.
         (c)   Such signs shall be no closer than 500 feet from any residential
structure. However, a sign may be allowed to locate within 250 feet from any
residential structure if the applicant can secure a waiver from all adjacent
property owners within 500 feet of the proposed sign. This waiver shall state
that the property owner is aware of the proposed sign and agrees that the sign
can locate within the distance; this waiver shall be signed and notarized by
all applicable owners of the adjacent properties.
         (d)   All outdoor advertising signs shall be located at least 500 feet
from any intersection. This measurement shall be taken along the edge of the
pavement to the center of the intersecting street.
         (e)   All outdoor advertising signs shall be located at least 500 feet
from any controlled access point. This spacing measurement shall be taken in
accordance with the regulations given in the latest edition of Regulations for
the Control of Outdoor Advertising in North Carolina by NCDOT. See also, 19A
NCAC 02E .0203 Outdoor Advertising on Controlled Routes.
         (f)   No outdoor advertising signs shall be located within any of the
designated airport zones mentioned in §§
153.190 through 153.193.
      (6)   Department of transportation compliance. All outdoor advertising
signs that are required to be permitted from NCDOT shall maintain compliance
with all required regulations.
      (7)   Movable message and electronic display.
         (a)   Electronic display techniques include any portion of a billboard
that contains alphanumeric characters, graphics, or symbols defined by a small
number of matrix elements using different combinations of light emitting diodes
(LEDs), fiber optics, light bulbs, or other illumination device within the
display area, including computer programmable, microprocessor controlled
electronic displays, and projected images or messages with these
characteristics onto the sign face.
         (b)   Any billboard utilizing electronic display techniques in whole
or in part must meet the following operational standards.
            1.   Duration. The full billboard image, or any portion thereof,
must have a minimum duration of 20 minutes and must be a static display. No
portion of the image may flash, scroll, twirl, change color, in any manner
imitate movement, or meet the characteristics of a flashing sign.
            2.   Transition. Where the full billboard image, or any portion
thereof, changes, the change sequence must be accomplished by means of
instantaneous re-pixelization.
            3.   Brightness. The sign must not exceed a maximum illumination of
5,000 nits (candelas per square meter) during daylight hours and a maximum
illumination of 500 nits (candelas per square meter) between dusk to dawn as
measured from the sign’s face at maximum brightness.
            4.   Dimmer control. Electronic graphic display signs must have an
automatic dimmer control to produce a distinct illumination change from a
higher illumination level to a lower level for the time period between one
half-hour before sunset and one half-hour after sunrise.
            5.   Audio or pyrotechnics. Audio speakers or any form of
pyrotechnics shall be prohibited in association with a billboard.
            6.   Fluctuating or flashing illumination. No portion of any
billboard shall fluctuate in light intensity or use intermittent, strobe,
moving light, or light that changes in intensity in sudden transitory bursts,
streams, zooms, twinkles, sparkles, or in any manner creates the illusion of
movement.
            7.   Video display. No portion of any billboard shall change its
message or background in a manner or by a method of display characterized by
motion or pictorial imagery, or depicts action or a special effect to imitate
movement, or the presentation of pictorials or graphics displayed in a
progression of frames that give the illusion of motion or the illusion of
moving objects, moving patterns, or bands of light or expanding or contracting
shapes.
      (8)   Transfer of permit. The transfer of ownership of a specific outdoor
advertising sign for which a permit has been lawfully issued to the original
owner shall not in any way affect the validity of the permit for that specific
sign, provided that the Administrator and the appropriate Department of
Transportation District Engineer is given written notice of the transfer of
ownership within 60 days of the actual transfer. Once this period has expired
and no notification has been made then the applicant shall be required to
obtain a new land use and zoning permit.
      (9)   Dilapidated and abandoned signs. If at any time an outdoor
advertising sign falls into a state of dilapidation, disrepair, or becomes
abandoned or discontinued, as defined by the latest edition of Regulations for
the Control of Outdoor Advertising in North Carolina by NCDOT, and thus not a
NCDOT permitted sign, the permits for such sign shall be revoked.
      (10)   Structural support. Where the structural support is visible from
any street, the display shall be constructed on a steel single pole or I-Beam
type structure.
      (11)   Revocation of permit. Any valid permit issued for a lawful outdoor
advertising structure may be revoked by the Administrator for any one or more
of the following reasons:
         (a)   Mistake of material facts by the issuing authority for which had
the correct facts been made known, the outdoor advertising permit in question
would not have been issued;
         (b)   Issuance of a permit based on an error in law;
         (c)   Misrepresentation of material facts by the outdoor advertiser on
the application for a permit for outdoor advertising;
         (d)   Failure to pay all applicable fees;
         (e)   Any alteration of an outdoor advertising structure for which a
permit has previously been issued which would cause that outdoor advertising
structure to fail to comply with the provisions of the Outdoor Advertising
Control Act and the rules and regulations promulgated by the North Carolina
Department of Transportation pursuant thereto;
         (f)   Any violation of the standards for nonconforming signs;
         (g)   Any violation of the transfer of permit standards;
         (h)   Failure to reconstruct a non-conforming sign within 180 days as
noted in the expiration of a sign permit section;
         (i)   Failure to locate sign in the approved location on the site
plan;
         (j)   Any violation of state or federal regulations for outdoor
advertising that results in revocation of permits; or
         (k)   Any violation of the standards for dilapidated or abandoned
sign.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 6-18-2012; Res. passed 2-17-2014; Res.
passed 1-17-2017; Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-19-2024; Ord. 2024-02, passed 2-19-
2024)
§ 153.160 DISPLAY AREA.
   (A)   Display area: retail sales. Any outdoor display areas shall be
permitted as an accessory to the retail use for which site plan approval has
been granted and shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   Display areas shall be located on an improved surface in a location
so as not to impede pedestrian or vehicular ingress/egress to the
establishment, and specifically shall not be located within public or private
right(s)-of-way or create unsafe conditions.
      (2)   Display area shall be limited to one-half the length of the store
front and shall not be located within five feet of the entrance to the
establishment.
   (B)   Display area: retail sales, outdoor. Outdoor display areas shall be
permitted as an accessory to the outdoor retail sales use for uses which site
plan approval has been granted and shall not be located within public or
private right(s)-of-way or in required landscaping or buffer yards. Display
area shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Maximum allowable outdoor display shall be 50% of the sum total of
the following equation:
      Length of proposed front property line times (X) required front setback
         EXAMPLE: 250 ft. wide lot located in Industrial Zoning District
         250 X 50 = 12500/2 = 6,250 square feet allowable outdoor display area
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/30f7820eea5cd7ea02f3978cb658a054226f91aa/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1564.png]
      (2)   In no case shall more than 50% of the total allowable display area
be developed into an impervious surface.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.161 ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Modular structures. Any modular structure intended for nonresidential
use or purpose(s) shall meet the following standards.
      (1)   The structure shall have masonry underpinning that is continuous,
permanent, and unpierced except for ventilation and access.
      (2)   Evergreen plantings shall be installed, along the front property
line and all property lines visible from the public right(s)-of-way, within
five feet of the perimeter of the structure, spaced at a minimum of one
planting every five feet.
   (B)   Manufactured homes used for nonresidential purposes. Manufactured
homes are constructed to federal standards rather than the North Carolina State
Building Code; therefore use of manufactured homes without modification for
purposes other than a single-family dwelling unit is prohibited.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.162 OTHER IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Recreation and park development. All residential subdivisions and
developments, except minor subdivisions, shall provide funds to the county
whereby the county may acquire public recreation and park land or areas to
serve the development or subdivision in the immediate area.
      (1)   The amount of such fee shall be the product of the total number of
dwelling units and/or building lots located in the development or subdivision
multiplied by the recreation fee as established by the Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   The fee shall be paid prior to approval of a final plat for the
subdivision, provided that payments may be phased in accordance with the
approved phasing of the subdivision.
      (3)   The county may transfer funds paid by one or more subdivisions to a
municipality or make arrangements for the joint county/municipal expenditure of
the funds where the county determines that such transfer or arrangements would
better ensure the funds will be used to acquire public recreation and park
areas that will serve the recreational needs of the development and
developments in the immediate area.
      (4)   In situations where a development has already been approved prior
to the adoption of the Harnett County Bicycle, Pedestrian, and Greenway Plan,
the developer may choose to build the prescribed facility in place of paying
all or a portion of the above described recreation fee. If it is desirable to
provide for such improvements, this discussion and review shall be conducted by
the Development Review Board and any of its advisory members, as per policy and
standards set by the Harnett County Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee.
Upon approval, the applicant and the county may enter into a development
agreement as set forth in §
153.137 of this Unified Development Ordinance.
   (B)   Bicycle, pedestrian, and greenway improvements.
      (1)   Purpose and applicability. The Harnett County Bicycle, Pedestrian,
and Greenway Plan is an officially adopted plan addressing short and long range
recreation and transportation needs linking quality of life with land use and
development within Harnett County. For the purpose of this section, it shall be
the responsibility of developer(s) of major subdivisions, multifamily
developments, and nonresidential sites to comply with the Harnett County
Bicycle, Pedestrian, and Greenway Plan.
      (2)   Required improvements. All such development located adjacent to a
route or trail that is included in the county's adopted Bicycle, Pedestrian,
and Greenway Plan, or any other officially adopted plan, shall comply with the
prescribed improvements as indicated within said plan.
   (C)   Monuments and lot corners. All permanent monuments shall be of a type
in compliance with state statutes regulating professional state land surveyors.
All lot corners, other than those marked by permanent monuments as herein
described, shall be marked in a type in compliance with state statutes
regulating professional state land surveyors.
   (D)   Guidelines for handicapped persons. In order to remove restrictive
barriers which severely impede the daily movements of physically handicapped
and elderly persons, the developer shall comply with all requirements of G.S. §
136-44.14.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 6-21-2021)
§ 153.163 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   It is the intent of this chapter that the original developer or any
subsequent developer shall be responsible for the maintenance of all required
improvements until such time as a unit of government, public utility, or other
legal entity assumes responsibility for the maintenance of those improvements.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the developer to complete the
installation of sidewalks, street trees, curb and gutter systems, and any and
all other required improvements. If the installation of these listed amenities
is not complete by the time that the county has issued building permits for 75%
of the lots shown on the record plat within a subdivision, the county shall not
issue any more building permits until the improvements have been completed. The
county shall have the ability to call the improvement guarantee due at this
time to ensure installation of all required improvements. Development of a
subdivision in phases shall be considered on a phase by phase basis. No
building permit shall be issued for single lot development prior to
installation of improvements. In the event that the developer of record has
dissolved, filed for bankruptcy, or executed any other action that would disbar
the developer from continuing such a project, as determined by the Planning
Department, the following shall apply: subsequent individual(s) that own, or
have an interest in lots that are not allowed to obtain permits, may be allowed
to make the necessary improvements on a per street basis, if determined to be
acceptable by NCDOT. Only streets that are contiguous with existing NCDOT
maintenance are eligible for this exception.
   (C)   Contained on the record plat shall be a certification assigned by the
developer and notarized acknowledging that the developer is responsible for the
maintenance of all required improvements until such responsibility is assumed
by a unit of government, public utility, or other legal entity.
   (D)   It shall be the responsibility of the developer to formally notify the
District Engineer from NCDOT and initiate the process of transferring the
responsibility of street maintenance. If the District Engineer or his or her
designee has not recommended that NCDOT accept maintenance responsibility for
the required public street improvements by the time that the county has issued
building permits for 75% of the lots shown on the record plat, the county shall
not issue any more building permits until the District Engineer makes such a
recommendation and formally notifies the Administrator.
   (E)   If all streets within the subdivision have not been accepted by NCDOT
or the appropriate amenities have not been correctly installed by the time at
which building permits have been issued for 75% of the lots, the developer may
post a surety performance bond, provide cash, or an equivalent security. Should
this alternative be used, the method of payment chosen shall be equal to one
and one-quarter times the cost of installing all remaining required
improvements according to the standards required by NCDOT (for roadway
improvements) or a certified engineer (for amenity improvements). Estimates of
costs shall be provided by the developer and verified by the county in
accordance with this section.
   (F)   Within 30 days after the Administrator receives formal notice of
acceptance of the streets by NCDOT, the county shall release any unused portion
of the securities posted through this procedure.
   (G)   For purposes of this chapter, maintenance shall mean that all required
improvements are kept in a good state of repair and that such improvements are
able to be used for their intended purpose without any impediments. In the case
of streets, the developer shall not install or allow to be installed any items
within the right-of-way which will have to be removed prior to the acceptance
of the streets by NCDOT. Such items include, but are not limited to, fences,
masonry mailbox supports, shrubbery, and driveway markers.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 5-18-2015)
§ 153.164 IMPROVEMENT GUARANTEES.
   In lieu of requiring the completion, installation, and dedication of
improvements required as part of development, the county may enter into a
written agreement with the developer(s) whereby the developer(s) shall agree to
complete all required improvements. Once the agreement is signed by both
parties and the security required herein is provided, the development may be
approved by the Development Review Board or other appropriate government body,
if all other requirements of this chapter are met. Improvements required by
state and federal agencies shall not be included as part of any improvement
guarantees provided by the developer(s) to the county. However, the
requirements of these agencies shall have been met prior to approval of a
development. To secure this agreement, the developer(s) shall provide, as
approved by the county, any and all required forms, and either one or a
combination of the following guarantees equal to one and one-quarter times the
entire cost of the improvements secured.
   (A)   Improvements required prior to acceptance of improvement guarantees.
To ensure that adequate measures have been made to provide public safety and
emergency service access to the development, the following improvements shall
have been made by the developer(s), and approved by the county, prior to
acceptance of any improvement guarantee allowed by this section:
      (1)   Permits shall have been issued for the water supply system, with
final approval by NCDENR;
      (2)   Temporary fire protection shall be made available. The appropriate
and required temporary fire protection for each development shall be determined
by the county’s Fire Code Official;
      (3)   Minimum ingress/egress access shall be provided, in compliance with
§
153.151(M)(4); and/or
      (4)   All street sign fees shall have been received by the county.
   (B)   Required estimate for improvement guarantees. A written, itemized
estimate shall be provided by a third-party, industry expert in the field in
which the guarantees are being provided for. The county may require that
additional estimates be provided. All estimates shall be sealed.
   (C)   Surety performance bond(s). The developer shall obtain a performance
bond(s) from a surety bonding company authorized to do business in the state
and approved by the county. The bond shall be payable to the county and shall
be in an amount equal to one and one-quarter times the entire cost, as
estimated by the developer and verified by the county, of installing all
required improvements. The duration of the bond(s) shall be until such time as
the improvements are accepted by the county. Any expenses associated with the
cost verification by the county shall be paid entirely by the developer.
   (D)   Cash, letter of credit, or equivalent security. The developer shall
deposit cash, an irrevocable letter of credit, or other instrument readily
convertible into cash at face value with the county. The use of any instrument
other than cash shall be subject to the approval of the county. The amount of
deposit shall be equal to one and one-quarter times the entire cost, as
estimated by the developer, and verified by the county, of installing all
required improvements.
   (E)   Improvement guarantee review process. The Planning Department shall
provide required forms and documents to be used as part of a completed
application to provide improvement guarantees. A minimum 10-day review period
shall begin once a completed application has been submitted, including required
forms and estimates. All applicable county departments, including, but not
limited to, the County Engineer and Legal Services, shall review all
improvement guarantee applications prior to approval.
   (F)   Default. Upon default, meaning failure on the part of the developer to
complete the required improvements in the time allowed by this chapter or as
spelled out in the performance bond or security agreement, then the surety, or
financial institution holding the account, shall, if requested by the county,
pay all or any portion of the bond or security to the county up to the amount
needed to complete the improvements based on an estimate by the county. Upon
payment, the county, in its discretion, may expend such portion of the funds as
it deems necessary to complete all or any portion of the required improvements.
The county shall return to the developer any funds not spent in completing the
improvements.
   (G)   Release of guarantee security. The county may release all or a portion
of any security posted as the improvements are completed and recommended for
approval by the Administrator, after receiving a written request. The
Administrator shall approve or disapprove the request within 30 days. When the
county approves the improvements, it shall immediately release the portion of
the security posted which covers the cost of the improvements approved. In the
instance when a reduction in the improvement guarantee is being requested, the
required process for improvement guarantee approvals shall begin again for the
remaining portion to be held in guarantee. The developer(s) shall provide an
affidavit stating that all subcontractors have been paid for the portion to be
reduced.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
HISTORIC PRESERVATION
§ 153.175 GENERAL.
   The purpose and intent of the historic preservation regulations are to
safeguard the heritage of the county by preserving important elements of our
cultural, social, economic, and political, or architectural history, in order
to promote the use and conservation of such property for the education,
pleasure, and enrichment of the residents of the county and the state as a
whole.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.176 HISTORIC LANDMARKS.
   (A)   Adoption of a designation resolution. Upon compliance with the
procedures set out in division (D) below, the Board of Commissioners may adopt
and, quarterly, amend or repeal a designation resolution of one or more
historic landmarks. The designation resolution shall include information which
shall:
      (1)   List the name(s) of the owner(s) of the property;
      (2)   Describe each property in the designation resolution, including the
approximate area (size) of the property so designated;
      (3)   Describe those elements of the property that are integral to its
historical, prehistorical, architectural, archaeological, and/or cultural
significance;
      (4)   Provide for each designated historic landmark, a suitable sign or
plaque indicating that the landmark has been so designated; and
      (5)   Any other information the Historical Properties Commission (HPC)
and/or Board of Commissioners deems necessary within the authority of this
subchapter and the general statutes.
   (B)   Criteria for designation. In order for any building, structure, site,
area, or object to be designated in a resolution as a historic landmark, the
HPC must find that the property is of special significance in terms of its
history, prehistory, architecture, archaeology and/or cultural importance, and
that it possesses integrity of design, setting, workmanship, materials, feeling
and/or association.
   (C)   Inventory. The HPC shall use an inventory of buildings, structures,
sites, areas, or objects of historical, prehistorical, architectural, and
archaeological significance in the county as a guide to the identification,
assessment, and designation of historic landmarks. The HPC shall update the
inventory quarterly.
   (D)   Required procedures for designation. The Board of Commissioners may
not adopt or amend a resolution, designating a historic building, structure,
site, area, or object, or acquire any landmark, until the steps prescribed by
this subchapter and its subsections have been taken, including rules of
procedure and guidelines for the altering, restoring, moving, or demolishing
properties designated as historic. Designation procedures may be initiated by
the HPC or at the request of property owner(s) or his or her duly authorized
agent.
      (1)   Submittal of application. An application for a designation shall be
obtained from and, when completed, filed with the Planning Department.
Applications for designation shall be considered by the HPC at its next
regularly scheduled meeting, provided they have been filed, complete in form
and content, at least 15 working days before the meeting; otherwise
consideration shall be deferred until the following meeting.
      (2)   Contents of application. The HPC shall, by uniform rule in its
rules of procedure, require information as is reasonably necessary to determine
the nature of the application. An application for a designation shall not be
considered complete until the required information is included. An incomplete
application shall not be accepted. Nothing shall prevent the applicant(s) from
filing with the application additional relevant information bearing on the
application.
      (3)   Designation reports. The HPC shall make, or cause to be made, an
investigation and report that includes all the information contained in this
section. Applications prepared by property owner(s) will be judged by the same
criteria as those prepared by the HPC.
         (a)   The name(s) of the property to be considered for designation;
both common and historic names, if they can be determined;
         (b)   The name(s) and address of the current property owner(s);
         (c)   The location of the property proposed to be designated historic,
including the street address, Harnett County tax map and parcel numbers and/or
the parcel identification number;
         (d)   The date of construction and of any later alterations, if any,
if they can be determined;
         (e)   An assessment of the significance of the site or structure
pursuant to division (B) above;
         (f)   An architectural and/or archaeological description of the area
of the site or structure proposed to be designated. If outbuildings or other
appurtenant features are proposed to be designated, the report shall contain a
description of those features;
         (g)   A historical discussion of the site or structure within its
type, period and locality;
         (h)   A photograph, current and historic if available, that clearly
depicts the property proposed to be designated and supplementary photographs
showing facades, details and site layout; and
         (i)   A map showing the location of the property, including any
outbuildings and appurtenant features.
      (4)   Review guidelines. Prior to the designation of any historic
landmark or district, the HPC shall prepare and adopt guidelines, not
inconsistent with the state general statutes for altering, restoring, moving,
or demolishing of property designated as historic. It is the intention of these
guidelines to ensure, insofar as possible, that changes in designated landmarks
or properties located within designated districts shall be in harmony with the
reasons for designation.
      (5)   Review by the North Carolina Department of Cultural Resources
(NCDCR), Division of Archives and History. A report accepted by the HPC shall
be submitted to the NCDCR, Division of Archives and History or its successor
agency, for comments pursuant to state general statutes, as amended from time
to time. The NCDCR, Division of Archives and History or its successor agency,
acting through the State Historic Preservation Officer, shall, either at their
own request or at the initiative of the HPC, be given an opportunity to review
and comment upon the substance and effect of the designation of any landmark
pursuant to this subchapter.
      (6)   Consideration of the report. Once the designation report has been
prepared, either by the HPC or by the property owner(s), and is deemed by the
Planning Department to meet the provisions of division (D)(1), the HPC shall
consider the report. The HPC may accept it, amend it, reject it, or recommend
further study. Prior to final action on a designation report, the HPC shall
indicate the extent to which the landmark meets the criteria for designation in
division (B) above. The HPC should consider any comments received in writing
from the NCDCR, Division of Archives and History or its successor agency. If
the NCDCR, Division of Archives and History does not submit its written
comments or recommendations in connection with any proposed designation within
30 days following receipt of the report, the HPC and Board of Commissioners
shall be relieved of any responsibility to consider such comments. After the
expiration of the 30-day comment period given the NCDCR, Division of Archives
and History, the HPC may recommend to the Board of Commissioners that the
property be designated as a historic landmark.
      (7)   Submission to the Board of Commissioners. The HPC shall forward its
recommendation to the Board of Commissioners. The HPC shall submit a copy of
the designation report, any written comments received from the NCDCR, Division
of Archives and History, and, if the recommendation is for approval, a proposed
designation resolution, to the Board of Commissioners.
      (8)   Public hearing. When a proposed designation resolution is
submitted, the HPC and the Board of Commissioners shall hold a joint public
hearing or separate public hearings on the proposed designation resolution. The
HPC shall send a notification letter, including time and place, to property
owners adjacent to the subject property. It is recommended, but not required,
that the HPC also post a notification sign on the subject property and publish
notice in a local periodical.
      (9)   Adoption of a designation resolution. Following the required public
hearing, the Board of Commissioners shall consider the designation report, the
HPC's recommendation, the NCDCR, Division of Archives and History's comments,
and the comments made at the public hearing, and may adopt the designation
resolution as proposed, adopt it with amendments, or reject the resolution.
   (E)   Actions subsequent to approval. Upon adoption of the resolution:
      (1)   Planning Department shall send the owner(s) of the landmark, as
identified by current tax records, written notice of such designation of
adoption of the resolution by certified mail, return receipt requested.
      (2)   The HPC shall file one copy of the resolution and any subsequent
amendments thereto, in the office of the Register of Deeds of Harnett County.
The Register of Deeds shall index each historic landmark according to the name
of the owner(s) in the grantee and grantor indexes.
      (3)   All tax maps maintained by Harnett County shall clearly indicate
the designation of a building, structure, site, area, or object as a historic
landmark for as long as the designation remains in effect.
      (4)   The Planning Department shall notify the tax assessor of Harnett
County of the landmark designation. The assessor shall consider the designation
and any recorded restriction on the landmark in appraising it for tax purposes.
   (F)   Denied applications. If the Board of Commissioners denies a
designation report, a copy of the minutes of the public hearing at which such a
decision to deny the report was made, shall be mailed to the owner(s) of the
property proposed for designation, as requested.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 6-21-2021; Ord. 2023-27, passed 12-18-
2023)
§ 153.177 HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Adoption of a designation resolution. No historic district may exist
without a resolution designating it as such. Upon compliance with the
procedures contained in division (D) below, the Board of Commissioners within
its jurisdiction, may adopt and, quarterly, amend or repeal a resolution
designating one or more historic districts.
   (B)   Criteria for designation. In order for any area to be designated in a
resolution as a historic district, the Historic Properties Commission (HPC)
must find that the area is of special significance in terms of its history,
prehistory, architecture, archaeology and/or cultural importance, and that it
possesses integrity of design, setting, workmanship, materials, feeling, and/or
association.
   (C)   Inventory. The HPC shall use an inventory of buildings, structures,
sites, areas, or objects of historical, prehistorical, architectural, and
archaeological significance in the county as a guide for the identification,
assessment, and designation of historic districts. The HPC shall update the
inventory quarterly.
   (D)   Required procedures for designation. The Board of Commissioners may
not adopt or amend a resolution designating a historic district, nor may the
Board of Commissioners or the HPC accept any district until the steps
prescribed by this section have been taken.
      (1)   Designation report. The HPC shall prepare or review an
investigation and report describing the significance of the buildings,
structure, features, sites, or surroundings included in any such proposed
district, and the description of the boundaries of such district. Such report
shall be referred to the Board of Commissioners and the Planning Department for
its review and comment according to procedures set forth in the Harnett County
Zoning Ordinance.
      (2)   Review by the North Carolina Department of Cultural Resources
(NCDCR), Division of Archives and History. All designation reports shall be
submitted to the NCDCR, Division of Archive and History by the HPC. The NCDCR,
Division of Archives and History or its successor agency, acting through the
State Historic Preservation Officer, shall, either upon their own request or at
the initiative of the HPC, be given an opportunity to review and comment upon
the substance and effect of the designation of any district. If the NCDCR,
Division of Archives and History does not submit its written comments or
recommendations in connection with any proposed designation within 30 days
following receipt of the report, the HPC and the Board of Commissioners shall
be relieved of any responsibility to consider such comments. After the
expiration of the 30-day comment period given the NCDCR, Division of Archives
and History, the HPC may recommend to the Board of Commissioners that the area
be designated as a historic district.
      (3)   Review by other groups. The Board of Commissioners may also, in its
discretion, refer the designation report and proposed boundaries to any local
preservation commission or other interested body for its recommendations prior
to taking action to adopt or amend the designation resolution.
      (4)   Adoption of a designation resolution. On receipt of these reports
and recommendations, the Board of Commissioners may proceed in the same manner
as would otherwise be required for the adoption or amendment of any appropriate
zoning ordinance provisions.
   (E)   Revisions to districts. With respect to any changes in the boundaries
of an adopted historic district subsequent to its initial establishment, the
requirements and procedures contained in this section shall apply.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Ord. 2023-27, passed 12-18-2023)
§ 153.178 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   Rules and regulations.
      (1)   Development restriction. From and after the designation of a
historic landmark or district, no exterior portion of any building or other
structure (including masonry walls, fences, light fixtures, steps and pavement,
or other appurtenant features), nor above-ground utility structure nor any type
of outdoor advertising sign shall be erected, altered, restored, moved, or
demolished on such landmark or within such district until after an application
for a certificate of appropriateness as to exterior features has been submitted
to and approved by the Historic Properties Commission (HPC). A certificate of
appropriateness shall be required whether or not a building permit is required.
      (2)   Exterior features. For purposes of this subchapter “exterior
features” shall include the architectural style, general design, and general
arrangement of the exterior of a building or other structure, including the
kind and texture of the building material, the size and scale of the building
or other structure, and the type and style of all windows, doors, light
fixtures, signs, and other appurtenant fixtures. In the case of outdoor
advertising signs, “exterior features” shall mean the style, material, size,
and location of all such signs. In adopting a resolution, establishing a
historic district, the Board of Commissioners may provide that “exterior
features” also include historic signs, color, and significant landscape,
archaeological, and natural features of the area.
      (3)   Building permit restriction. In adopting a resolution establishing
a historic district, the county shall provide that no building permit or other
permit granted for the purposes of constructing, altering, moving, or
demolishing structures shall be issued unless the HPC has first issued a
certificate of appropriateness authorizing the construction, alteration,
moving, restoration, or demolition. Any building permit or such other permit
not issued in conformity with this section shall be invalid. In approving a
certificate of appropriateness, the HPC may attach reasonable conditions
necessary to carry out the purposes of this subchapter.
      (4)   Protection of character. The HPC shall take no action under this
section except to prevent the construction, reconstruction, alteration,
restoration, moving, or demolition of buildings, structures, appurtenant
fixtures, outdoor advertising signs, or other significant features which would
be incongruous with the special character of the landmark or district.
   (B)   Review guidelines. The HPC shall review the established guidelines
prepared during the designation resolution process for the subject property. It
is the intention of these guidelines to ensure, insofar as possible, that
changes in designated landmarks or properties located within designated
districts shall be in harmony with the reasons for designation.
   (C)   Administrative approval for minor works allowed. The Planning
Department may issue a certificate of appropriateness for minor works, as
listed in the HPC's rules of procedure. Minor work shall include and are
defined as those exterior changes that do not involve substantial alterations,
additions, or removals that could impair the integrity of the property and/or
district as a whole. No application for a minor works certificate of
appropriateness may be denied without formal action by the HPC.
   (D)   Limitations on interior review. Notwithstanding this subchapter,
jurisdiction of the HPC over interior spaces shall be limited to specific
interior features of architectural, artistic, or historical significance in
publicly owned landmarks, and of privately owned historic landmarks for which
consent for interior review has been given by the owner(s). If an owner's
consent for interior review has been filed with the Register of Deeds of
Harnett County and indexed according to the name of the owner(s) of the
property in the grantee and grantor indexes, such consent shall bind future
owners and/or successors in title. The designation resolution establishing the
historic designation shall specify the interior features to be reviewed and the
specific nature of the HPC's jurisdiction over those features.
   (E)   Certain changes not prohibited. Nothing in this subchapter shall be
construed to prevent the ordinary maintenance or repair of any exterior
architectural feature of a historic landmark or property located within a
district that does not involve a change in design, material, or outer
appearance thereof. Nor shall this subchapter be construed to prevent the
construction, reconstruction, alteration, restoration, moving, or demolition of
any such feature when a building inspector or similar county official certifies
to the HPC that such action is required for the public safety because of an
unsafe or dangerous condition. Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent the
property owner(s) from making any use of his or her property not prohibited by
other statutes, ordinances, or regulations. Nothing in this subchapter shall be
construed to prevent the maintenance of or, in the event of an emergency,
immediate restoration of any existing above-ground utility structure without
approval by the HPC.
   (F)   Delay in demolition of designated properties. Except as provided
below, the HPC may not deny an application for certificate of appropriateness
authorizing the demolition of a designated historic landmark or property
located within a district. However, the HPC may delay the effective date of
such a certificate for a period of up to 365 days from the date of approval.
The HPC may reduce the period of delay where it finds that the owner(s) would
suffer extreme hardship or be permanently deprived of all beneficial use of or
return from such property by virtue of the delay. During such period, the HPC
may negotiate with the owner and with any other parties in an effort to find a
means of preserving the property, as provided in §
153.282. The HPC may deny an application for a certificate of appropriateness
authorizing the demolition or destruction of a building, site, or structure
determined by the State Historic Preservation Office to have statewide
significance, as defined in the criteria of the National Register of Historic
Places, unless the HPC finds that the owner(s) would suffer extreme hardship or
be permanently deprived of all beneficial use or return by virtue of the
denial. If the HPC has voted to recommend designation of a property as a
landmark or designation of an area as a district, and final designation has not
been made by the Board of Commissioners, the demolition or destruction of any
building, site, or structure located on the property of the proposed landmark
or in the proposed district may be delayed by the HPC for a period of up to 180
days or until the Board of Commissioners takes action on the designation,
whichever occurs first. Should the Board of Commissioners approve the
designation prior to the expiration of the 180-day delay period, an application
for a certificate of appropriateness for demolition must then be filed;
however, the maximum delay period of 365 days shall be reduced by the period of
delay while the designation was pending.
   (G)   Demolition by neglect. Demolition by neglect of any designated
historic landmark or property located within a district shall constitute a
violation of this subchapter. The Board of Commissioners and/or HPC with the
expressed consent of the Board of Commissioners may take appropriate actions to
prevent demolition by neglect, provided such actions include appropriate
safeguards to protect the property owner(s) from undue economic hardship.
   (H)   Required procedures.
      (1)   Submittal of application. An application for a certificate of
appropriateness shall be obtained from and, when completed, filed with the
Planning Department. Applications for certificates of appropriateness shall be
considered by the HPC at its next regularly scheduled meeting, provided they
have been filed, complete in form and content, at least 15 working days before
the meeting; otherwise consideration shall be deferred until the following
meeting.
      (2)   Contents of application. The HPC shall, by uniform rule in its
rules of procedure, require information as is reasonably necessary to determine
the nature of the application. An application for a certificate of
appropriateness shall not be considered complete until the required information
is included. An incomplete application shall not be accepted. Nothing shall
prevent the applicant(s) from filing with the application additional relevant
information bearing on the application.
      (3)   Notification of affected property owners. Before considering an
application for a certificate of appropriateness, the HPC shall notify by mail
the owner(s) of any adjacent property. The mailed
notices are for the convenience of the property owner(s) and occupant(s) and
any defect or omission therein shall not impair the validity of issuing a
certificate of appropriateness, or any following action.
      (4)   Public hearing. When considering an application, the HPC shall give
the applicant(s) and stakeholder(s) of any property likely to be materially
affected by the application, an opportunity to be heard at a public hearing.
      (5)   Reasons for HPC's actions to appear in minutes. The HPC shall cause
to be entered into the minutes of its meeting the reasons for its actions,
whether it be approval, approval with modifications, deferral or denial. The
minutes shall also contain a summary of any citation to the evidence,
testimony, studies, or other authority upon which it based its decision.
      (6)   HPC action on application. When considering the application, the
HPC shall apply the review guidelines required by §
153.007, and shall, before final action on the application, make findings of
fact indicating the extent to which the application is or is not in compliance
with the review criteria. The HPC's action on the application shall be
approval, approval with modifications, deferral, or disapproval.
      (7)   Time limits. If the HPC fails to take final action upon any
application within 180 days from the date the complete application is filed
with the Planning Department, the application shall be deemed to be approved as
submitted. This time period may be extended to an exact date upon mutual
agreement between the HPC and the applicant(s). A certificate of
appropriateness shall expire 180 days after the date of issuance, or in the
case of a demolition certificate of appropriateness, the effective date, if the
work authorized by the certificate has not been commenced. If the work has been
discontinued for a period of 365 days after commencement, the certificate shall
immediately expire.
      (8)   Submission of new application. If the HPC denies a certificate of
appropriateness, a new application affecting the same property may be submitted
only if substantial change is made in plans for the proposed construction,
reconstruction, alteration, restoration, or moving.
      (9)   Appeals of the HPC's decision. An appeal may be made to the Harnett
County Board of Adjustment regarding the HPC's action in approving or denying
any application for a certificate of appropriateness. Written notice of intent
to appeal must be sent to the HPC, postmarked within 20 days following the
HPC's decision, unless oral notice of appeal is made to the HPC during the
meeting at which the decision is rendered. Appeals must be filed with the
Harnett County Board of Adjustment within 60 days following the Commission's
decision. Appeals shall be in the nature of certiorari. The Board of
Adjustment's decision in any such case may be appealed to the Superior Court of
Harnett County.
   (I)   Publicly owned buildings and structures. Designated historic
buildings, structures, sites, areas, or objects in the HPC's jurisdiction owned
by state or any of its political subdivisions, agencies, or instrumentalities
shall be subject to the regulations imposed by this ordinance, in accordance
with state general statutes.
   (J)   Remedies. In case any building, structure, site, area, or object
designated a historic landmark or any property located within a historic
district is about to be demolished as the result of deliberate neglect or
otherwise, materially altered, remodeled, constructed, or removed, except in
compliance with this subchapter, the Board of Commissioners, the HPC, or other
party aggrieved by such action may institute any appropriate action or
proceedings to prevent such unlawful demolition, material alteration,
remodeling, or removal, to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or to
prevent any illegal act or conduct with respect to such historic property.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 6-21-2021; Ord. 2023-27, passed 12-18-
2023)
AIRPORT HEIGHT CONTROL
§ 153.190 GENERAL.
   (A)   Application of the height control regulations.
      (1)   New uses or construction. After March 16, 1998, all new
construction or use of land shall conform to the height requirements for the
district in which it is to be located.
      (2)   Existing conforming situations. After March 16, 1998, land or
structures which then conform to the regulations for the district in which it
is located, may be continued, provided that any structural alterations or
change in use shall conform with the regulations herein specified.
      (3)   Existing nonconforming situations. After March, 16, 1998, pre-
existing lots, or structures which would be prohibited under the regulations
for the district in which it is located shall be considered as nonconforming.
Nonconforming structures or uses may be continued, provided they conform to the
provisions of this section.
   (B)   Use restrictions. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
chapter, no use may be made of land or water within any airport zone
established by this section in such a manner as to create electrical
interference with navigational signals or radio communication between the
airport and aircraft, make it difficult for pilots to distinguish between
airport lights and others, result in glare in the eyes of pilots using the
airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport, create bird strike
hazards, or otherwise in any way endanger or interfere with the landing,
takeoff, or maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport. The owner of
any existing nonconforming structure or tree or other vegetation is required to
permit the installation, operation, and maintenance thereon of such markers and
lights as shall be deemed necessary by the county’s Airport Administrator to
indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport the
presence of such airport obstruction. Such markers and lights shall be
installed, operated, and maintained at the expense of the county.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.191 AIRPORT ZONES.
   (A)   In order to carry out the provisions of this section, there are hereby
created and established certain airport zones which include all of the land
lying beneath the approach surfaces, transitional surfaces, horizontal
surfaces, and conical surfaces as they apply to Harnett County Airport. Such
zones are shown on the “Harnett County Airport Height Control Map”.
   (B)   An area located in more than one of the following airport zones is
considered to be only in the airport zone with the more restrictive height
limitation.
   (C)   The various zones are established and defined as follows:
      (1)   Nonprecision instrument approach zone (for runway larger than
utility with a visibility minimum greater than three-fourths of a mile). The
inner edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary
surface and is 500 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a
width of 3,500 feet at a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet from the primary
surface. Its centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
      (2)   Transitional zones. The transitional zones are the areas beneath
the transitional surfaces.
      (3)   Horizontal zone. The horizontal zone is established by swinging
arcs of 10,000 feet from the center of each end of the primary surface of each
runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines tangent to those arcs.
The horizontal zone does not include the approach and transitional zones.
      (4)   Conical zone. The conical zone is established as the area that
commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward and
upward there from form a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.192 AIRPORT ZONE HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no structure shall be
erected, altered, or maintained, and no tree shall be allowed to grow in any
airport zone created by this section to a height in excess of the applicable
height limit herein established for such zone.
   (B)   Such applicable height limitations are established for each of the
zones in question as follows:
      (1)   Nonprecision instrument approach zone (for runway larger than
utility with a visibility minimum greater than three-fourths of a mile). Slopes
34 feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same
elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of
10,000 feet along the extended runway centerline;
      (2)   Precision instrument runway approach zone. Runway having an
existing instrument procedure utilizing an Instrument Land System (ILS) or a
Precision Approach Radar (PAR);
      (3)   Transitional zones. Slopes seven feet outward for each foot upward
beginning at the sides of, and at the same elevation as, the primary surface
and the approach surface, and extending to a height of 150 feet above the
airport elevation, which is 199 feet above mean sea level. In addition to the
foregoing, there are established height limits sloping seven feet outward for
each foot upward beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the
approach surface, and extending to where they intersect the conical surface;
      (4)   Horizontal zone. Established at 150 feet above the airport
elevation or at a height of 349 feet above mean sea level;
      (5)   Conical zone. Slopes 20 feet outward for each foot upward beginning
at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at 150 feet above the airport
elevation and extending to a height of 350 feet above the airport elevation
(549 feet above mean sea level); and
      (6)   Excepted height limitations. Nothing in this section shall be
construed as prohibiting the construction or maintenance of any structure, or
growth of any tree to a height up to 50 feet above the surface of the land.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.193 PERMITS.
   (A)   Future uses. Except as specifically provided in divisions (A)(1) and
(A)(2) below, no material change shall be made in the use of land which results
in creation of an aviation hazard, no structure shall be erected or otherwise
established, and no tree shall be planted in any airport zone hereby created
unless a permit therefore shall have been applied for and granted. Each
application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for which the permit is
desired, with sufficient particularity to permit it to be determined whether
the resulting use, structure, or tree would conform to the regulations herein
prescribed. If such determination is in the affirmative, the permit shall be
granted. No permit for a use inconsistent with the provisions of this section
shall be granted unless a variance has been approved in accordance with this
chapter.
      (1)   In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and
conical zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than
75 feet of vertical height above the ground, except when because of terrain,
land contour, or topographic features, such tree or structure would extend
above the height limits prescribed for such zones.
      (2)   In areas lying within the limits of the approach zones, but at a
horizontal distance of not less than 5,300 feet from each end of the runway, no
permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than 75 feet of
vertical height above the ground, except when such tree or structure would
extend above the height limit prescribed for such approach zones.
      (3)   In the areas lying within the limits of the transition zones beyond
the perimeter of the horizontal zone, no permit shall be required for any tree
or structure less than 75 feet of vertical height above the ground, except when
such tree or structure, because of terrain, land contour, or topographic
features, would extend above the height limit prescribed for such transition
zones.
      (4)   Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be
construed as permitting or intending to permit any construction, alteration of
any structure, or growth of any tree in excess of any of the height limits
established by this section except as set forth in §
153.192(B)(6).
   (B)   Existing uses. No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an obstruction or permit a nonconforming use,
structure, or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on
the March 16, 1998 or any amendments thereto or than it is when the application
for a permit is made. Except as indicated, all applications for such a permit
shall be granted.
   (C)   Nonconforming uses abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the Airport
Administrator determines that a nonconforming tree or structure has been
abandoned or more than 80% torn down (or damaged more than 80% of the current
county tax value), physically deteriorated, or decayed, no permit shall be
granted that would allow such structure or tree to exceed the applicable height
limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning regulations.
   (D)   Variances. Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use property, not in accordance
with the regulations prescribed in this section, may apply to the Board of
Adjustment for a variance from such regulations in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The procedure for application and review of
variance requests can be found in §§
153.300 through 153.304.
   (E)   Obstruction marking and lighting. Any permit or variance granted may,
if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this chapter
and be reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the
owner of the structure or tree in question to install, operate, and maintain,
at the owner’s expense, such markings and lights as may be necessary. If deemed
proper by the Board of Adjustment, this condition may be modified to require
the owner to permit the county, at its own expense, to install, operate, and
maintain the necessary markings and lights.
   (F)   Airport zone disclosure statement. The following statement shall be
included on all development related plats/plans for those properties located in
“Airport Zones”, as described in §
153.191. In no case shall a permit be issued for a plat/plan unless such
statement is included thereon.
 
“All or a portion of property shown on this plat/plan is within a Harnett County
Regional Jetport Airport Zone, subject to the height requirements for such
zones, as regulated by the Harnett County Unified Development Ordinance.”
 
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
NATURAL RESOURCES
§ 153.205 GENERAL.
   In addition to the regulations contained in this subchapter, all other
local, state, and federal requirements regarding natural resources shall be
met, including those of the North Carolina Department of Environment and
Natural Resources and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Below is a table
illustrating important regulations regarding stormwater and other natural
resource controls.
 
Location                  Regulation, Law, or        Buffer Requirements
                          Ordinance
High quality waters       15A NCAC 02H .1006         30-foot wide stream buffer
                          North Carolina Session Law Built-upon areas to be
All areas of the county   2006-246, Section 9.       located at least 30-feet
outside the watershed     Proposed amendments and    landward of all perennial
protection area or high   rule adoptions to 15A NCAC and intermittent surface
quality waters            2H .0100 and 2H .1000      waters.
                          incorporate S.L. 2006-246.
                                                     Within the WS-IV-PA
                                                     Watershed District, a
                                                     minimum of a 100-foot
                                                     stream buffer for
                                                     development activities
                                                     that exceed the low
Watershed protection area Chapter 153 of this code   density standards as
                                                     established in this
                                                     chapter is required;
                                                     otherwise, a minimum of
                                                     30-foot stream buffer is
                                                     required in the Watershed
                                                     District.
                                                     Single-family dwelling
                                                     yard adjacent to surface
                                                     water:
Conservation zoning                                  Minimum Yard for Cape
district                  Chapter 153 of this code   Fear: 250 ft.
                                                     Minimum Yard for Black
                                                     River: 150 ft.
                                                     Minimum Yard for Other
                                                     Creeks: 100 ft.
 
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.206 STANDARDS FOR EFFLUENT AND EMISSIONS.
   All effluent and emissions into the air, surface, or groundwaters from
development permitted by this chapter shall be in conformity with applicable
federal, state, or county health and environmental quality regulations.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.207 SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL.
   (A)   The developer(s) shall cause all grading, excavations, open cuts, side
slopes, and other land surface disturbances to be so mulched, seeded, sodded,
or otherwise protected that erosion, siltation, sedimentation, and washing are
prevented in accordance with plans and specifications and within such time
periods approved by the DRB.
   (B)   Where applicable, erosion and sedimentation control provisions shall
be in conformity with the appropriate state regulations.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
§ 153.220 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these requirements is to provide criteria in addition to
other ordinances, rules, regulation, and law to control and minimize the
adverse impacts of stormwater runoff from new development and redevelopment.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.221 APPLICABILITY.
   Development shall comply with the requirements of this section if any:
   (A)   New residential or nonresidential development or redevelopment
disturbs more than one acre of land; and/or
   (B)   Nonresidential development that adds more than 22,000 square feet of
disturbed area.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.222 GENERAL.
   (A)   For areas inside the water supply watershed, development shall be in
accordance with §§
153.260 through 153.262. For areas of the county that are within one mile of
and drain to waters classified as High Quality Waters, development shall be in
accordance with 15A NCAC 02H .1006.
   (B)   All other areas of the county are subject to Phase II Post-
Construction Stormwater Requirements as established in North Carolina Session
Law 2006-246. A stormwater permit issued by North Carolina Department of
Environment and Natural Resources (NCDENR), Division of Water Quality is
required for new development and redevelopment activities that will result in a
cumulative disturbance of one or more acres of land.
   (C)   This section outlines stormwater requirements for new development and
redevelopment. Redevelopment is defined as any development on previously-
developed land, other than a rebuilding activity that results in no net
increase in built-upon area and provides equal or greater stormwater control
than the previous development. The requirements of this section are not
intended to modify or repeal any other ordinance, rule, regulation, or other
provision of law. The requirements of this section are in addition to the
requirements of any other ordinance, rule, regulation, or other provision of
law. For additional information, please see NCDENR’s Stormwater BMP Manual.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.223 PREDEVELOPMENT CONFERENCE.
   (A)   Prior to submission of a conceptual plan, the Developer shall consult
with the following to determine if an initial conference will be necessary:
      (1)   County Engineer; and
      (2)   Planning Department.
   (B)   If the scope of the proposed development, in the opinion of the County
Engineer or Planning Department, is such that an initial conference will be
beneficial prior to the development of plans and specifications, the developer
or his or her engineer shall present, at the time of this conference,
conceptual schematic or layout of the proposed stormwater management system.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.224 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT STATEMENT.
   (A)   A preliminary subdivision plat or site plan (except for minor site
plans as defined by this chapter) for a commercial or residential subdivision
shall include a stormwater management statement, submitted as part of the
required conceptual plan.
   (B)   A stormwater management statement shall include the following:
      (1)   Development name and location;
      (2)   Developer/owner and consultant contact information;
      (3)   Site description including the following:
         (a)   Vicinity map;
         (b)   USGS Topographic Map and the county’s Soil Survey indicating
area of development; and
         (c)   Description of all water courses, impoundments, and wetlands on
or adjacent to the site or into which stormwater directly flows.
      (4)   Statement noting whether the site is located within the
conservation zoning or a watershed district;
      (5)   Impervious area calculations;
      (6)   A description of the proposed stormwater management system
including:
         (a)   Best Management Practices (BMPs) and preliminary sizes and
locations, including post development drainage map delineating the flows
diverted to each BMP;
         (b)   Description and concept for diversion of off-site stormwater;
and
         (c)   Pre-development and post-development discharges for the 10-year
and 25-year storms. If the increase in the pre-development discharge is less
than 10%, then an additional may not be required unless deemed necessary by the
DRB.
      (7)   Downstream analysis, if required:
         (a)   Provide topography with the following identified:
            1.   Drainage areas for the development;
            2.   Drainage areas for downstream drainage structures; and/or
            3.   Provide photographs of downstream structures.
         (b)   For existing streams and ditches, the analysis should focus on
increases in velocity and flooding within the stream;
         (c)   For existing culverts, the analysis should focus on increases in
headwater and flooding at the structure;
         (d)   Identify the point at which the drainage area of the development
or redevelopment becomes less than 10% of the total watershed;
         (e)   All negative impacts of existing improvements and developments
shall be identified, if there are no negative impacts, the analysis
specifically state and demonstrate that there are not adverse impacts in the
increase in site runoff; and
         (f)   If downstream measures are found to be inadequate, detention or
other improvements will be required to minimize downstream impacts.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.225 STREAM BUFFERS/SETBACKS.
   Stream buffers/setbacks shall be required water features as noted in the
following table:
 
Location                                  Regulation, Law, or Ordinance
High quality waters                       15A NCAC 02H .1006
All areas of the county outside the       North Carolina Session Law 2006-246,
watershed protection area or high quality Section 9
waters
Watershed protection area                 §§
                                          153.205 through 153.262
Conservation district                     §§
                                          153.080 through 153.093
 
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.226 STORMWATER CONTROL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All structural stormwater best management practices (BMPs) shall meet
the minimum design requirements of this section, as well as those established
in the most current edition of the North Carolina Department of Environment and
Natural Resources, Division of Water Quality’s Stormwater Best Management
Practices Manual. The use of environmentally friendly water quality controls,
such as storm drain trays and pervious tree surrounds, are encouraged.
   (B)   All structural stormwater BMPs shall be designed to be aesthetically
pleasing or the extent that the BMP type allows, and as defined by compliance
with this chapter, and shall not include fencing unless approved by the County
Engineer. Fencing may be permitted or required due to site conditions and/or
under special circumstances where the public health and safety is a reasonable
concern. The following are examples of site conditions which may necessitate
fencing: within 50 feet of public right(s)-of-way, driveway, or parking area,
and/or if the structural BMP is three or more feet deep.
      (1)   All fences shall meet the requirements of this chapter, as
applicable.
      (2)   In cases where chain link fencing is permitted, such fencing shall
be coated.
   (C)   (1)   Drought tolerant species of vegetation and warm weather grasses
shall be utilized on the BMPs.
      (2)   Vegetation shall be required around perimeter slopes but shall not
be planted on the structural BMP dam.
      (3)   Plantings shall be in a single row when medium sized trees are used
and shall be in two rows when small trees and shrubs are utilized.
   (D)   Side slopes shall be stabilized with vegetation and with a slope no
steeper than 3:1 ratio.
   (E)   As-built drawings shall be submitted to the county for review prior to
issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the site.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.227 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF STORMWATER CONTROL MEASURES.
   (A)   General. When stormwater control measures are installed voluntarily or
are required by this chapter but not by the state, such as through the
downstream analysis process, the following criteria shall be adhered to. As
required by this section, the operation and maintenance agreement shall be
submitted with the final plat or site plan as part of the submittal materials,
as applicable. Failure to comply with the requirements of this section, or
maintain those improvements required by this section, shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Operation and maintenance agreement required. The permit applicant(s)
shall enter into the binding operation and maintenance agreement (O&M
agreement) between all the interests in the development. This Agreement shall
require the owner(s)/applicant(s) to maintain, repair, and if necessary,
reconstruct the stormwater control structure in accordance with the operation
management plan or manual, as provided. The owner(s) shall file the operation
and maintenance agreement with the county’s Register of Deeds. The obligations
incurred as part of the required O&M agreement by owner(s) and applicant(s) are
appurtenant and run with the property, and shall be binding upon all subsequent
owners, successors, and assigns of the project or any parcel thereof.
   (C)   Operation and maintenance plan required. An operation and maintenance
plan or manual shall be provided by the owner(s) for each stormwater control
structure, indicating what operation and maintenance actions are needed, what
specific quantitative criteria will be used for determining when those actions
are to be taken and, consistent with the operations maintenance agreement, who
is responsible for those actions. The plan shall clearly indicate the steps
that will be taken for restoring a stormwater control structure to design
specifications if a failure occurs.
   (D)   Landscaping and grounds maintenance. Landscaping and grounds
management shall be the responsibility of the owner(s). However, vegetation
shall not be established or allowed to mature to the extent that the integrity
of the control structure is diminished or threatened, or to the extent of
interfering with any easement or access to the stormwater control structure.
   (E)   Repair or reconstruction. Except for general landscaping and grounds
management, the owning entity shall notify the county’s Engineer and the
state’s Department of Environment and Natural Resources (NCDENR) prior to any
repair or reconstruction of the stormwater control structure. All improvements
shall be made consistent with the approved plans and specifications of the
stormwater control structure and the operation and maintenance plan or manual.
After notification by the owner(s), the County Engineer shall inspect the
completed improvements and shall inform the owner(s) of any required additions,
changes, or modifications and of the time period to complete the improvements.
   (F)   Amendments to plans and specifications.
      (1)   Minor amendments. Amendments to the plans and specifications of the
stormwater control structure and/or the operation and maintenance plan or
manual shall be approved by the County Engineer, provided that the changes do
not involve a change in the size or location of the structure. Proposed changes
shall be prepared by a professional state engineer or landscape architect (to
the extent that the G.S. Chapter 89A allows) and submitted to and reviewed by
the County Engineer.
         (a)   If the County Engineer approves the proposed changes, the owner
(s) of the stormwater control structure shall file sealed copies of the
revisions with the Administrator and County Engineer.
         (b)   If the County Engineer disapproves the changes, the proposal may
be revised and resubmitted as a new proposal.
      (2)   Major amendments. Proposed changes shall be prepared by a
professional state engineer or landscape architect (to the extent that the G.S.
Chapter 89A allows) and submitted to, and reviewed by the County Engineer and
NCDENR. Amendments to the plans and specifications of the stormwater control
structure and/or the operation and maintenance plan or manual that involve a
change in the size or location shall be approved by the County Engineer and
NCDENR.
   (G)   Revision of plan required if found to be inadequate. If the County
Engineer finds that the operation and maintenance plan or manual is inadequate
for any reason, the Administrator shall notify the owner(s) of any required
changes. Once the revised plan or manual has been deemed adequate, the owner(s)
shall prepare and file copies of the revised agreement with the county’s
Register of Deeds, the County Engineer, and the Administrator of this chapter.
   (H)   Inspection by County Engineer. The stormwater control structure shall
be inspected by the County Engineer, after the owner(s) notifies the
Administrator that all work has been completed and prior to issuance of a
certificate of occupancy (CO). At this inspection, the owner(s) shall provide:
      (1)   The signed deed, related easements, and survey plat for the
stormwater control structure ready for filing with the county’s Register of
Deeds; and
      (2)   A certification sealed by a professional state engineer or
landscape architect (to the extent that the G.S. Chapter 89A allows) stating
that the stormwater control structure is complete and consistent with the
approved plans and specifications.
   (I)   Annual inspection required.
      (1)   All stormwater control structures shall be inspected at least once
on an annual basis to determine whether the controls are performing as designed
and intended. It shall be the responsibility of the property owner(s) to ensure
such inspection is performed. Records of inspections shall be maintained on
forms approved or supplied by NCDENR. Annual inspections shall begin within one
year of the filing date of the deed for the stormwater control structure.
      (2)   In the event that the County Engineer discovers the need for
corrective action or improvements, he or she shall notify the Administrator who
shall notify the owner(s) of the needed improvements and the date by which the
corrective action is to be completed. All improvements shall be made consistent
with the plans and specifications of the stormwater control structure and the
operation plan or manual. After notification by the owner(s), the County
Engineer shall inspect and approve the completed improvements.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.228 STORM DRAINAGE.
   The following guidelines shall be used for street and local drainage within
the development of a subdivision:
   (A)   Proposed stormwater channels shall be designed in accordance with the
most current edition of the North Carolina Erosion and Sediment Control
Planning and Design Manual;
   (B)   Channels shall provide positive drainage. The minimum slope shall be
0.5%;
   (C)   The minimum pipe diameter allowed, including driveway pipe, is 15
inches;
   (D)   Acceptable pipe materials outside of NCDOT right-of-way include Class
III reinforced concrete pipe and HOPE, PASHTO M294 — corrugated exterior/smooth
interior pipe (Type S). No HOPE end treatments are allowed. Reinforced concrete
pipe/headwall shall be used for all end treatments. Pipe shall be installed
according to the manufacturer’s requirements. Corrugated metal pipe is not
allowed. Pipe inside NCDOT right-of-way shall be in accordance with Subdivision
Roads Minimum Construction Standards published by NCDOT;
   (E)   Minimum cover for all pipes located outside traffic areas is one-half
foot. Minimum cover for all pipes located in proposed traffic areas is one
foot;
   (F)   At utility crossings, the minimum vertical separation between storm
drainage and water and sanitary sewer lines shall be 24 inches or in accordance
with 15A NCAC 2T .0305, whichever is more stringent;
   (G)   Storm structures are required where there is a change in pipe size, a
change in grade, or changes in horizontal alignment greater than 45 degrees.
All structures shall allow for access to the storm drainage system with a
removable lid or grate;
   (H)   All local drainage systems shall be designed to convey the ten-year
design storm;
   (I)   The minimum design storm frequency for cross drainage for streets
shall be in accordance with the current edition of Subdivision Roads Minimum
Construction Standards published by NCDOT; and
   (J)   All curb and gutter shall meet NCDOT, Division of Highways standards.
Curb inlet and storm drainage design shall be in accordance with requirements
outlined in NCDOT’s Best Management Practices for Construction and Maintenance
Activities.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.229 CONSTRUCTION PLAN/DRAWING.
   (A)   In addition to the construction plan requirements for water and sewer,
stormwater management plans showing grading and drainage shall be submitted.
One complete set of development plans signed and sealed by a professional state
land surveyor or engineer or state registered landscape architect shall be
submitted.
   (B)   The following information shall be provided on the site specific
stormwater management plans:
      (1)   Erosion control measures and details;
      (2)   Detailed topographic information. A minimum of two-foot contours is
required. Vertical datum shall be provided;
      (3)   Storm sewer profiles or design tables indicating the top of
structure, invert elevations, and pipe slope;
      (4)   The 100-year floodplain boundaries and elevations from the most
recent FIRM;
      (5)   All jurisdictional wetland boundaries on-site;
      (6)   All proposed stormwater management facilities;
      (7)   All existing stormwater management facilities should be shown.
Existing structures shall be labeled with invert, size, and material;
      (8)   Construction detail for improvements; and
      (9)   Drainage easements.
   (C)   (1)   With the construction drawings, a revised stormwater management
statement shall be submitted, if required.
      (2)   A copy of submittal for stormwater permit and the submittal for
erosion control plan, if required, shall be submitted.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.230 STORMWATER CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   Certification shall be provided by a professional state land surveyor
or engineer, or registered landscape architect, for the “as-built” plans.
   (B)   The certification to be made is provided by this chapter, and should
be sealed signed and dated and submitted with “as-built” drawings and the final
plat.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
§ 153.245 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE, AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The Legislature of the state has in G.S.
Chapter 143, Article 21, Part 6; G.S. Chapter 160D, all of the state general
statutes, delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare
of its citizenry.
   (B)   Findings of fact. The flood prone areas within the jurisdiction of the
county are subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life,
property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, extraordinary public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety, and general welfare. These flood losses are caused by the cumulative
effect of obstructions in the floodplain causing increases in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy in flood prone areas of uses vulnerable to
floods or hazardous.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this section to promote the
public health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions within flood prone areas by provisions designed
to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development that may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.246 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which this subchapter applies. This subchapter shall apply to
all special flood hazard areas within the jurisdiction of the county.
   (B)   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard. The special
flood hazard areas are those identified under the Cooperating Technical State
(CTS) agreement between the state and FEMA in its Flood Insurance Study (FIS)
and its accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM), for the county dated
October 3, 2006, which are adopted by reference and declared to be a part of
this subchapter.
   (C)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this subchapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes
and is based on scientific and engineering consideration. Larger floods can and
will occur. Actual flood heights may be increased by human-made or natural
causes. This subchapter does not imply that land outside the special flood
hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or
flood damages. This subchapter shall not create liability on the part of the
county or by any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result
from reliance on this subchapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
hereunder.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.247 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Designation of local administrator. The Manager of Planning Services,
herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator, is hereby appointed to
administer and implement the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Elevation certificates.
         (a)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) or floodproofing
certificate (FEMA Form 81-65) is required after the reference level is
established. Within 21 calendar days of establishment of the reference level
elevation, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of the reference
level, in relation to mean sea level. Elevation certification shall be prepared
by, or under the direct supervision of, a professional state land surveyor or
engineer and certified by same. Any work done within the 21-day calendar period
and prior to submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder’s
risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted.
Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder
immediately and prior to further work being permitted to proceed. Failure to
submit the certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause
to issue a stop-work order for the project.
         (b)   A final as-built elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is
required after construction is completed and prior to certificate of
compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of final as-built
construction of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities. Elevation certification shall be prepared by, or under the direct
supervision of, a professional state land surveyor or engineer and certified by
same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted.
Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder
immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy issuance. In some
instances, another certification may be required to certify corrected as-built
construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required
corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a certificate of
compliance/occupancy.
      (2)   If nonresidential floodproofing is used to meet the regulatory
flood protection elevation requirements, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form
81-65) is required prior to the actual start of any new construction. It shall
be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the floodproofed design elevation of the reference level and
all attendant utilities, in relation to mean sea level. Floodproofing
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
professional state engineer or architect licensed by the state’s Board of
Architecture and certified by same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review
the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be
corrected by the permit holder prior to the beginning of construction. Failure
to submit the certification or failure to make required corrections shall be
cause to deny a floodplain development permit. Failure to construct in
accordance with the certified design shall be cause to withhold the issuance of
a certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (3)   If a manufactured home is placed within Zone A, AO, AE, or A1-30
and the elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches in height above grade,
an engineered foundation certification is required per §
153.248(B)(3).
      (4)   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated then the following
shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior to issuance of a
floodplain development permit:
         (a)   A description of the extent of watercourse alteration or
relocation;
         (b)   An engineering report on the effects of the proposed project on
the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties
located both upstream and downstream; and
         (c)   A map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation.
      (5)   The following structures, if located within Zone A, AO, AE or A1-
30, are exempt from the elevation/floodproofing certification requirements
specified in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above:
         (a)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
153.248(B)(6)(a);
         (b)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
153.158(B)(7); and
         (c)   Accessory structures less than 150 square feet meeting
requirements of §
153.158(B)(8).
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities of the local administrator. The Floodplain
Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the following duties:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits
for all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that
the requirements of this section have been satisfied;
      (2)   Advise applicant that additional federal or state permits
(wetlands, endangered species, erosion and sedimentation control, riparian and
stream buffers, mining, and the like) may be required, and require that copies
of such permits be provided and maintained on file with the development permit;
      (3)   Notify adjacent communities and the state’s Department of Crime
Control and Public Safety, Division of Emergency, State Coordinator for the
National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA);
      (4)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (5)   Prevent encroachments within floodways unless the certification and
flood hazard reduction provisions of §
153.248(D) are met;
      (6)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
reference level (including basement) and all utilities of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with division (B) above;
      (7)   Obtain the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to
which the new or substantially improved structures and all utilities have been
floodproofed, in accordance with division (B) above;
      (8)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all
public utilities in accordance with division (B) above;
      (9)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a professional state engineer or architect licensed by the
state’s Board of Architecture and certified by same in accordance with §
153.061(F);
      (10)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the special flood hazard areas (for example, where there appears
to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions), make
the necessary interpretation. The person contesting the location of the
boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation
as provided in this section;
      (11)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data or floodway data has not been
provided in accordance with §
153.246(B), obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation
(BFE) data, along with floodway data or non-encroachment area data available
from a federal, state, or other source, including data developed pursuant to §
153.248(C)(2)(b), in order to administer the provisions of this section;
      (12)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway
nor non-encroachment area data has been provided in accordance with §
153.246(B), obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway data or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or other source in
order to administer the provisions of this subchapter;
      (13)   When the exact location of boundaries of the special flood hazard
areas conflict with the current, natural topography information at the site,
the property owner may apply and be approved for a Letter of Map Amendment
(LOMA) by FEMA. Maintain a copy of the Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) issued by
FEMA in the floodplain development permit file;
      (14)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the
administration of this subchapter and make these records available for public
inspection;
      (15)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant
to a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator
shall make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that
the work is being done according to the provisions of this subchapter and the
terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has
a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
      (16)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this subchapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing the work. The stop-work order shall state the specific work to
be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the condition(s) under
which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a
misdemeanor;
      (17)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, or specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked;
      (18)   Make periodic inspections throughout all special flood hazard
areas within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator
and each member of his or her or her inspections department shall have a right,
upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
      (19)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
153.999;
      (20)   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance
requests;
      (21)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to,
the FIS Report, FIRM and/or other official flood maps/studies adopted under §
153.246(B), including any revisions thereto including Letters of Map Change,
issued by the state and/or FEMA. Notify state and FEMA of mapping needs; and/or
      (22)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including Letters
of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F) and Letters of Map Revision (LOMR).
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.248 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   (A)   General standards. In all special flood hazard areas, the following
provisions are required:
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure;
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements below the
regulatory flood protection elevation shall be constructed with materials and
utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
      (3)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damages;
      (4)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding. These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment,
water softener units, bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter
panels/boxes, utility/cable boxes, appliances (washers, dryers, refrigerators,
freezers, and the like), hot water heaters, and electric outlets/switches;
      (5)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
      (6)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters;
      (7)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
      (8)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure which is in compliance with the provisions of this section, shall
meet the requirements for new construction as contained in this section;
      (9)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the repair, reconstruction,
or replacement of a building or structure existing on or prior to September 18,
2006 and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-encroachment
area, or stream setback, provided that the bulk of the building or structure
below the regulatory flood protection elevation in the floodway, non-
encroachment area, or stream setback is not increased and provided that such
repair, reconstruction, or replacement meets all of the other requirements of
this chapter;
      (10)   New solid waste disposal facilities, hazardous waste management
facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not be
permitted in special flood hazard areas, except by variance as specified in §
153.303(C). A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the regulatory
flood protection elevation and certified according to §
153.247(B);
      (11)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage;
      (12)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (13)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards; and
      (14)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334.
   (B)   Specific standards. In all special flood hazard areas where base flood
elevation (BFE) data has been provided, as set forth by the provisions of this
subchapter, in addition to division (A) above, are required:
      (1)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall
have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
153.024;
      (2)   Nonresidential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or nonresidential structure shall
have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
153.024. Structures located in A, AO, AE, and A1-30 Zones may be floodproofed
to the regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation provided that
all areas of the structure below the required elevation are watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effect of buoyancy. A professional state engineer or architect
licensed by the state’s Board of Architecture and certified by same shall
certify that the standards of this division are satisfied. Such certification
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in §
153.247(B) along with the operational and maintenance plans;
      (3)   Manufactured homes.
         (a)   New or replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation.
         (b)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement in
accordance with the state’s Regulations for Manufactured/Mobile Homes, 1995
Edition, and any revision thereto adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance
pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15 or a certified engineered foundation.
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36
inches or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by
reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is
above 36 inches in height, an engineering certification is required.
         (c)   All foundation enclosures or skirting shall be in accordance
with §
153.248(B)(4).
         (d)   An evacuation plan shall be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
Emergency Service Director.
      (4)   Elevated buildings. Enclosed areas, of new construction or
substantially improved structures, which are below the regulatory flood
protection elevation:
         (a)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall
only be used for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be partitioned or finished into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
         (b)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials below
the regulatory flood protection elevation;
         (c)   Shall include, in Zones A, AO, AE, and A1-30, measures to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings shall
either be certified by a professional state engineer or architect licensed by
the state’s Board of Architecture and certified by same or meet the following
minimum design criteria:
            1.   Provide a minimum of two openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
            2.   The total net area of all openings shall be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
            3.   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each area shall
have openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and exit;
            4.   The bottom of all required openings shall be no higher than
one foot above the adjacent grade;
            5.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
opening coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions; and
            6.   Foundation enclosures made of flexible skirting are not
considered enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires openings as outlined above.
      (5)   Additions and improvements.
         (a)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
            1.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements shall be designed to minimize flood damages and shall not be any
more nonconforming than the existing structure; or
            2.   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements shall comply with the standards for new
construction.
         (b)   Additions to post-FIRM structures with no modifications to the
existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall shall require
only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
         (c)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
            1.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements only shall comply with the standards for new construction; or
            2.   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements shall comply with the standards for new
construction.
         (d)   Where a fire wall or independent perimeter load-bearing wall is
provided between the addition and the existing building, the addition(s) shall
be considered a separate building and only the addition shall comply with the
standards for new construction.
      (6)   Recreational vehicles. Recreation vehicles placed on sites within a
special flood hazard area shall either:
         (a)   Be on-site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully
licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is ready for highway
use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities, and has no permanently attached additions); or
         (b)   Meet all the requirements for new construction, including
anchoring and elevation requirements of §
153.247(B) and division (B)(3) above.
      (7)   Temporary nonresidential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit, for a temporary structure, applicants shall
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash flood, or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
         (a)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified should be minimal with total time on-site not to
exceed 12 months;
         (b)   The name, address, and phone number of the individual
responsible for the removal of the temporary structure;
         (c)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
         (d)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with a
trucking company to ensure the availability of removal equipment when needed;
and
         (e)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the floodplain to which the temporary structure will be moved.
      (8)   Accessory structure. When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages, and the like) are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, the
following criteria shall be met:
         (a)   Accessory structures shall be used for human habitation
(including work, sleeping, living, cooking, or restroom areas);
         (b)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         (d)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         (e)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
division (A)(1) above;
         (f)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with division (A)(4) above;
         (g)   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below flood protection elevation in conformance with division (B)(4)
(c)1. above; and
         (h)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square
feet that satisfies the criteria outlined above does not require an elevation
or floodproofing certificate. Elevation or floodproofing certifications are
required for all other accessory structures in accordance with §
153.247(B).
   (C)   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations.
Within the special flood hazard areas established in §
153.246(B), where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been provided by FEMA,
the following provisions, in addition to division (A) above, shall apply.
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20
feet each side from top of bank or five times the width of the stream,
whichever is greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a
professional state engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachments
shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the
base flood discharge.
      (2)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection
elevation shall be determined based on one of the following criteria set in
priority order:
         (a)   If base flood elevation (BFE) data is available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas
shall also comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be
elevated or floodproofed in accordance with standards in §
153.247(C)(11) and (C)(12);
         (b)   All subdivision, manufactured home park, and other development
proposals located within special flood hazard areas shall provide base flood
elevation (BFE) data if development is greater than five acres or has more than
50 lots or manufactured home sites. Such base flood elevation (BFE) data shall
be adopted by reference per §
153.246(B) to be utilized in implementing this section; and/or
         (c)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
federal, state, or other source as outlined above, the reference level shall be
elevated above the highest adjacent grade as required in the regulatory flood
protection elevation definition.
   (E)   Standards for riverine floodplains with BFE but without established
floodways or non-encroachment areas. Along rivers and streams where BFE data is
provided but neither floodway nor non-encroachment areas are identified for a
special flood hazard area on the FIRM or in the FIS report, the following
requirements shall apply to all development within such areas:
      (1)   Standards outlined in divisions (A) and (B) above; and
      (2)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, or other development, shall be permitted unless certification
with supporting technical data by a professional state engineer is provided
demonstrating that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point
within the community.
   (F)   Floodways and non-encroachment areas. Areas designated as floodways or
non-encroachment areas are located within the special flood hazard areas
established in §
153.246(B). The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous
areas due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry
debris and potential projectiles. The following provisions, in addition to
standards outlined in divisions (A) and (B) above, shall apply to all
development within such areas:
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other developments shall be permitted unless it has been
demonstrated that:
         (a)   The proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in
the flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood, based on hydrologic
and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering
practice and presented to the Administrator prior to issuance of floodplain
development permit; or
         (b)   A Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) has been approved
by FEMA. A Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) shall also be obtained upon completion
of the proposed encroachment.
      (2)   If division (E)(1), above, is satisfied, all development shall
comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this section;
      (3)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except replacement
manufactured homes in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision,
provided the following provisions are met:
         (a)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of division (B)(3)
above; and
         (b)   The no encroachment standard of division (E)(1), above, are met.
   (G)   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (Zone AO). Located within the
special flood hazard areas established in §
153.246(B) are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and indeterminate. In addition to division (A) above, all new
construction and substantial improvements shall meet the following
requirements:
      (1)   The reference level shall be elevated at least as high as the depth
number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in feet, plus a
freeboard of two feet, above the highest adjacent grade; or at least two feet
above the highest adjacent grade plus a freeboard of two feet if no depth
number is specified;
      (2)   Nonresidential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be
floodproofed to the same level as required in division (B)(1) above so that the
structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below that
level shall be watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is
required as per §
153.061(F) and division (B)(2) above; and/or
      (3)   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on
slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
WATER SUPPLY WATERSHED
§ 153.260 EXCEPTIONS TO APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Nothing contained herein shall repeal, modify, or amend any federal or
state law or regulation, or any ordinance or regulation pertaining thereto
except any ordinance which these regulations specifically replace; nor shall
any provision of this subchapter amend, modify, or restrict any provision of
this subchapter; however, the adoption of this subchapter shall and does amend
any and all ordinances, resolutions, and regulations in effect in the county at
the time of the adoption of this subchapter that may be construed to impair or
reduce the effectiveness of this subchapter or to conflict with any of its
provisions.
   (B)   It is not intended that these regulations interfere with any easement,
covenants, or other agreements between parties. However, if the provisions of
these regulations impose greater restrictions or higher standards for the use
of a building or land, then the provisions of these regulations shall control.
   (C)   Existing development, as defined in this subchapter, is not subject to
the requirements of this subchapter. Expansions to structures classified as
existing development shall meet the requirements of this subchapter, however,
the built upon area of the existing development is not required to be included
in the density calculations.
   (D)   If a nonconforming lot of record is not contiguous to any other lot
owned by the same party, then that lot of record shall not be subject to the
development restrictions of this chapter if it is developed for single-family
residential purposes.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.261 DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Establishment of watershed areas. The purpose of this subchapter is to
list and describe the watershed areas herein adopted. For purposes of this
subchapter, the county is hereby divided into the following areas, as
appropriate:
      (1)   WS-III-BW (Balance of Watershed);
      (2)   WS-IV-CA (Critical Area); and
      (3)   WS-IV-PA (Protected Area).
   (B)   Watershed areas described.
      (1)   WS-III Watershed Areas - Balance of Watershed (WS-III-BW). In order
to maintain a low to moderate land use intensity pattern, single-family
detached uses shall develop at a maximum of three dwelling units per acre. All
other residential and nonresidential development shall be allowed a maximum of
24% built-upon area. In addition, nonresidential uses may occupy 10% of the
watershed with a 70% built-upon area when approved as a special nonresidential
intensity allocation (SNIA), as outlined in this chapter. Non-discharging
landfills and sludge application sites are allowed.
         (a)   Uses allowed.
            1.   Agriculture, subject to the provisions of the Food Security
Act of 1985, P.L. 99-198 and the Food, Agriculture, Conservation and Trade Act
of 1990;
            2.   Silviculture, subject to the provisions of the Forest
Practices Guidelines Related to Water Quality (02 NCAC 606.0101-.0209);
            3.   Residential development; and
            4.   Nonresidential development excluding discharging landfills.
         (b)   Density and built-upon limits.
            1.   Single-family residential development shall not exceed three
dwelling units per acre on a project by project basis. No residential lot shall
be less than one-half acre, except within an approved cluster development.
            2.   All other residential and nonresidential development shall not
exceed 24% built-upon area on a project by project basis, except that up to 10%
of the protected area may be developed for nonresidential uses to 70% built-
upon area on a project by project basis. For the purpose of calculating built-
upon area, total project area shall include total acreage in the tract on which
the project is to be developed.
      (2)   WS-IV Watershed Areas - Critical Area (WS-IV-CA). Only new
development activities that require an erosion/sedimentation control plan under
state law or approved local program are required to meet the provisions of this
section when located in the WS-IV watershed. In order to address a moderate to
high land use intensity pattern, single-family residential uses are allowed at
a maximum of three dwelling units per acre. All other residential and
nonresidential development shall be allowed at 24% built-upon area. New
residual waste sites and landfills are specifically prohibited.
         (a)   Uses allowed.
            1.   Agriculture subject to the provisions of the Food Security Act
of 1985, P.L. 99-198 and the Food, Agriculture, Conservation and Trade Act of
1990;
            2.   Silviculture, subject to the provisions of the Forest
Practices Guidelines Related to Water Quality (02 NCAC 606.0101-.0209);
            3.   Residential; and
            4.   Nonresidential development, excluding:
               a.   Landfills; and
               b.   Sites for land application of sludge/residuals or petroleum
contaminated soils.
         (b)   Density and built-upon limits.
            1.   Single-family residential development shall not exceed three
dwelling units per acre on a project by project basis. No residential lot shall
be less than one-half acre, except within an approved cluster development.
            2.   All other residential and nonresidential development shall not
exceed 24% built-upon area on a project by project basis. For the purpose of
calculating built-upon area, total project area shall include total acreage in
the tract on which the project is to be developed.
      (3)   WS-IV Watershed Area - Protected Area (WS-IV-PA). Only new
development activities that require an erosion/sedimentation control plan under
state law or approved local government program are required to meet the
provisions of this section when located in a WS-IV Watershed. In order to
address a moderate to high land use intensity pattern, single-family
residential uses shall develop at a maximum of three dwelling units per acre.
All other residential and nonresidential development shall be allowed at a
maximum of 24% built-upon area.
         (a)   Uses allowed.
            1.   Agriculture, subject to the provisions of the Food Security
Act of 1985, P.L. 99-198 and the Food, Agricultural, Conservation and Trade Act
of 1990;
            2.   Silviculture, subject to the provisions of the Forest
Practices Guidelines Related to Water Quality (02 NCAC 606.0101-.0209);
            3.   Residential development; and
            4.   Nonresidential development.
         (b)   Density and built-upon limits.
            1.   Single-family residential development shall not exceed three
dwelling units per acre on a project by project basis. No residential lot shall
be less than one-half acre except within an approved cluster development.
            2.   All other residential and nonresidential development shall not
exceed 24% built-upon area on a project by project basis. For projects without
a curb and gutter street system, development shall not exceed 36% built-upon
area on a project by project basis.
            3.   Up to 10% of the protected area may be developed for
nonresidential uses to 70% built-upon area on a project by project basis. For
the purpose of calculating built-upon area, total project area shall include
total acreage in the tract on which the project is to be developed.
   (C)   Cluster development. Clustering of development is allowed in all
watershed areas under the following conditions:
      (1)   Minimum lot sizes should be in conformance with all other
applicable sections of this section.
      (2)   Density should not exceed the number of units per acre allowed for
single-family detached developments in division (B) above.
      (3)   All built-upon areas shall be designed and located to minimize
stormwater runoff impact to the receiving waters and minimize concentrated
stormwater flow.
      (4)   The remainder of the tract shall remain in a vegetated or natural
state. Title to the open space area shall be conveyed to:
         (a)   An incorporated homeowners association for management. Where a
property association is not incorporated, a maintenance agreement shall be
filed with the property deeds;
         (b)   A local government for preservation as a park or open space; or
         (c)   A conservation organization for preservation in a permanent
easement.
   (D)   Buffer areas required. Within the WS-IV-PA Watershed District, a
minimum of a 100 foot stream buffer for development activities that exceed the
low density standards as established in this section is required along all
perennial waters indicated on the most recent versions of the USGS 1:24,000
(7.5 minute) scale topographic maps; otherwise a minimum of 30-foot stream
buffer is required. Desirable artificial streambank or shoreline stabilization
is permitted. No new development is allowed in the buffer except that water
dependent structures, other structures such as flag poles, signs, and security
lights which result in only diminutive increases in impervious areas, and
public projects such as street crossings and greenways where no practical
alternatives exists. These activities should minimize built-upon surface area,
direct runoff away from the surface waters, and maximize the utilization of
stormwater best management practices (BMPs).
   (E)   Rules governing the interpretation of watershed area boundaries. Where
uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of the watershed areas, as shown on the
Watershed Map, the following rules shall apply:
      (1)   Where area boundaries are indicated as approximately following
either street, alley, railroad, or highway lines or centerlines thereof, such
lines shall be construed to be the boundaries;
      (2)   Where area boundaries are indicated as approximately following lot
lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be the boundaries. However, a
surveyed plat prepared by a professional state land surveyor may be submitted
to the county as evidence that one or more properties along these boundaries do
not lie within the watershed area. The Administrator shall determine such
boundaries;
      (3)   Where the watershed area boundaries lie at a scaled distance more
than 25 feet from any parallel lot line, the location of watershed area
boundaries shall be determined by use of the scale appearing on the watershed
map;
      (4)   Where the watershed area boundaries lie at a scaled distance of 25
feet or less from any parallel lot line, the location of watershed area
boundaries shall be construed to be the lot line; and
      (5)   Where other uncertainty exists, the Watershed Administrator shall
interpret the Watershed Map as to the location of such boundaries. This
decision may be appealed to the county’s Board of Adjustment, acting as the
Watershed Review Board.
   (F)   Application of regulations.
      (1)   No building or land shall hereafter be used, and no development
shall take place, except in conformity with the regulations herein specified
for the watershed area in which it is located.
      (2)   No area required for the purpose of complying with the provisions
of this section shall be included in the area required for another building.
      (3)   If a use or class of use is not specifically indicated as being
allowed in a watershed area, such use or class of use is prohibited.
   (G)   Existing development.
      (1)   Any existing development as defined in this section, may be
continued and maintained subject to the provisions provided herein. Expansions
to structures classified as existing development shall meet the requirements of
this section; however, the built-upon area of the existing development is not
required to be included in the density calculations.
      (2)   Reconstruction of buildings or built-upon areas.
      (3)   Any existing building or built-upon area not in conformance with
the restrictions of this section that has been damaged or removed may be
repaired and/or reconstructed, except that there are no restrictions on single-
family residential development, provided:
         (a)   Repair or reconstruction is initiated within three months and
completed within one year of such damage; and
         (b)   The total amount of space devoted to built-upon area may not be
increased.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Ord. 2024-25, passed 9-16-2024)
§ 153.262 PUBLIC HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No activity, situation, structure or land use shall be allowed within
the watershed which poses a threat to water quality and the public health,
safety, and welfare.
   (B)   Such conditions may arise from:
      (1)   Inadequate on-site sewage systems which utilize ground absorption;
      (2)   Inadequate sedimentation and erosion control measures;
      (3)   The improper storage or disposal of junk, trash or other refuse
within a buffer area;
      (4)   The absence or improper implementation of a spill containment plan
for toxic and hazardous materials;
      (5)   The improper management of stormwater runoff; or
      (6)   Any other situation found to pose a threat to water quality.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
ADMINISTRATION AND BOARDS
§ 153.275 GENERAL.
   It is the intention of this chapter that:
   (A)   All questions arising in connection with the enforcement of this
chapter shall be presented first to the Administrator;
   (B)   Such questions shall be presented to the Board of Adjustment only on
appeal from the Administrator and within the time limits prescribed; and
   (C)   Any interested party may seek review of a decision of the Board of
Adjustment in Superior Court in the nature of certiorari. Any appeal to the
Superior Court shall be taken within 30 days after the decision of the Board of
Adjustment.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.276 COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   It is the intention of this chapter that the Board of Commissioners,
in connection with the chapter, shall not include the hearing and passing of
disputed questions that may arise in connection with the enforcement thereof or
special use.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioner’s duties shall include:
      (1)   The hearing of vested rights requests;
      (2)   The hearing of amendments to the chapter text and the Zoning Map;
      (3)   The question of repeal of the chapter as provided by law; and/or
      (4)   The hearing of amendments to approved comprehensive and land use
plan.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.277 PLANNING BOARD.
   (A)   Establishment and procedure of Planning Board.
      (1)   The Planning Board shall have all the powers and authority granted
by G.S. Chapter 160D and subsequent provisions of law and any other powers and
duties so delegated by the Board of County Commissioners.
      (2)   There shall be a quorum of three members for the purpose of taking
any official action required by this chapter.
      (3)   The Planning Board shall elect one of its members as Chairperson
and another as Vice-Chairperson. It shall be the duties of the Chairperson to
conduct the meetings, address the County Commissioners as needed, sign
documents as required, and function as the liaison with the Planning Department
staff. In the absence of the Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson shall perform
all duties of the Chairperson. At the regular meeting in January of each year,
the Planning Board shall elect a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson from its
regular membership as the first order of business during its regular meeting.
The term of office shall last for 12 months, beginning in January. Officers may
serve consecutive terms. Any member who has served at least 12 months prior to
the date of the elections is eligible to hold either office. Election of
officers may be by secret ballot or by nomination and voice vote.
   (B)   Membership. The county’s Planning Board shall consist of five regular
members and two alternates, for a total of seven members. Members shall be
appointed by the county’s Commissioners with terms of office being set
according to the rules of procedure for the Board of Commissioners (see
division (C) below) as they may exist from time to time. Each commissioner
district should be represented on the Planning Board by a regular member.
Membership should be distributed throughout the county in as much as is
practical. Alternates shall be designated as Alternate #1 and Alternate #2 and
shall, when feasible, rotate service on the Board.
   (C)   Rules of procedure. The Board shall adopt rules and regulations as it
may deem necessary to carry into effect the provisions of this section. These
rules and regulations shall be designated in the by-laws of the county’s
Planning Board, which shall be kept on file in the county’
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   Review and recommendation.
         (a)   Zoning map amendments to Official Zoning Map;
         (b)   Text amendments to this chapter;
         (c)   Text amendments to land use plan; and
         (d)   Prepare and make recommendations on plans, studies, and other
items, as outlined in the by-laws of the county’s Planning Board.
      (2)   Final decision-making body.
         (a)   Appeals of the Development Review Board (DRB) and Subdivision
Administrator, below, shall follow the same procedure outlined in §
153.279(C)(1);
         (b)   Appeal of Subdivision Administrator;
         (c)   Planned unit development (PUD) modification;
         (d)   Architectural standard design alternative;
         (e)   Parking landscaping plan alternative;
         (f)   Lighting standard plan alternative;
         (g)   Alternative buffers and screening plan;
         (h)   Office and institutional development plan; and
         (i)   Private streets and/or gated entrance review for standard
subdivisions.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 4-16-2011; Res. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.278 DEVELOPMENT REVIEW BOARD.
   (A)   Establishment of Development Review Board.
      (1)   This Board shall be officially known and cited as the Harnett
County, North Carolina Development Review Board, although it may be referred to
hereafter as the “DRB”, “this Board”, or the “Development Review Board”.
      (2)   The Development Review Board is enacted under powers granted by the
state.
   (B)   Purpose and intent. The purpose and intent of the DRB is:
      (1)   To protect the character and the stability of the residential,
business, and manufacturing areas within the county and to promote the orderly
and beneficial development of such areas;
      (2)   To prevent the overcrowding of land and undue concentration of
structures, so far as possible and appropriate in each district, and to provide
adequate light, air, privacy, and convenience of access to property;
      (3)   To encourage innovative and quality new residential development so
that growing demand for housing may be met by greater variety in type, design,
and layout of dwellings and by conservation and more efficient use of open
space ancillary to such dwellings;
      (4)   Encourage pedestrian and vehicular connections between residential
neighborhoods and between residential neighborhoods and nearby employment
centers, shopping, and community services, such as parks and schools;
      (5)   To encourage quality, nonresidential development that preserves and
protects the character of the community, including its natural landscape, and
that minimizes objectionable noise, glare, odor, traffic, and other impacts of
such development especially when adjacent to residential uses;
      (6)   To encourage quality, single-family, and multifamily residential
development that preserves and protects the character of the community,
including its natural landscape, and that minimizes objectionable noise, glare,
odor, traffic, and other impacts of such development especially when adjacent
to residential uses; and
      (7)   To provide for a continuing, coordinated, and comprehensive review
of the technical aspects of this chapter, and for the approval of certain
technical aspects of development proposals.
   (C)   Membership.
      (1)   General membership.
         (a)   The Development Review Board shall consist of staff
representatives from the following county departments:
            1.   Planning Department;
            2.   Public Health;
            3.   Public Utilities;
            4.   Fire Code Official’s Office;
            5.   E-911 Addressing Department; and/or
            6.   County Engineer.
         (b)   The general membership shall be responsible for reviewing,
commenting, and voting on all technical aspects of applications for development
submitted to the Board, taking into consideration the comments of advisory
members, relevant to their area of expertise. In the absence of a DRB member,
the completed staff report from the member’s department shall serve as the
decision for such department.
         (c)   To perform any other related duties that the county’s Board of
Commissioners may direct.
      (2)   Advisory membership.
         (a)   Depending upon the specific aspects of a development proposal,
additional members of the DRB include representatives of the following
agencies:
            1.   NCDOT;
            2.   North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural
Resources;
            3.   Fort Bragg, Master Planning Division;
            4.   Parks and Recreation;
            5.   GIS/Land Records Department;
            6.   County Board of Education;
            7.   Private Utility Company(ies);
            8.   County Finance Department; and/or
            9.   County Legal Services.
         (b)   The advisory members shall review and comment on all technical
aspects of applications for development submitted to the Board relevant to
their area of expertise.
         (c)   The advisory members shall not vote on application appearing
before the Development Review Board.
      (3)   Chairperson. The Chairperson of the DRB shall be a general member.
The Board shall select an alternate Chairperson in the absence of the serving
Chairperson. All authority granted to the Chairperson shall be carried over to
the alternate Chairperson.
   (D)   Rules of procedure.
      (1)   Meetings.
         (a)   The Development Review Board shall establish standard meeting
dates, times, and a standard meeting location. The schedule for each calendar
year shall be published in the county’s Planning Office and be available for
public access.
         (b)   The Chairperson may call for additional meetings or may cancel
any meeting of the Development Review Board assuming that an announcement is
made at the previous DRB meeting and good faith attempts are made to notify
those who shall be present.
      (2)   Records. The DRB shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the
vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact, and shall also keep records of its hearings and other
official actions.
      (3)   Review and approval.
         (a)   Complete applications or revisions shall be submitted to the
Development Review Board via the county’s Planning Department.
            1.   The county’s Planning Department shall establish criteria for
a complete application. Any change in requirements shall be posted in the
Planning Department office no less than 30 days prior to enforcement.
            2.   The county’s Planning Department shall establish standard
deadlines for complete applications. This information shall be made available
to the public and shall be posted in the Planning Department office.
         (b)   When an application first appears before the Board, the
petitioner, or his or her duly appointed representative, shall make a brief
presentation about the development proposal and provide time for the general
and advisory members to ask questions and state concerns.
         (c)   The petitioner shall be granted the opportunity to revise the
application based upon the Development Review Board’s comments. The petitioner
is encouraged to contact each member’s agency directly in regards to comments
or concerns specifically relating to that members area of expertise.
         (d)   Once all comments have been exhausted, each general member shall
vote to either approve, approve with conditions, hold, or deny an application.
            1.   Approve. To approve an application means to accept the
development entirely as presented on the application.
            2.   Approve with conditions. To approve with conditions means to
accept the development overall, but require minor changes between the time of
approval and construction.
            3.   Hold. To hold an application means to find that the
application does not conform to a number of existing regulations or development
policies due to major changes that are required on the submittal. Any
application placed on hold shall go through the DRB review process again once
resubmittal is requested by the applicant.
            4.   Deny. To deny an application means to find that the
application does not conform to the existing regulations or development
policies, and/or the applicant is unwilling to conform to existing regulations
or development policies. Any application that is denied shall go through the
DRB review process as a new application once resubmittal is requested by the
applicant.
         (e)   Any regular and special advisory members shall issue comments in
writing on each development application to the Planning Department. These
comments shall be forwarded on to the petitioner.
         (f)   The most restrictive vote that any DRB member renders shall be
considered the final decision of the Board for an application.
   (E)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   Final decision-making authority. The DRB shall have final review
and decision-making authority over the following types of applications and
submittals:
         (a)   Major subdivision preliminary plans and plats;
         (b)   Major subdivisions final plans and plats;
         (c)   Neighborhood site plans;
         (d)   Community site plans;
         (e)   Regional site plans;
         (f)   Construction plan/drawing;
         (g)   Attached single-family development;
         (h)   Multifamily development; and
         (i)   Manufactured home parks.
      (2)   Appeals. The applicant may appeal the Development Review Board’s
decision to the county’s Planning Board by following the procedures in §§
153.300 through 153.304.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.279 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Establishment and procedure of the Board of Adjustment (G.S. Chapter
160D).
      (1)   The Chairperson of the Board of Adjustment is authorized in his or
her official capacity to administer oaths to witnesses in any matter coming
before the Board. Any member of the Board, while acting as Chairperson, shall
have and may exercise like authority.
      (2)   All meetings of the Board shall be held at a regular place and
shall be open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings,
showing the decision of the Board upon each question, or if absent or failing
to vote, an indication of such fact, and the final disposition of appeals shall
be by recorded resolution indicating the reasons of the Board thereof, all of
which shall be a public record.
      (3)   A concurring vote from the simple majority of the Board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of the
Administrator or to grant a special use permit.
      (4)   A concurring vote of four-fifths majority of the Board shall be
necessary to grant a variance from the provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Membership.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment is created, which shall consist of five
members and six alternates, who shall all be citizens of the county. These
members shall be appointed by the Board of County Commissioners for staggered
three-year terms. Alternates shall also be appointed to three-year terms.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall elect one of its members as
Chairperson and another as Vice-Chairperson and shall appoint a secretary to
keep minutes of its proceedings. The Board shall adopt such rules and
regulations as it may deem necessary to carry into effect the provisions of
this section. These rules and regulations shall be designated in the county’s
Board of Adjustment by-laws, which shall be kept on file in the county’s
Planning Department Office.
      (3)   Initial appointment of the members shall be as follows:
         (a)   One member for a term of three years, two members for a term of
two years, and two members for a term of one year;
         (b)   Vacancies shall be filled for unexpired terms only; and
         (c)   Members shall be removed for cause by the Board of Commissioners
upon written charges and after a public hearing.
         (d)   The members of the Board of Adjustment may receive for their
services per diem compensation the amount of which shall be fixed by the
county’s Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   Powers and duties. The Board of Adjustment shall have the following
powers and duties:
      (1)   Administrative review (appeal of the Administrator). The Board of
Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in
any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the Administrator in
the enforcement of this chapter with the exception of those decisions related
to the subdivision regulations of this chapter, as well as decisions of the
Development Review Board (DRB). Appeals from the enforcement and interpretation
of this chapter shall be filed with the Administrator specifying the grounds
thereof, within 30 days of the date the decision was made. The Administrator
shall transmit to the Board of Adjustment all applications and records
pertaining to such appeals and variances. The Board of Adjustment shall fix a
reasonable time for the hearing of appeal, giving notice to all participants by
first class mail. The Board of Adjustment shall have the authority to waive
penalties in cases where the Administrator’s decision is overturned or amended,
and if the penalty was assessed during the time period allotted for appeal.
      (2)   Variance. To authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variances
from the terms of the zoning and airport height control regulations contained
within this chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing
to special conditions a literal enforcement of the provisions of the chapter
will, in an individual case, result in practical difficulty or unnecessary
hardship, so that the spirit of the chapter shall be observed, public safety
and welfare secured, and substantial justice done.
      (3)   Special use permits. The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide
to issue special use permits as prescribed in this chapter. Prior to the
granting of any special use permit, the Board of Adjustment may stipulate, such
conditions and restrictions upon the establishment, location, reconstruction,
maintenance, and operation of the special use as it deems necessary to secure
compliance with the standards and requirements specified herein. In all cases
in which special use permits are granted, the Board of Adjustment shall require
such evidence and guarantees as it may deem necessary as proof that the
provisions of this section have been met. Procedures for special use permit
hearings shall be found in §§
153.300 through
153.304.
      (4)   Abandonment of special use permits. The Board of Adjustment shall
have the authority to abandon a special use permit at the request of the permit
holder, following the provisions of §§
153.300 through
153.304.
      (5)   Revocation of special use permits. The Board of Adjustment shall
have the authority to revoke a special use permit upon request, following the
provisions of §§
153.300 through
153.304.
      (6)   Watershed Review Board. The Board of Adjustment shall serve as the
acting Watershed Review Board.
      (7)   Flood Damage Prevention Appeal Board. The Board of Adjustment shall
serve as the acting Flood Damage Prevention Board.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 2-17-2014; Res. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.280 WATERSHED REVIEW BOARD.
   (A)   Establishment of Watershed Review Board. There is hereby created a
Watershed Review Board which shall be the county’s Board of Adjustment,
including its alternates, serving at the time of adoption of this chapter and
its duly appointed successor Boards.
   (B)   Rules of procedure. The Watershed Review Board shall operate
consistent with the adopted by-laws for the county’s Board of Adjustment.
   (C)   Powers and duties. The Watershed Review Board shall have the following
powers and duties:
      (1)   Administrative review. The Watershed Review Board shall hear and
decide appeals from any decision or determination made by the Administrator in
the enforcement of this section;
      (2)   Variances. The Watershed Review Board shall have the power to
authorize, in specific cases, minor variances from the terms of this section as
will not be contrary to the public interests where, owing to special
conditions, a literal enforcement of this section will result in practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of this section shall
be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done.
In addition, the Administrator shall notify and allow a reasonable comment
period for all other local governments having jurisdiction in the designated
watershed where the variance is being considered; and
      (3)   Special nonresidential intensity allocation (SNIA). The following
criteria shall be used in determining whether a SNIA can be accepted by the
Watershed Review Board. Projects shall:
         (a)   Minimize built-upon surface area;
         (b)   Direct stormwater away from surface waters; and
         (c)   Incorporate Best Management Practices (BMPs) to minimize water
quality impacts.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.281 FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION APPEAL BOARD.
   The Board of Adjustment, as established by the Board of Commissioners,
hereinafter referred to as the Appeal Board, shall serve as the Appeal Board,
and hear and decide requests for variances from the requirements of the Flood
Damage Prevention regulations of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by the
decision of the Appeal Board may appeal such decision to Superior Court, as
provided in the state general statutes.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.282 HISTORIC PROPERTIES COMMISSION.
   (A)   Creation and appointment. The Historic Properties Commission (HPC)
shall consist of five regular members and two alternate members appointed by
the Board of Commissioners. All members must reside in Harnett County within
the jurisdiction of the HPC, which shall include the area wherein the county
and municipalities which adopt this section have authority for planning and
regulation of development. The regular members of the HPC should represent each
of the five Board of Commissioners’ districts, but the Board of Commissioners
may select no more than two qualified candidates from the same district.
Alternate members shall be at-large members; however, both alternates shall not
reside in the same district unless the Board of Commissioners do not receive
qualified candidates from different districts.
      (1)   Representation of jurisdiction. In making appointments to the HPC,
the Board of Commissioners shall strive to appoint members geographically
representing all areas of the HPC's territorial jurisdiction, including but not
limited to, participating municipalities. The provisions of this section shall
apply to the unincorporated areas of the county as specifically identified and
delineated on the zoning map identified as The Official Zoning Map of Harnett
County, North Carolina. In establishing the HPC and making appointments to it,
the Board of Commissioners shall seek the advice of state or local historical
agencies, societies, or organizations as it may deem necessary. The HPC may
appoint advisory bodies and committees as appropriate.
   (B)   Membership.
      (1)   Qualification of members. A majority of the members of the HPC
shall have demonstrated special interest, experience, or education in history,
architecture, archaeology, or related fields.
      (2)   Terms. HPC members shall serve overlapping terms of three years,
and until their successors have been appointed. Initially, the Board of
Commissioners shall appoint three regular members to a full term of three years
and appoint two regular members to a two-year term. Alternate members shall be
appointed to three-year terms. Thereafter, the Board of Commissioners shall
appoint members to three-year terms. Any vacancy during the unexpired term of a
member of the HPC shall be filled in accordance with the rules of procedure for
the Board of Commissioners.
      (3)   Rules of procedure. The HPC shall adopt rules of procedure
necessary to the conduct of its affairs and in keeping with the provisions of
this section. The rules of procedure adopted by the HPC shall at least provide
for the selection of its officers, the time and place of its regular meetings
and the calling of special meetings, the procedures for the conduct of public
hearings, the conduct of voting, the forms to be used in applying for and
issuing or denying certificates of appropriateness, and a list of minor works
for which the Harnett County Planning Department may issue certificates of
appropriateness. These rules and procedures shall be kept on file in the County
Planning Department Office.
   (C)   Powers and duties. The HPC is authorized and empowered to undertake
such actions reasonably necessary to the discharge and conduct of its duties
and responsibilities as outlined in this ordinance and the state general
statutes, including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Undertake an inventory of properties of historical, prehistorical,
architectural, archaeological, and/or cultural significance.
      (2)   Recommend to the Board of Commissioners individual buildings,
structures, sites, areas, or objects within its zoning jurisdiction to be
designated by designation resolution as “historic landmarks,” and areas within
its zoning jurisdiction to be designated by designation resolution as “historic
districts.”
      (3)   Recommend to the Board of Commissioners that designation of any
area as a historic district or part thereof, or of any building, structure,
site, area, or object as a historic landmark, be revoked or removed for cause.
      (4)   Review and act upon proposals for alteration or demolition of
designated landmarks and for alteration, demolition, or new construction within
historic districts, pursuant to this section.
      (5)   Conduct educational programs on historic landmarks and districts
within the county.
      (6)   Cooperate with state, federal and local governments in pursuing the
purposes of this section. The Board of Commissioners or the HPC when authorized
by the Board of Commissioners may contract with the state, or the United States
of America, or any agency of either, or with any other organization, provided
the terms are not inconsistent with state or federal law.
      (7)   Prepare and recommend the official adoption of a historic
preservation element as part of the county's comprehensive plan, at the request
of the Board of Commissioners.
      (8)   Acquire by any lawful means the fee or any lesser included
interest, including options to purchase, to any historic landmarks, land to
which historic buildings or structures may be moved, or properties located
within historic districts; hold, manage, preserve, restore, and improve the
interest; and exchange or dispose of the interest by public or private sale,
lease, or otherwise, subject to covenants or other legally binding restrictions
which will secure appropriate rights of public access and promote the
preservation of the property. All lands, buildings, structures, sites, areas,
or objects acquired by funds appropriated by the HPC, Board of Commissioners,
or other county agency shall be acquired in the name of the Harnett County
unless otherwise provided by the Board of Commissioners.
      (9)   Restore, preserve, and operate such historic properties.
      (10)   Enter, at reasonable times, upon private property designated as a
historic landmark, within a historic district or under review for such
designation and make examinations or surveys as necessary to the performance of
its official duties. The HPC shall make a good faith attempt to notify the
property owner(s) or his or her duly authorized agent prior to entry.
      (11)   Negotiate at any time with the owner(s) of a building, structure,
site, area or object for its acquisition or its preservation, when such action
is reasonably necessary and appropriate.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Ord. 2023-27, passed 12-18-2023)
§ 153.283 PLANNING DIRECTOR AND PLANNING DEPARTMENT STAFF.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided, primary responsibility for
administering and enforcing this chapter may be assigned by the County Manager
to one or more individuals. The person(s) to whom these functions are assigned
shall be referred to herein as the Administrator. The term “staff” or “Planning
staff” may be used interchangeably with the term Administrator.
   (A)   Administrator. The Administrator shall have the authority to
administer the provisions of this chapter, as listed herein.
      (1)   Zoning Administrator. The Manager of Planning Services, or his or
her authorized agent, shall be the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning
Administrator shall administer and enforce the zoning provisions of this
chapter.
      (2)   Subdivision Administrator. The Manager of Planning Services, or his
or her authorized agent, shall be the Subdivision Administrator. The
Subdivision Administrator shall administer and enforce the subdivision
provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Water Supply Watershed Administrator. The Board of County
Commissioners shall appoint a Watershed Administrator, who shall be duly sworn
in, herein referred to as “Watershed Administrator” or “Administrator”. It
shall be the duty of the Watershed Administrator to administer and enforce the
provisions of this chapter as follows:
         (a)   The Watershed Administrator shall issue, or cause to be issued,
watershed protection permits and watershed protection occupancy permits as
prescribed herein. A record of all permits shall be kept on file and shall be
available for public inspection during regular office hours of the
Administrator;
         (b)   The Watershed Administrator or his or her designee shall serve
as clerk to the Watershed Review Board;
         (c)   The Watershed Administrator shall keep records of the county’s
utilization of the provision that a maximum of 10% of the non-critical area of
WS III-BW watersheds may be developed with nonresidential development to a
maximum of 70% built-upon surface area. Records for each watershed shall
include:
            1.   The total acres of non-critical watershed area;
            2.   Total acres eligible to be developed under this option;
            3.   Total acres approved for this development option; and
            4.   Individual records for each project with the following
information:
               a.   Location;
               b.   Acres of site plan;
               c.   Use;
               d.   Stormwater management plan as applicable; and
               e.   Inventory of hazardous materials as applicable.
         (d)   The Watershed Administrator is granted the authority to
administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter, exercising in the
fulfillment of his or her responsibility the full police power of the county.
The Watershed Administrator, or his or her duly authorized representative, may
enter any building, structure, or premises, as provided by law, to perform any
duty imposed upon him or her by this chapter; and
         (e)   A description of all projects receiving a variance and the
reason for granting the variance shall be submitted to the Environmental
Management Commission on January 1 of each year.
      (4)   Communication tower regulations review. The county may, through
contract, secure the professional services of telecommunications consultants to
assist county staff in the implementation of the communication tower
regulations of this chapter. Such professional, services include, but are not
limited to:
         (a)   Review and evaluation of permit applications;
         (b)   Determination of compliance with existing and proposed federal
regulations;
         (c)   Minimization of the aesthetic impact;
         (d)   Review of the technical data; and/or
         (e)   Expert testimony, as needed.
      (5)   Enforcement Officer. The Manager of Planning Services, or his or
her authorized agent, shall be the Enforcement Officer, herein referred to as
“Enforcement Officer”, “Administrator”, or “Zoning Inspector”. The Enforcement
Officer shall administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Administrator shall have the following powers
and duties, in addition to those items included in this section:
      (1)   Administration of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Set forth procedure deemed necessary and appropriate to ensure this
chapter is properly administered and enforced;
      (3)   Administrative review of alternative buffer and screening plan (see
§
153.158(A)(6)(a));
      (4)   Administrative review of alternative prime views and open vistas
(see §
153.157(B)(5)(e)); and
      (5)   Administrative variances.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.284 OTHER DEPARTMENTS.
   The county, within its jurisdictional authority, shall serve as the review
and approval body for additional ordinance, regulation, and policy relating to
the departments listed herein. In no case shall inclusion of or reference to
those ordinances or policies within this section be construed to intend that
the county’s Planning Department be responsible for administration or
enforcement of such.
   (A)   Register of Deeds. The county’s Planning Board shall file a copy of
this chapter with the Register of Deeds of the county. The Register of Deeds
shall not thereafter file or record a plat of a subdivision located within the
applicable territorial jurisdiction of the county without the approval of the
DRB and the County Commissioners, as required in this chapter. The filing or
recording of a plat of a subdivision, without the approval of the DRB and the
County Commissioners as required by this chapter, shall be null and void. The
Clerk of Superior Court of the county shall not order or direct the recording
of a plat where such recording would be in conflict with this section.
   (B)   Review Officer.
      (1)   Review Officer appointment. Pursuant to G.S. § 47-30.2, an
appointed County Review Officer, shall review each map or plat required to be
submitted for review prior to being submitted to the Register of Deeds office
for recording.
      (2)   Review Officer location. The Review Officer is located in the GIS/
Land Records Division of the county.
   (C)   E-911 Addressing. The E-911 Operations Administrator shall be
responsible for enforcement of §
153.135.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Ord. 2024-08, passed 3-18-2024)
§ 153.285 COURTS.
   All matters of the courts shall be in accordance with local and state
regulations.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
§ 153.300 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   General procedures. The county’s Board of Commissioners may amend,
supplement, or change the text regulations and zoning district lines according
to the following procedures:
      (1)   Upon the filing of an application for a zoning change a stay shall
go into effect for properties specified within the application, whereby the
county’s Planning Department, Environment Health Department, Public Utilities
Department, and Inspections Department shall not accept applications for
permits, requests for approval of minor subdivisions, preliminary plats for
major subdivisions, and manufactured home parks within the proposed zoning
area. This stay shall exist for 120 days from the date the application or
petition is filed with the county’s Planning Department or until the petition
is approved or disapproved by the county’s Board of Commissioners, whichever
first occurs. However, those applications for permits, minor subdivision
approvals, and preliminary plat approvals meeting all provisions of the
proposed zoning district, and not in conflict with the current zoning, will be
accepted and processed provided approval has been granted or recommended by the
Administrator or his or her designee.
      (2)   The following actions shall be taken by the applicant:
         (a)   Initiation of amendments.
            1.    Proposed changes or amendments to the Official Zoning Map may
be initiated by the county’s Board of Commissioners, Planning Board, Board of
Adjustment, Planning Department, or by the owner(s), or his or her agent, of
property within the area proposed to be changed. Property not owned by the
applicant(s) may be included as part of a proposed amendment to the Official
Zoning Map. Applications by the owner(s) or his or her agent for changes or
amendments to the Official Zoning Map may be submitted no more than once within
a 12-month period for each individual parcel of property. This waiting period
shall not apply to zoning map amendment requests initiated by the county’s
Board of Commissioners, Planning Board, Board of Adjustment, or Planning
Department.
            2.   Proposed amendments to the text of the chapter may be
initiated by any interested party.
         (b)   Application.
            1.   An application shall be filed in the Planning Department
office, according to the filing schedule, for any proposed map change or text
amendment. This application shall cite the area on the existing map or the
portion of the existing ordinance for which the change is requested.
            2.   The county’s Board of Commissioners shall set a fee, payable
to the county to cover the necessary administrative costs and advertising of
each proposed amendment or map change application. The set fee shall be posted
in the county’s Planning Department office. The Planning Department, Planning
Board, Board of Adjustment, and Board of Commissioners shall be exempted from
this fee.
      (3)   Planning staff shall, upon receipt of an application for amendment,
review such application for completion. Incomplete applications may be returned
to the applicant(s) and/or delayed in review by applicable Boards due to
insufficiencies. Upon receipt of a completed application, Planning staff will
review and compare to best available information and data used to evaluate
appropriateness of amendment requests. Planning staff will then make a
recommendation on the amendment request, included as part of a staff report,
which will be presented to the applicable Boards.
      (4)   The Planning Board shall consider and make recommendations to the
county’s Board of Commissioners concerning each proposed text change or zoning
district change. In cases where a zoning district change request is recommended
for approval by the Planning Board but does not correspond with the adopted
land use plan, the Planning Board shall further recommend that the land use
plan be amended as appropriate. See §
153.300(F) for additional information. The following policy guidelines shall be
followed by the Planning Board concerning text change or zoning district change
and no proposed zoning district change will receive favorable recommendation
unless the intent of the following statements are met:
         (a)   The proposal will place all property similarly situated in the
area in the same category, or in appropriate complementary categories;
         (b)   There is convincing demonstration that all uses permitted under
the proposed district classification would be in the general public interest
and not merely in the interest of an individual or small group;
         (c)   There is convincing demonstration that all uses permitted under
the proposed district classification would be appropriate in the area included
in the proposed change. When a new district designation is assigned, any use
permitted in the district is allowable, so long as it meets district
requirements, and not merely uses which applicants state they intend to make of
the property involved;
         (d)   There is convincing demonstration that the character of the
neighborhood will not be materially and adversely affected by any use permitted
in the proposed change; and
         (e)   The proposed change is in accordance with the comprehensive plan
and sound planning principles.
      (5)   The county’s Board of Commissioners may from time to time as they
see fit, amend any provisions of this chapter according to the following
procedure:
         (a)   Notice of public hearing. 
            1.   No amendment or map change shall be adopted by the county’s
Board of Commissioners until and after public notice and hearing. Such notice
and hearing shall be as provided in G.S. Chapter 160D as each may exist from
time to time.
            2.   Before taking such lawful action as it may deem advisable, the
Board of Commissioners shall consider the Planning Board’s recommendations on
each proposed zoning amendment or map change. If no recommendation is received
from the Planning Board within 30 days after public hearing by the Board of
Commissioners, the proposed amendment shall be deemed to have been approved by
the Planning Board.
         (b)   Statement of consistency. As required, whenever the Board of
Commissioners makes a decision to adopt or reject an amendment, the Board shall
approve a written statement describing whether the action is consistent with
adopted plan(s). For purposes of this chapter, the required written statement
shall be considered the staff report, unless otherwise specifically stated in
the decision motion by the Board.
   (B)   Zoning map and text amendments. Zoning map and text amendments shall
follow the procedures outlined above.
   (C)   Amendments to historic preservation regulations. No amendment shall
receive recommendation from the county’s Planning Board unless the Historic
Properties Commission has first been given the opportunity to make a
recommendation on an application for any text, district, or designation change
regulated by §§
153.175 through
153.178.
   (D)   Amendments to airport height control regulations. No amendment shall
receive favorable recommendation unless the application for any text or map
change located within the boundary created by the airport control regulations
shall be accompanied by a determination from the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) as to the effect of the proposal on the operation of air
navigation facilities and the safe, efficient use of navigable airspace.
Additionally, no amendment shall receive recommendation from the county’s
Planning Board unless the Airport Committee has first been given the
opportunity to make a recommendation on an application for any change regulated
by §§
153.190 through
153.193.
   (E)   Amendments to water supply watershed regulations. The NCDENR will be
informed of all amendments to this section that represent major changes in land
use regulations related to all water supply watersheds located in the
jurisdiction of the county.
   (F)   Land use plan amendments.
      (1)   General land use plan amendments. Amendments to the land use plan
shall be considered for approval following the same procedure for filing a text
amendment of this section, as outlined herein. For the purposes of this
section, an amendment to the land use plan shall be considered as such in
regards to advertising, public hearings, and all other similar requirements.
These amendments shall be considered twice a year with at least a two-month
staff review time period after an application has been received. Specific dates
shall be published by development services at the beginning of the calendar
year.
      (2)   Land use plan amendments made in conjunction with Zoning Map/change
amendments. Where a proposed zoning change petition conflicts with the land use
plan, the Planning staff may also request a land use plan amendment, to be
considered simultaneously with the zoning district change request, as outlined
herein.
         (a)    In such a case, the Planning Board and Board of Commissioners
shall consider the plan amendment proposal and the zoning change petition
separately, and shall vote separately on the two items (though the votes may
occur simultaneously).
         (b)   The Planning Board shall submit its report and recommendation
regarding the land use plan amendment to Board of Commissioners at the same
time it submits its report and recommendation regarding the zoning change
petition.
         (c)   For the purposes of this section, land use plan amendments will
automatically be advertised in conjunction with the zoning district change
request.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 11-16-2020; Ord. 2023-07, passed 3-20-
2023)
§ 153.301 HEARING AND MEETING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Evidentiary hearing (quasi-judicial) procedures (special use permit).
      (1)   Evidentiary hearing notification procedures. The Chairperson of the
Board of Adjustment shall schedule an evidentiary hearing on the application
for a special use permit to be held within 60 days after the application is
filed.
         (a)   Mailed notice. Those property owners directly affected by a
request heard as an evidentiary hearing shall be notified of the request and
hearing by individual mailed notice. This notice shall be provided to all
adjoining property owners. The property owners shall be determined using best
available county tax records. Planning Department staff shall maintain a record
of those property owners notified, a copy of the mailing itself, and the date
on which the mailing was done. This notice shall be sent via first class mail,
made at least ten days but not more than 25 days prior to the evidentiary
hearing, and shall include information regarding the proposed request, and the
time and place of the hearing.
         (b)   Posted notice. A notice of the evidentiary hearing shall be
posted on the affected site. The county shall determine an appropriate time and
number of postings, so long as the posting provides reasonable notice to
interested parties.
      (2)   Action by the Board of Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment shall
approve, modify, or deny the application for special use permit following the
evidentiary hearing. In granting a special use permit, the Board of Adjustment
shall make written findings that the applicable regulations of the district in
which it is located are fulfilled.
         (a)   Findings of fact. With due regard to the nature and state of all
adjacent structures and uses, the district within which it is located, and
official plans for future development, the Board of Adjustment shall also make
required written findings of fact that the following provisions are fulfilled:
            1.   The requested use will not materially endanger the public
health and safety;
            2.   The requested use meets, or will meet, all required conditions
and specifications;
            3.   The requested use will not substantially injure the value of
adjoining property, or, alternatively, the requested use is or will be a public
necessity;
            4.   The requested use is in harmony with the surrounding area and
compatible with the surrounding neighborhood; and
            5.   The requested use is in general conformance with this chapter,
the land use plan, and other relevant adopted plans.
      (3)   Conditions of approval. The Board of Adjustment applies existing
regulations of this chapter and does not have unlimited discretion to apply
conditions on approval for a special use application unless those conditions
are reasonable and specifically address one or more of the required findings of
fact. Special use permit hearings are not the appropriate place to make policy;
rather, the Board is applying previously set policies to an individual case.
The conditions can be general (e.g., the activity shall not have a significant
adverse effect on neighboring property values and the activity be compatible
with the surrounding neighborhood), specific (e.g., the use shall be located on
a lot of at least 40,000 square feet), or a combination of general and specific
standards. Conditions placed upon a special use permit may include but are not
limited to the following:
         (a)   Such conditions may include a time limitation;
         (b)   Conditions may be imposed which require that one or more things
be done before the use requested can be initiated. (e.g., a solid board fence
shall be erected around the site to a height of six feet before the use
requested is initiated); and/or
         (c)   Conditions of a continuing nature may be imposed (e.g., exterior
loud speakers shall not be used between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.).
      (4)   Abandonment of a special use permit. The Board of Adjustment shall
have the authority to approve the abandonment of a special use permit at the
written and signed request of the permit holder if it determines that:
         (a)   No construction or activity authorized by the special use permit
has been started and the starting time limit has not yet expired; or
         (b)   The development or use authorized by the special use permit no
longer requires a special use permit, and all conditions of the approval have
been satisfied.
      (5)   Revocation of a special use permit. A special use permit may be
revoked by the Board of Adjustment if the permit recipient fails to develop or
maintain the property in accordance with the plans submitted, the requirements
of this chapter, or any additional requirements lawfully imposed by the Board
of Adjustment.
         (a)   Before a special use permit may be revoked, all of the notice
and hearing procedures of the chapter shall be complied with. The notice shall
inform the permit holder of the alleged grounds for the revocation.
         (b)   The burden of presenting evidence sufficient to authorize the
Board of Adjustment to conclude that a special use permit should be revoked for
any reason shall be upon the party advocating that position. The burden of
persuasion shall also be upon that party.
         (c)   A motion to revoke a special use permit shall include, insofar
as practicable, a statement of the specific reasons or findings of fact that
support the motion.
   (B)   Public meeting procedures.
      (1)   Public meeting notification procedures. Notification to the public
for public meetings may be made via one or more of the following methods:
         (a)   Notice of the public meeting shall be posted on the property;
and/or
         (b)   The public meeting shall be open to the public and all
interested persons shall be given the opportunity to present evidence and
arguments and to ask questions of persons who testify.
      (2)   Public hearing notification procedures. Zoning amendments, both
text and map amendments, shall be considered for approval only after a properly
advertised public hearing is held, in compliance with the state general
statutes. Those procedures are outlined herein:
         (a)   Published notice. Notice of the public hearing shall be
published in at least two newspaper advertisements, in a publication of general
circulation in the area affected. The first of the two notices shall be
published at least ten days, but not more than 25 days, prior to the hearing.
The second notice shall appear in a separate calendar week;
         (b)   Mailed notice. Those property owners directly affected by a
zoning map amendment shall be notified of the request and hearing by individual
mailed notice. This notice shall be provided to all adjoining property owners,
as well as to the owners of the property to be rezoned. The property owners
shall be determined using best available county tax records. Planning
Department staff shall maintain a record of those property owners notified, a
copy of the mailing itself, and the date on which the mailing was done. This
notice shall be sent via first class mail, made at least ten days, but not more
than 25 days, prior to the public hearing, and shall include information
regarding the proposed zoning change, and the time and place of the hearing;
         (c)   Posted notice. A notice of the public hearing for a zoning map
amendment shall be posted on the affected site. The county shall determine an
appropriate time and number of postings, so long as the posting provides
reasonable notice to interested parties;
         (d)   Large scale zoning changes. When large scale zoning changes are
proposed, those affecting more than 50 parcels with at least 50 different
property owners, the county may have the option of providing an expanded
published notice instead of individual mailed notices. With this alternative,
the county shall run two half-page newspaper advertisements for the hearing,
post a notice on the site, and mail notice to those property owners who live
outside of the newspaper’s circulation area; and
         (e)   Additional requirements. The county may establish notice
requirements in addition to those required by the state general statutes.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.302 APPEALS.
   (A)   It is the intention of this chapter that all questions arising in
connection with the enforcement of this chapter shall be presented first to the
Administrator. Such questions shall be presented to the Board of Adjustment or
Planning Board only on appeal of a decision of the Administrator or Development
Review Board and within the time limits prescribed in this chapter. Recourse
for appeal of a decision of the Board of Adjustment or Planning Board shall be
to the courts as provided by law. Appeals of the Administrator shall be made to
the Board of Adjustment, except in cases of appeal of the Subdivision
Administrator or Development Review Board, which are appealed to the Planning
Board.
   (B)   An appeal of the Administrator stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action appealed from unless the Administrator certifies to the Board of
Adjustment or Planning Board that by reason of facts stated in the record a
stay would, in his or her opinion, cause eminent peril to life and or property.
In such a case proceedings shall not be stayed other than by an order from the
county’s Superior Court.
      (1)   Appeal of the Administrator. Review of a decision of the
Administrator shall be made by the Board of Adjustment or Planning Board, in
accordance with this chapter, upon request of the aggrieved party within 30
days of the date of the decision. A complete application shall be submitted to
the Planning Department Office, including all required information and
applicable fees. Reviews by the Board of Adjustment or Planning Board of
administrative appeals are quasi-judicial and shall follow the procedural
standards for such.
      (2)   Appeal of the Development Review Board. Review of a decision of the
Development Review Board shall be made to the Planning Board upon request of
the aggrieved party within 30 days of the date of the decision. A complete
application shall be submitted to the Planning Department Office, including all
required information and applicable fees. The Planning Board shall conduct a de
novo review of the Development Review Board decision.
      (3)   Appeal of the Watershed Administrator. Any order, requirements,
decision, or determination made by the Watershed Administrator may be appealed
to and decided by the Watershed Review Board.
         (a)   An appeal from a decision of the Watershed Administrator shall
be submitted to the Watershed Review Board within 30 days from the date the
order, interpretation, decision, or determination is made. All appeals shall be
made in writing stating the reasons for appeal. Following submission of an
appeal, the Watershed Administrator shall transmit to the Board all papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
         (b)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed, unless the Administrator from whom the appeal is taken certifies to
the Board after the notice of appeal has been filed with him or her, that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would in his or her opinion
cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not
be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by a court
of record on application of notice of the Administrator from whom the appeal is
taken and upon due cause shown.
         (c)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for hearing the appeal and
give notice thereof to the parties and shall decide the same within a
reasonable time. At the hearing, any party may appear in person, by agent or by
attorney.
      (4)   Appeal of the Board of Adjustment. Any interested party may seek
review of a decision of the Board of Adjustment in Superior Court in the nature
of certiorari. Any appeal to the Superior Court shall be made within 30
calendar days after the decision of the Board of Adjustment has been filed.
Such decision shall be filed with the Clerk to the Board of Adjustment in the
county’s Planning Department Office.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 153.303 VARIANCES.
   A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter may be requested,
following the provisions of this section, where unusual circumstances specific
to the property exist, and where literal enforcement would result in
unnecessary and undue hardship; provided, however, that the need for the
variance was not caused by the applicant or property owner. This section does
not provide for use variances or enlargement of existing nonconformities beyond
what this chapter provides for. Notice of variance requests shall follow §
153.301(A)(1).
   (A)   Zoning variance procedures. 
      (1)   Zoning regulation variances may be granted in such individual case
of unnecessary hardships only upon findings by the Board of Adjustment after a
public hearing that the following conditions exist. Additionally, the existence
of a nonconforming use on neighboring land, buildings, or structures in the
same district or of permitted or nonconforming uses in other districts shall
not constitute a reason for the requested variances. Individual variances may
be made subject to conditions, as imposed by the Board of Adjustment.
      (2)   No change in permitted uses may be authorized by variance.
Appropriate conditions may be imposed on any variance, provided that the
conditions are reasonably related to the variance. Any other ordinance that
regulates land use or development may provide for variances consistent with the
provisions of this division (A).
      (3)   As per S.L. 2013-126, when unnecessary hardships would result from
carrying out the strict letter of this chapter, the Board of Adjustment shall
vary any of the provisions of the chapter upon a showing of all of the
following:
         (a)   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of
the chapter. It shall not be necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence of
the variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property;
         (b)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size, or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance;
         (c)   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant
or the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance shall not be
regarded as a self-created hardship; and
         (d)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose,
and intent of the chapter, such that public safety is secured, and substantial
justice is achieved.
   (B)   Subdivision variance procedures. The Planning Board may vary from the
design standards and improvements required by this chapter, after finding that
the following conditions exist; however, no variance shall be granted which
conflicts with any other local, state, or federal statutes, ordinances, or
regulations and the subdivider shall submit a written request and justification
for any such variance and the Planning Board may attach to the granting of such
a variance any conditions necessary to ensure that the purpose and intent of
this chapter is not compromised:
      (1)   There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to
the particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape, or
topography that are not applicable to other lands or structures;
      (2)   Granting the variance requested will not confer upon the subdivider
(s) any special privileges that are denied to others;
      (3)   A literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter would
deprive the subdivider(s) of rights commonly enjoyed by others;
      (4)   The requested variance will be in harmony with the purpose and
intent of this chapter and will not be injurious to the neighborhood or to the
general welfare;
      (5)   The special circumstances are not the result of the actions of the
subdivider(s);
      (6)   The variance requested is the minimum needed;
      (7)   The burden of producing substantial evidence to support the
required findings by the Planning Board is clearly upon the applicant(s). The
Planning Board shall deny any request for a variance that is not directly
supported by substantial and credible evidence; and
      (8)   Land uses on adjoining property may be considered by the Planning
Board during its deliberation. However, ownership of any adjoining property by
direct lineal descendants or direct lineal ascendants of the applicant(s) or
subdivider(s) shall not be considered by the Planning Board.
   (C)   Flood damage prevention variance procedures. The following shall
regulate application for variances from the flood damage prevention regulations
of this chapter.
      (1)   Variances may be issued when:
         (a)   The repair of rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and the variance is
the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
         (b)   Functionally dependent facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
153.024; or
         (c)   Any other type of development, provided it meets the
requirements stated in this section.
      (2)   In passing of variances, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all standards specified in other parts of this section,
and:
         (a)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (b)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         (e)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as
defined under §
153.024 as a functionally dependant facility, where applicable;
         (f)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
         (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         (i)   The safety access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
         (j)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         (k)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, water systems, streets, and bridges.
      (3)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance, along with all other variance
application requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and purposes of this
section, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this section.
      (5)   Variances shall not be issued within any designation floodway or
non-encroachment area if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
      (6)   Conditions for variances.
         (a)   Variances may not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
         (b)   Variances shall only be issued upon determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         (c)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            1.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship; and
            3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
         (d)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE)
and the elevation to which the structure is to be built and a written statement
that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk
resulting from the reduced level elevation. Such notification shall be
maintained with a record of all variance actions.
         (e)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
         (f)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and the state upon request.
      (7)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage
facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas provided that all of
the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The use serves a critical need in the community;
         (b)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special
flood hazard area;
         (c)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or floodproofed
to at least the regulatory flood protection elevation;
         (d)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and
local laws; and
         (e)   The county has notified the Secretary of the state’s Department
of Crime Control and Public Safety of its intention to grant a variance at
least 30 calendar days prior to granting the variance.
   (D)   Water supply watershed variance procedures.
      (1)   Applications for a variance shall be made on the proper
application, obtainable from the Watershed Administrator and shall include the
following information:
         (a)   A site plan, drawn to a scale of at least one inch to 40 feet,
indicating:
            1.   The property lines of the parcel upon which the use is
proposed;
            2.   Any existing or proposed structures;
            3.   Parking areas and other built-upon areas;
            4.   Surface water drainage;
            5.   North point;
            6.   Name and address of person who prepared the plan;
            7.   Date of the original drawing; and
            8.   An accurate record of any later revisions.
         (b)   A complete and detailed description of the proposed variance
together with any other pertinent information which the applicant(s) feels
would be helpful to the Watershed Review Board in considering the application
and
         (c)   The Watershed Administrator shall notify in writing each local
government having jurisdiction in the watershed and such other entities using
the water supply for consumption. Such notice shall include a description of
the variance being requested. Local governments receiving notice of the
variance request may submit comments to the Watershed Administrator prior to a
decision by the Watershed Review Board. Such comments shall become a part of
the record of proceedings of the Watershed Review Board.
      (2)   Before the Watershed Review Board may grant a variance, it shall
make the following three findings, which shall be recorded in the permanent
record of the case, and shall include the factual reasons on which they are
based:
         (a)   There are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the
way of carrying out the strict letter of the chapter. In order to determine
that there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships, the Board shall
find that the five following conditions exist:
            1.   If he or she complies with the provisions of the chapter, the
applicant can secure no reasonable return from, nor make reasonable use of his
or her property. Merely proving that the variance would permit a greater profit
to be made from the property will not be considered adequate to justify the
Board in granting a variance. Moreover, the Board shall consider whether the
variance is the minimum possible deviation from the terms of the chapter that
will make possible the reasonable use of his or her property;
            2.   The hardship results from the application of the chapter to
the property rather than from other factors such as deed restrictions or other
hardships;
            3.   The hardship is due to the physical nature of the applicant’s
property, such as its size, shape, or topography, which is different from that
of neighboring property;
            4.   The hardship is not the result of the actions of an applicant
who knowingly or unknowingly violates the chapter, or who purchases the
property after January 1, 1994, and then comes to the Board for relief; and
            5.   The hardship is peculiar to the applicant’s property, rather
than the result of conditions that are widespread. If other properties are
equally subject to the hardship created in the restriction, then granting a
variance would be a special privilege denied to others, and would not promote
equal justice.
         (b)   The variance is in harmony with the general purpose and intent
of the chapter and preserves its spirit; and
         (c)   In the granting of the variance, the public safety and welfare
have been assured and substantial justice has been done. The Board shall not
grant a variance if it finds that doing so would in respect impair the public
health, safety, or general welfare.
      (3)   In granting the variance the Board may attach thereto such
conditions regarding the location, character, and other features of the
proposed building, structure, or use as it may deem advisable in furtherance of
the purpose of this chapter. If a variance for the construction, alteration or
use of property is granted, such construction, alteration, or use shall be in
accordance with the approved site plan.
      (4)   The Watershed Review Board shall refuse to hear an appeal or an
application for a variance previously denied if it finds that there have been
no substantial changes in conditions or circumstances bearing on the appeal or
application.
      (5)   A variance issued in accordance with this section shall be
considered a watershed protection permit and shall expire if a building permit
or watershed occupancy permit for such use is not obtained by the applicant
within six months from the date of the decision.
      (6)   If the application calls for the granting of a major variance, and
if the Watershed Review Board decides in favor of granting the variance, the
Board shall prepare a preliminary record of the hearing. The preliminary record
of the hearing shall include:
         (a)   The variance application;
         (b)   The hearing notices;
         (c)   The evidence presented;
         (d)   Motions, offers of proof, objections to evidence, and rulings on
them;
         (e)   Proposed findings and exceptions; and
         (f)   The proposed decision, including all conditions proposed to be
added to the permit.
      (7)   The preliminary record shall be sent to the Environmental
Management Commission for its review as follows:
         (a)   1.   If the Commission concludes from the preliminary record
that the variance qualifies as a major variance and that:
               a.    The property owner(s) can secure no reasonable return
from, nor make any practical use of the property unless the proposed variance
is granted; and
               b.   The variance, if granted, will not result in a serious
threat to the water supply, then the Commission shall approve the variance as
proposed or approve the proposed variance with conditions and stipulations.
            2.   The Commission shall prepare a Commission decision and send it
to the Watershed Review Board. If the Commission approves the variance as
proposed, the Board shall prepare a final decision granting the proposed
variance. If the Commission approves the variance with conditions and
stipulations, the Board shall prepare a final decision, including such
conditions and stipulations, granting the proposed variance.
         (b)   1.   If the Commission concludes from the preliminary record
that the variance qualifies as a major variance and that:
               a.   The property owner(s) can secure a reasonable return from
or make a practical use of the property without the variance; or
               b.   The variance, if granted, will result in a serious threat
to the water supply, then the Commission shall deny approval of the variance as
proposed.
            2.   a.   The Commission shall prepare a Commission decision and
send it to the Watershed Review Board.
               b.   The Board shall prepare a final decision denying the
variance as proposed.
   (E)   Airport height control variance procedures. 
      (1)   The application for variance shall be accompanied by a
determination from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) as to the effect
of the proposal on the operation of air navigation facilities and the safe,
efficient use of navigable airspace. Such variances shall be allowed where it
is duly found that a literal application or enforcement of the regulations will
result in unnecessary hardship, and relief granted will not be contrary to the
public interest, will not create a hazard to air navigation, will do
substantial justice, and will be in accordance with the spirit of this section.
Additionally, no application for variance to the requirements of this chapter
may be considered by the Board of Adjustment unless a copy of the application
has been furnished to the Harnett County Airport through the Planning
Department and Airport Administrator, or other designated county department
head, for advice as to the aeronautical effects of the variance.
      (2)   Variances shall be allowed where it is duly found that:
         (a)   A literal application or enforcement of the regulations will
result in unnecessary hardship;
         (b)   Relief granted, will not be contrary to the public interest,
         (c)   Relief granted will not create a hazard to air navigation;
         (d)    Relief granted will do substantial justice; and
         (e)   Relief granted will be in accordance with the spirit of the
chapter.
      (3)   (a)   Additionally, no application for variance to the requirements
of this chapter may be considered by the Board of Adjustment unless a copy of
the application has been furnished to the Airport Administrator for advice as
to the aeronautical effects of the variance.
         (b)   If, however, failure of the Airport Administrator to provide a
recommendation within 45 days of his or her receipt of the variance request
shall be considered a recommendation for approval.
   (F)   Administrative variance procedures. The Administrator shall have the
authority to issue an administrative variance for the zoning regulations of
this chapter following the regulations listed herein: encroachments of a
principal building into any required yard up to a maximum of 10% of the
applicable required yard setback provided that:
      (1)   The request involves only one encroachment into one required yard
per lot;
      (2)   The encroachment is a result of a construction error by the
property owner or a person acting on his or her behalf;
      (3)   The encroachment cannot be corrected without substantial hardship
and expense to the property owner; and
      (4)   The encroachment, if approved, will not substantially interfere
with the convenient and enjoyable use of adjacent properties and will not pose
any substantial danger to the public health and safety.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 2-17-2014)
§ 153.304 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Judicial review, as provided by the state, shall follow the procedures
outlined by the state general statutes.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.315 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   General. The Manager of Planning Services or his or her authorized
agent shall be the Administrator. The Administrator shall administer and
enforce this chapter, and shall set forth procedure deemed necessary and
appropriate to ensure this chapter is properly administered and enforced. If
the Administrator or his or her designee finds that any provisions of the
chapter are being violated, notification shall be given to the property owner
(s) indicating the nature of the violation and ordering corrective action.
   (B)   Duty to investigate. When the Administrator finds a violation of this
chapter or receives a complaint alleging a violation of this chapter, it shall
be his or her duty to investigate the complaint and determine whether a
violation exists.
   (C)   Emergency enforcement. In cases where delay would seriously threaten
the effective enforcement of this chapter or pose a danger to the public
health, safety, or welfare, the Administrator may seek enforcement of this
chapter without prior written notice by invoking any of the penalties or
remedies herein authorized.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.316 AUTHORITY.
   The county shall enforce this chapter under the authority of G.S. Chapter
160D.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 11-16-2020) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.317 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   General. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter to
establish, create, expand, alter, occupy, or maintain any use, land development
activity, or structure, including, but not limited to, signs, and buildings,
that violates or is inconsistent with any provisions of this chapter or any
other approval, or authorization issued pursuant to this chapter. Approvals and
authorizations include, but are not limited to: special use permits, sign
permits, certificates of compliance, variances, building permits, development
plans, site plans, and conditions of such permits, variances, and plans.
   (B)   Approval required. It shall also be a violation to engage in any
construction, land development activity, or use, without all approvals and
authorizations required by this chapter.
   (C)   Separate offense. Each day that a violation continues after
notification by the Administrator, such violation shall be considered a
separate offense for purpose of penalties and remedies specified herein.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 11-16-2020) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.318 INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   Program. A program of inspection and investigations to determine
compliance with this chapter and orders, plans, permits, and authorizations
issued under this chapter is hereby authorized. This program shall be conducted
and carried out under the general authority of the Manager of Planning
Services, or designee. Violations of this chapter that are deemed to be in
violation of other local, state, or federal agency regulations may be forwarded
to those agencies for further review and action.
   (B)   Inspections on private property. Inspections on private property to
determine compliance may be made at any reasonable time with consent of the
occupant or property owner upon presentation of credentials. Inspections may
also be made when an administrative search and inspection warrant has been
issued pursuant to G.S. § 15-27.2 by a proper judicial official. To obtain a
warrant, the Administrator shall show through facts supplied in a sworn
affidavit that either:
      (1)   The inspection is being conducted as part of an administrative plan
to inspect all properties of a certain type, and the determination of the
properties to inspect was made in accordance with neutral criteria; or
      (2)   There is probable cause for believing that a violation may exist.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.319 NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   General. The Administrator shall notify the owner(s) of property and/
or permittee(s) found to be in violation of this chapter in writing by personal
delivery, electronic delivery, or first class mail. Notifications may be
provided by similar means to the occupant(s) of the property or person(s)
undertaking an activity found to be in violation. The notice of violation shall
give a description of the violation and its location, the measures necessary to
correct it, the possibility of civil penalties and judicial enforcement action,
and notice of the right to appeal. The notice shall also state the time period
allowed, if any, to correct the violation. Time period for compliance may vary
depending on the nature of the violation.
   (B)   Posted notice of violations. The Administrator may give notice by way
of posting notice of the violation conspicuously on the property. The official
providing the notice of violation shall certify to the local government that
the notice was provided and the certificate shall be deemed conclusive in the
absence of fraud. The posting of the notice of violation is considered county
property and removal of the posting shall be considered a criminal offense.
Once the posting has been made, whether or not the posting has been removed, it
shall be treated as official notice of the violation.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 11-16-2020) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.320 REMEDIES.
   (A)   General. In order to ensure compliance with the provisions stated in
this chapter, the Administrator may utilize the following remedies to prevent,
correct, or abate a violation. In a situation where a development approval is
called to be revoked, the Administrator shall follow that same process as
utilized for approval.
      (1)   Order the discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings, or
structures;
      (2)   Order removal of illegal motor vehicles, signs, buildings,
structures, additions, alterations, or structural changes thereto;
      (3)   Order the discontinuance of any illegal work being done;
      (4)   Call for denial or withhold approval of any permit provided for in
this chapter that is sought for the property on which the violation exists
until such time that the violation is remedied;
      (5)   Revoke any permit issued in conjunction with this chapter (see §§
153.300 through
153.304 for the procedure for revocation of special use permits);
      (6)   Revoke any required certificate of zoning compliance due to failure
to comply with this chapter; and/or
      (7)   Withhold any permit or license provided for in this chapter for a
property, or property under development, that is in violation of this chapter,
or any other state or federal regulations.
   (B)   Forfeiture and confiscation of signs. Any illegal sign installed or
placed on public property or within the public right-of-way shall be subject to
forfeiture to the public and confiscated. The county shall retain such illegal
signs for a minimum period of seven days at the Planning Department Office.
Upon initial violation of this section, the Planning Department shall make one
attempt to notify the property and/or sign owner(s). Notification of the
initial violation shall be deemed sufficient and additional notification shall
not be required for subsequent violations by the same owner. In addition to
other remedies and penalties of this chapter, the county has the right to
recover from the sign owner, or person who placed the sign, all applicable
fees.
   (C)   Conservation Zoning District and Natural Resource violations. Any
violation of §§
153.205 through
153.262 and/or
153.090 shall be remedied by returning the subject area to the condition(s)
prior to the violation.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 5-18-2015; Res. passed 11-16-2020)
Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.321 COMPLIANCE PERIOD.
   (A)   A specified time frame shall be given to render compliance to a
violation as noted in the notice of violation. A mandatory re-inspection shall
take place to evaluate the status of the violation at the end of the compliance
period. An extension may be requested by the property owner in writing to the
Administrator providing valid evidence as to the reason for failure to comply
within the specified time. If compliance is not rendered nor an extension is
granted, the Administrator shall proceed with the assessment of penalties as
described in §
153.999. Compliance periods shall be in conjunction with the severity of the
violation.
   (B)   The Administrator shall have the ability to amend the specific time
period for compliance due to the nature of the violation if considerable work
has been done in an attempt to remedy the violation or if such violation is
determined to be a potential risk to the public health, safety, and general
welfare.
Nature of Violation Specified Compliance Period
Nature of Violation                            Specified Compliance Period
Abandoned manufactured homes                   60 calendar days
All other regulations                          30 calendar days
Illegal signs                                  0-5 calendar days
Junked/abandoned vehicles                      5 calendar days
Landscaping and plantings                      180 calendar days
Manufactured home park/certificate of zoning   30 calendar days
compliance
Subsequent violations                          0 calendar days
Zoning, subdivision, and historic preservation 30 calendar days
regulations
 
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Res. passed 5-18-2015) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.322 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by the notice of violation has 30 days to appeal
the action of the Administrator to the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   Beyond the decision of the Board of Adjustment, recourse shall be to
the courts as provided by law.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   The Administrator shall be authorized to use any one or more of the methods
described in this section, or action authorized by law, to ensure compliance
with or to prevent a violation of the provisions of this chapter.
   (A)   Civil penalties. Any person who violates any provisions of this
chapter may be subject to assessment of the maximum civil penalty of up to $500
per violation.
      (1)   Civil citations. A civil citation shall be issued to any person(s)
failing to take corrective action within the specific compliance period given
by the Administrator after receiving written notice from the county’s Planning
Department. Each day the violation exists after the expiration of the
compliance period shall constitute a separate offense and be charged as a
separate violation. Each violation shall be subject to a civil penalty in the
amount of $100 per day until the violation has reached compliance. Failure to
pay the penalty within 15 days from the receipt of the notice of civil penalty
shall subject themselves to a civil action in the nature of debt for the stated
penalty plus any additional penalties, together with the cost of the action to
be taxed by the court.
      (2)   Citation content. A citation issues for a violation of this chapter
shall, among other things:
         (a)   State upon its face the amount of the penalty for the specific
violation if the penalty is paid within 15 days from and after issuance of the
citation;
         (b)   Notify the offender that a failure to pay the penalty within the
prescribed time shall subject the offender to a civil action in the nature of
debt for the stated penalty plus any additional penalties, together with the
cost of the action to be taxed by the court;
         (c)   Further provide that the offender may answer the citation by
mailing the citation and the stated penalty to Post Office Box 65, Lillington
North Carolina, 27546, or may pay the amount in person at the county’s Planning
Department Office; and/or
         (d)   State that a citation following the original notice of violation
shall be appealed to the Board of Adjustment.
      (3)   Settlement of civil claim. The county’s Planning Department is
authorized to accept payment in full and final settlement of the claim(s),
right or rights of action which the county may have to enforce such penalty by
civil action in the nature of debt. Acceptance of a penalty shall be deemed a
full and final release of any and all claims, or right of action arising out of
contended violations, only if the activities or non-activities which gave rise
to the violations are abated or otherwise made lawful.
      (4)   Additional penalty. A penalty of $25, in addition to the one
imposed for payment within 15 days, shall apply in those cases in which the
penalties prescribed in this section have not been paid within the prescribed
15 days period and in which a civil action shall have been instituted.
   (B)   Criminal prosecution. Violations of this chapter may constitute a
misdemeanor or infraction penalty and is punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-
4 and the maximum fine; term of imprisonment or infraction penalty allowed by
law is hereby authorized.
   (C)   Injunction. Enforcement may also be achieved by injunction. When a
violation occurs the county may either before or after the institution of any
other authorized action or proceeding, apply to the appropriate division of the
General Court of Justice for a mandatory or prohibitory injunction commanding
the defendant, or in the case of counterclaims the plaintiff, to correct the
unlawful condition or cease the unlawful use of the property.
   (D)   Order of abatement. 
      (1)   The county may apply for, and the court may enter, an order of
abatement. An order of abatement may direct:
         (a)   The buildings or other structures on the property be closed,
demolished, or removed; that fixtures, furniture, or other moveable property be
removed;
         (b)   That improvements or repairs be made; or
         (c)   That any other action be taken that is necessary to bring
property into compliance with this chapter.
      (2)   Whenever the party is cited for contempt by the court and the
county executed the order of abatement the county shall have a lien, in the
nature of a mechanic’s and material man’s on the property for the cost of
executing the order of abatement.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Ord. 2022-04, passed 2-21-2022)
CHAPTER 154: COMMUNICATIONS TOWER ORDINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Title
   
154.02   Purpose
   
154.03   Authority
   
154.04   Jurisdiction
   
154.05   Existing communications towers
   
154.06   Exempt towers
   
154.07   Discontinued use
   
154.08   Definitions
Requirements for All Towers and Associated Equipment
   
154.20   Building Code requirements
   
154.21   ANSI standards (electro magnetic force - EMF)
   
154.22   Television and radio frequency
   
154.23   Signs
   
154.24   Color
   
154.25   Lighting
   
154.26   Fencing
Permits
   
154.35   Level I - amateur radio towers
   
154.36   Level II - co-location, alternative structure placement and
replacement towers
   
154.37   Level III - new towers
Administration
   
154.45   Generally
   
154.46   Establishment of the Communications Tower Review Board
   
154.47   Rules of conduct for members
   
154.48   Powers and duties of the Communications Tower Review Board
   
154.49   Enforcement
   
154.50   Fees
   
154.51   Filing and notice of an appeal
   
154.52   Fees for variances or appeals
   
154.53   Amendment
   
154.54   Conflicts
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Communications Tower
Ordinance of Harnett County, North Carolina.”
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000; Ord. passed 6-17-2002)
§ 154.02 PURPOSE.
   The regulations as set forth in this chapter have been made for the purpose
of promoting the health, safety and general welfare of county residents.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000; Ord. passed 6-17-2002)
§ 154.03 AUTHORITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are adopted under authority granted by the
General Assembly of North Carolina with particular reference to G.S. Chapter
153A, Article 6.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000; Ord. passed 6-17-2002)
§ 154.04 JURISDICTION.
   These regulations shall govern the establishment and maintenance of
communications towers. Provisions of this chapter shall apply uniformly to all
areas within the jurisdiction of the county.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000; Ord. passed 6-17-2002)
§ 154.05 EXISTING COMMUNICATIONS TOWERS.
   Communications towers existing and those who have received a permit before
the adoption of this chapter shall be allowed to operate as long as they meet
the previous requirements set forth by the county. Existing towers shall not be
allowed to expand or increase in size unless such expansion meets the
requirements of this chapter. Co-location is encouraged but not required of
towers developed or permitted before the adoption of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000; Ord. passed 6-17-2002)
§ 154.06 EXEMPT TOWERS.
   Towers constructed or permitted prior to the effective date of this chapter
and any tower less than 50 feet in height are exempt from the terms of this
chapter. If an antenna mounted on an alternative structure or tower does not
extend more than 20 feet higher than the structure or tower, such construction
is exempt from the terms of this chapter. Exemption herein does not constitute
exemption from any other applicable federal, state, local law or regulation.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000; Ord. passed 6-17-2002)
§ 154.07 DISCONTINUED USE.
   Notice shall be provided to the County Planning Department when the use of a
communications tower is discontinued. If the use of the communications tower
has been discontinued for a continuous period of 180 days, then the tower
owner/operator or the tower site owner shall remove the tower, including tower
base, within 90 days. The tower owner/operator and the tower site owner shall
be jointly and severally responsible for such removal.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000; Ord. passed 6-17-2002)
§ 154.08 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in the present tense include the future tense. Words used in the singular
number include the plural and words used in the plural number include the
singular. The word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely directory. The
word “may” is permissive. The words “used” or “occupied” include the words
intended, designed or arranged to be used or occupied.
   ALTERNATIVE STRUCTURE. A structure that is not primarily constructed for the
purpose of holding antennas but on which one or more antennas may be mounted.
ALTERNATIVE STRUCTURES include, but are not limited to, buildings, water tanks,
pole signs, billboards, church steeples and electric power transmission towers.
   AMATEUR RADIO TOWER. Any tower used for amateur radio transmissions
consistent with the “Complete FCC U.S. Amateur Part 97 Rules and Regulations”
for amateur radio towers.
   ANTENNA. Any exterior transmitting or receiving device which radiates or
captures electromagnetic waves.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. The Board of Adjustment consists of five members and
five alternates who shall be citizens of the county. These members shall be
appointed by the Board of County Commissioners for three-year terms and shall
serve as the County Communications Tower Review Board. Alternates shall also be
appointed to three-year terms.
   CO-LOCATION. The placement of an additional antenna on an existing tower,
including required support equipment and buildings at the base of the tower and
any necessary modification to the structure of the existing tower.
   COMMUNICATIONS TOWER (TOWER). Any structure that is designed and built for
the purpose of supporting one or more antennas, including self-supporting
lattice towers, guyed towers or monopole towers. The term includes radio and
television transmission towers, personal communications service towers (PCS),
microwave towers, common-carrier towers and cellular telephone towers.
   PERMIT (LEVEL I). The permit issued by the Ordinance Administrator as
designated by this chapter to an individual, corporation, partnership or other
entity to engage in the creation of amateur radio tower which exceeds 50 feet.
   PERMIT (LEVEL II). The permit issued by the Ordinance Administrator as
designated by this chapter to an individual, corporation, partnership or other
entity to engage in co-location, alternative structure placement and/or tower
replacement (replacement tower) excluding amateur radio towers.
   PERMIT (LEVEL III). The permit issued by the Ordinance Administrator as
designated by this chapter to an individual, corporation, partnership or other
entity to engage in the creation of new towers, excluding amateur radio towers.
   REPLACEMENT TOWER. A new communications tower intended to replace an
existing tower meeting the requirements of this chapter.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which required
permanent location on the ground or attachment to something having a permanent
location on the ground, including advertising signs.
   TOWER BASE. The foundation, usually concrete, on which the tower and other
support equipment are situated. For measurement calculations, the tower base is
that point on the foundation reached by dropping a perpendicular from the
geometric center of the tower.
   TOWER HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the tower base to the
highest point of the tower, including any antenna, lighting or other equipment
affixed thereto.
   TOWER SITE. The land area that contains, or will contain, a proposed tower,
support structures and other related buildings and improvements.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the terms of this chapter where, owing to
conditions peculiar to the property, a literal enforcement of this chapter
would result in an unnecessary hardship. A VARIANCE shall be reviewed and
issued by the Telecommunications Tower Review Board.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000; Ord. passed 6-17-2002)
REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL TOWERS AND ASSOCIATED EQUIPMENT
§ 154.20 BUILDING CODE REQUIREMENTS.
   Towers shall be constructed and maintained in conformance with all
applicable Building Code requirements.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000; Ord. passed 6-17-2002)
§ 154.21 ANSI STANDARDS (ELECTRO MAGNETIC FORCE - EMF).
   Any communications antennas or other equipment placed on towers or
alternative structures shall not exceed the emission output levels specified by
federally approved levels or the American National Standard Institute (ANSI)
standards for power density, which ever provides the stricter requirements.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000; Ord. passed 6-17-2002) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.22 TELEVISION AND RADIO FREQUENCY.
   Towers shall not interfere with normal radio and television reception in the
vicinity.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000; Ord. passed 6-17-2002) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.23 SIGNS.
   A sign, not to exceed eight square feet, which includes the name of the
tower owner/operator and a telephone number for emergencies, shall be displayed
in a visible location attached to the fence at or adjacent to the gate. No sign
may be placed on the tower for commercial advertisement purposes. Warning and
no trespassing signs are permitted and encouraged.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000; Ord. passed 6-17-2002) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.24 COLOR.
   Towers shall be light gray or any other color that blends into the
environment in which the tower is located, except when otherwise required by
applicable federal and state law or regulations.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000; Ord. passed 6-17-2002)
§ 154.25 LIGHTING.
   Towers shall not be artificially lighted unless required by the Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA) or other federal or state authority and in no
case shall exceed the required minimum. Ground level security lighting may be
permitted if designed to minimize impacts on adjacent properties.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000; Ord. passed 6-17-2002) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.26 FENCING.
   A security fence of commercial grade chain-link of at least eight feet in
height shall surround the base of the tower, the base of any guy wires and
associated buildings. A locking gate shall be part of this security fence.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000; Ord. passed 6-17-2002) Penalty, see §
154.99
PERMITS
§ 154.35 LEVEL I - AMATEUR RADIO TOWERS.
   (A)   Application requirements. Permit (Level I) applications shall contain
the following:
      (1)   Completion of the “Communications Tower Ordinance of Harnett County
North Carolina Application Permit”;
      (2)   Application fee;
      (3)   Site plan (drawn to scale); and
      (4)   Applicant shall provide a valid FCC amateur operator’s license.
   (B)   Tower height. Tower height and location shall comply with federal and
state law. Towers shall not exceed 199 feet unless FCC approval is
demonstrated.
   (C)   Minimum setback requirements. A distance equal to the height of the
tower shall separate new amateur radio towers from all structures (not located
on the same parcel as the tower), property lines, right-of-way lines and/or
easements. Any relocation must comply with current ordinance setback
requirements, or if compliance is not possible, the relocation must not
increase the amount by which setbacks are nonconforming, other than increases
necessitated solely by changes in size of the base to support the new tower.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000; Ord. passed 6-17-2002) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.36 LEVEL II - CO-LOCATION, ALTERNATIVE STRUCTURE PLACEMENT AND
REPLACEMENT TOWERS.
   (A)   Application requirements for permit (Level II). Permit (Level II)
applications shall contain the following:
      (1)   Completion of the “Communications Tower Ordinance of Harnett County
North Carolina Application Permit”;
      (2)   Application fee;
      (3)   Site plan (drawn to scale); and
      (4)   Structural engineer certification.
   (B)   Co-location. The county requires co-location of antennas on existing
communications towers where co-location is possible. Upon enactment of this
chapter, any person, corporation, partnership or other entity which intends to
co-locate on an existing communications tower within the jurisdiction of this
chapter which adds more than 20 feet to the tower, must obtain a permit (Level
II).
   (C)   Alternative structure placement. A structure which is not primarily
constructed for the purpose of holding antennas but on which one or more
antennas may be mounted. Upon enactment of this chapter, any person,
corporation, partnership or other entity which intends to place an antenna on
an alternative structure within the jurisdiction of this chapter which adds
more than 20 feet to the structure, must obtain a permit (Level II).
   (D)   Replacement tower.  
      (1)   A new communications tower intended to replace an existing tower
where the new tower meets the following requirements:
         (a)   Located on the same parcel as the existing tower;
         (b)   No higher than the original tower;
         (c)   Any relocation must comply with current ordinance setback
requirements, or if compliance is not possible, the relocation must not
increase the amount by which setbacks are nonconforming, other than increases
necessitated solely by changes in size of the base to support the new tower.
      (2)   Any replacement tower which meets the criteria set forth above must
obtain a permit (Level II). Any replacement tower which does not meet the
criteria set forth above shall be considered a new tower subject to all
provisions of this chapter and must obtain a permit (Level III). The existing
tower, including tower base, must be removed within 90 days of the construction
of the new tower.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000; Ord. passed 6-17-2002) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.37 LEVEL III - NEW TOWERS.
   (A)   Application requirements for permit (Level III). Application
information including:
      (1)   Completion of the “Communications Tower Ordinance of Harnett
County, North Carolina Application Permit”;
      (2)   Application fee;
      (3)   Site plan prepared by an active North Carolina Registered Land
Surveyor, Professional Engineer or Landscape Architect (drawn to scale)
including:
         (a)   Names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the applicant and the
property owner;
         (b)   Deed book/page and map book/page reference;
         (c)   Name of project development;
         (d)   The plan scale, a north arrow and a vicinity map;
         (e)   Zoning district classification;
         (f)   Watershed classification - percent coverage of lot to be
impervious surface (if located in a designated watershed area);
         (g)   Tax parcel identification number for the parcel of land
containing the tower site and the towers latitude and longitude coordinates;
         (h)   The name address, signature and seal of the person who prepared
the site plan;
         (i)   Locations and widths of all easements and right-of-ways within
and adjacent to the site;
         (j)   Location of existing and/or proposed parking, fencing, screening
and gates;
         (k)   Location of existing and/or proposed plant materials (including
the size and type of plant);
         (l)   Location of all parking on site;
         (m)   The surveyed boundary lines of the parcel, or portion thereof,
that will contain the proposed tower. An active North Carolina Registered Land
Surveyor shall survey such boundary lines;
         (n)   The general location of boundary lines of any parcel or portion
thereof within a radius from the tower base to the proposed tower height;
         (o)   All identifiable buildings and structures (including existing
towers) roads and perennial streams located on the parcel containing the tower
site and within a radius from the tower base equal to the tower height;
         (p)   The tower base and the foundations for all guyed line anchors
and support structures, all proposed buildings, accessory structures and any
other proposed improvements, including roads and utilities serving the proposed
site; and
         (q)   The ground elevation of the base of the proposed tower to the
nearest foot.
      (4)   Structural engineer certification;
      (5)   Tower sketch that includes dimensions, accessory structures and
antennas;
      (6)   Statement regarding accommodation of additional user(s);
      (7)   The applicant shall be responsible for providing the names,
addresses and parcel identification numbers of all property owners within the
application and all adjoining property owners insofar as the applicant is able
to obtain the these name and addresses, through personal knowledge, to the
County Tax Office or County Land Records Office;
      (8)   The applicant must submit a recorded legal description of the tower
site and ingress/egress easement to the site;
      (9)   An area map indicating the proposed tower and coverage, other tower
and coverage areas and any approved tower sites within a five-mile radius;
      (10)   Evidence of lack of alternative site - documentation which shows
that a reasonable effort has been made to co-locate a proposed antenna for a
communications tower on an existing tower or alternative structure and that
there are no feasible alternative to constructing the proposed tower because
the owner of an existing tower or alternative structure which could be used for
an antenna is unwilling to allow the co-location or because no tower or
structure exists which could provide coverage to the proposed service area; is
structurally capable of supporting the intended equipment; is the proper
height; or would not cause frequency interference.
   (B)   Minimal impact. Tower owners should always exercise best efforts in
the placement of communications towers so that they have minimal impact on
adjacent residents and landowners. The following standards shall be in effect
for all new towers and compliance therewith is required for all new towers and
shall be conclusive proof of best efforts on the part of the tower owners. Note
that in most cases, the standards are more relaxed on monopole towers.
   (C)   Separation from existing communication towers. New monopole towers
shall be located at least one-half mile from any existing or permitted tower of
any type (monopole, lattice or guyed) which is greater than 150 feet in height.
New lattice or guyed towers shall be located at least one mile from any
existing or permitted tower, of any type, which is greater than 150 feet in
height.
   (D)   Minimum setback requirements. A distance equal to 75% of the proposed
tower height shall separate new monopole towers from all structures, property
lines, right-of-way lines and/or easements. A distance equal to the height of
the proposed tower shall separate new lattice or guyed towers from all
structures, property lines and/or right-of-way lines.
   (E)   Compliance with federal and state regulations. The applicant, owner or
developer shall certify that the proposed tower will be constructed and
operated in accordance with all applicable local, state and federal
regulations, including, but not limited to, all FCC and FAA rules and
guidelines.
   (F)   Design to accommodate additional user. Tower design shall allow for
the co-location of other service provider(s) at a fair market value. If the
tower is less than 150 feet, it shall be designed to accommodate one additional
service provider. If the tower is between 150 and 300 feet in height, it shall
be designed to accommodate a minimum of two additional service providers.
   (G)   Option to county on co-location opportunity. For all new towers, the
applicant shall give the county the option of co-locating, for governmental
use, where such co-location will not interfere with other providers. There
shall be no access fee charged for said co-location.
   (H)   Easements. An easement of no less than 30 feet wide is required for
each new communications tower as in the Subdivision Ordinance for the county.
   (I)   Buffer zones/landscaping.
      (1)   A landscape buffer shall be required in the setback space. The
buffer for lattice and guyed towers shall be 60 feet. The buffer for monopole
towers shall be 30 feet. The buffer may be measured inward from the property
and right-of-way lines, or outward from the fence that surrounds the tower
compound.
      (2)   Landscaping shall be as follows:
         (a)   Buffers shall consist of planting evergreens and/or deciduous
trees spaced no more than 20 feet apart;
         (b)   Trees shall be six to seven feet tall for evergreens at the time
of planting and shall reach a height of no less than 30 feet at maturity;
         (c)   Planting of low growing shrubs and/or trees shall be placed at
ten-foot intervals;
         (d)   The buffer zone shall not be in, and no planting shall be placed
in, the road right-of-way;
         (e)   The buffer must be maintained for the life of the tower; and
         (f)   A landscape plan shall be submitted as part of the wireless
communications facility permit being applied for under this subchapter.
   (J)   Tower height limitations. The height of any communications tower shall
be limited to 300 feet.
   (K)   Biennial certification of tower use. There must be written notice
given to the County Planning Department biennial that each tower is still in
normal operation. The period for biennial notification will begin the date the
permit was issued.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000; Ord. passed 6-17-2002) Penalty, see §
154.99
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.45 GENERALLY.
   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the County Chief Planner
or his or her designee and is hereby appointed in that capacity through
adoption of this chapter. The county may, through contract, secure the
professional services of telecommunications consultants to assist county staff
in the implementation of this chapter. Such professional, services include, but
are not limited to, review and evaluation of permit applications, determination
of compliance with existing and proposed federal regulations, minimization of
the aesthetic impact, review of the technical data and expert testimony as
needed.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000; Ord. passed 6-17-2002)
§ 154.46 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE COMMUNICATIONS TOWER REVIEW BOARD.
   There is hereby created a Communications Tower Review Board which shall be
the County Board of Adjustment, including its alternates, serving at the time
of adoption of this chapter and its duly appointed successor Boards.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000; Ord. passed 6-17-2002)
§ 154.47 RULES OF CONDUCT FOR MEMBERS.
   The Communications Tower Review Board shall operate consistent with the
adopted by-laws for the County Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000; Ord. passed 6-17-2002)
§ 154.48 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE COMMUNICATIONS TOWER REVIEW BOARD.
   The Communications Review Board shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   Administrative review. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
there is error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the
Ordinance Administrator in the enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   Variances. The Communications Tower Review Board shall have the power
to authorize, in
specific cases, minor variances from the terms of this chapter as will not be
contrary to the public interests where, owing to special condition, a literal
interpretation of this chapter will result in practical difficulties or
unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of this chapter shall be observed,
public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done. Such variances
may be granted in such individual case of unnecessary hardships only upon
findings of the Communications Tower Review Board after a public hearing that
the following conditions exist:
      (1)   There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to
the particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape, or
topography that are not applicable to other lands or structures;
      (2)   Granting the variance requested will not confer upon the applicant
any special privileges that are denied to other residents of the district in
which the property is located;
      (3)   A literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other residents of the
district in which the property is located;
      (4)   The requested variance will be in harmony with the purpose and
intent of this chapter and will not be injurious to the neighborhood or to the
general welfare;
      (5)   The special circumstances are not the result of the actions of the
applicant; and
      (6)   The variance requested is the minimum variance that will make
possible the legal use of the land, building or structure.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000; Ord. passed 6-17-2002)
§ 154.49 ENFORCEMENT.
   If the Ordinance Administrator shall find that any of the provisions of this
chapter are being violated, it shall notify in writing the person responsible
for the violation, specifying the nature of the violation and what corrective
measures must be taken. The Ordinance Administrator shall order discontinuance
of illegal use of land, buildings or structures; removal of illegal buildings
or structures or of additions, alterations, or structural changes thereto;
discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall take any other action
authorized by law to insure compliance with or to prevent violation of the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000; Ord. passed 6-17-2002)
§ 154.50 FEES.
   The County Board of Commissioners shall set a fee, payable to the County
Planning Department, to cover the necessary processing cost of all
communications tower permits. The set fee shall be posted in the Planning
Department.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000; Ord. passed 6-17-2002)
§ 154.51 FILING AND NOTICE OF AN APPEAL.
   Appeals from the enforcement and interpretation of this chapter and requests
for variances shall be filed with the Ordinance Administrator specifying the
grounds thereof. The Ordinance Administrator shall transmit to the
Telecommunications Tower Review Board all applications and records pertaining
to such appeals and variances. The Board shall fix a 30-day period for the
hearing of appeals, giving notice to all participants by first class mail. An
appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from unless
the Ordinance Administrator certifies to the Board that by reason of facts
stated in the record a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause eminent peril
to life and or property. In such a case, proceedings shall not be stayed other
than by an order from the County Superior Court.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000; Ord. passed 6-17-2002)
§ 154.52 FEES FOR VARIANCES OR APPEALS.
   The County Board of Commissioners shall set a fee, payable to the county to
cover the necessary administrative costs and advertising of each application
for a variance or appeal. The set fee shall be posted in the County’s Planning
Department office.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000; Ord. passed 6-17-2002)
§ 154.53 AMENDMENT.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners may from time-to-time amend the
terms of this chapter (but no amendment shall become effective unless it shall
have been proposed by or shall have been submitted to the Planning Board for
review and recommendation.) If the Planning Board fails to submit a report
within 30 days of the public hearing by the County Board of Commissioners, the
proposed amendment shall be deemed to have recommended approval by the Planning
Board.
   (B)   No amendment shall be adopted by the governing body until they have
held a public hearing on the amendment. Notice of the hearing shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the county at least once a
week for two successive weeks prior to the hearing, the first publication being
not less than ten days nor more than 25 days before the date of the hearing. In
computing the ten-day, 25-day period, the date of publication is not to be
counted, but the date of the hearing is to be counted.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000; Ord. passed 6-17-2002)
§ 154.54 CONFLICTS.
   When the requirements of this chapter conflict with the requirements of
other lawfully adopted rules, regulations or ordinances of the county or deeds
restrictions imposed by the developer or subdivider, the more stringent
requirements shall govern.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000; Ord. passed 6-17-2002)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any person failing to take corrective action within a reasonable time after
receiving written notice from the County Planning Office and any person
operating a communications tower without a valid permit shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and may be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 or imprisonment
not to exceed 30 days. Each day such violation shall be permitted to exist
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000; Ord. passed 6-17-2002)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section                     Code Section
1A-1, Rule 4                     132.03,
                                 132.05
Chapter 7A, Article 19           132.05
Chapter 14                       91.99
                                 116.05,
Chapter 14, Article 26           116.08,
                                 116.10
                                 116.05,
Chapter 14, Article 27           116.08,
                                 116.10
                                 50.99,
                                 52.999,
                                 90.99,
                                 92.99,
14-4                             93.99,
                                 111.99,
                                 112.02,
                                 112.33,
                                 150.99,
                                 153.999
14-4(a), (c)                     10.99
14-409.46                        92.28
14-415.23(d)                     130.25
15-27.2                          153.318
18B-1000                         153.021
18B-1001                         118.01
20-16(c)                         132.04
20-54(11)                        132.04
                                 132.02,
20-217                           132.05,
                                 132.06
24-1                             132.06
27B-3                            113.06
47-30.2                          153.284
Chapter 47A                      153.107
47A-1 et seq.                    153.021,
                                 153.107
58-36-65                         132.04
Chapter 62A                      31.02
62A-5                            31.21
74-46 et seq.                    153.115
74C-3                            112.25
Chapter 87                       115.02
Chapter 89A                      153.227
Chapter 105, Article 18          150.40
105-271 et seq.                  150.40
105-277.2                        152.055
105-277.3                        152.055,
                                 153.021
105-277.4                        152.055
105.277.5                        152.055
105.277.6                        152.055
105-277.7                        152.055
105-316                          150.40
105-316(a)(1)                    153.061
105-316.1 et seq.                150.40
106-581.1                        153.021
106-735 through 106-744          152.002
106-740                          152.100
106-743.2                        153.021
106-743.4                        153.021
106-744(e)(1)                    152.028
106-758                          153.021
Chapter 113, Subchapter IV       130.10
115C-242.1                       132.06
115C-242.1(c)                    132.03,
                                 132.06
Chapter 121                      92.05
121-35                           152.055
127B, Article 1                  113.03
127B-5                           113.99
127B-6                           113.08
127B-7                           113.99
Chapter 130, Article 26          112.06
130-232                          112.06
Chapter 130A, Article 9          110.01
130A-247                         153.111
130A-248                         153.111
130A-290                         153.024
130A-290(a)(6)                   153.024
130A-290(a)(35)                  153.024
130A-290(a)(36)                  153.024
130A-309.09A                     110.05
130A-309.51 through 130A- 309.64 50.07 
131E-158                         112.03
Chapter 133                      92.05
136-44.14                        153.162
136-133.2                        153.044,
                                 153.159
139-1 et seq.                    10.18
Chapter 143, Article 9A          150.40
Chapter 143, Article 21, Part 6  153.245
Chapter 143, Article 56          112.11
143-138(b)                       151.002
143-143.15                       153.248
143-151.8(a)(3)                  151.026
143-151.70 et seq.               153.092
143-213(18)                      52.002
143-215.1                        52.002,
                                 52.004
143-215.1(b)                     52.004
143-215.1(g)                     52.004
143-215.3(a)(14)                 52.002
143-215.6B                       52.086
143-215.6B(f)                    52.086
143-215.6B(g)                    52.086
143-215.6B(h)                    52.086
143-215.6B(i)                    52.086
143-215.115 et seq.              153.092
143-507 et seq.                  112.11
143B-165                         112.01
Chapter 153A                     92.05,
                                 152.002
Chapter 153A, Article 18         151.001
153A-47                          93.07
                                 10.01,
153A-49                          10.19,
                                 10.20
                                 50.02,
153A-121                         91.10,
                                 112.11
                                 92.06,
                                 115.02,
153A-122                         115.08,
                                 130.04,
                                 131.04
                                 111.99,
                                 114.062,
                                 115.99,
153A-123                         116.11,
                                 116.27,
                                 130.99,
                                 131.99,
                                 150.99
153A-123(c)                      112.33
153A-123(d)                      50.99
153A-123(e)                      50.99
153A-128                         91.10,
                                 131.03
153A-129                         130.03
153A-132.1                       50.02
153A-134                         115.01
153A-136                         50.02,
                                 91.10
153A-137                         114.002
153A-145.7                       118.01
153A-149(c)(31)                  50.02
153A-239.1                       153.135
153A-246                         132.02
153A-274                         50.02
                                 51.01,
153A-275                         52.001,
                                 111.01,
                                 150.03
153A-277                         51.01
153A-292                         50.02,
                                 50.08
153A-292(b)                      50.08
153A-293                         50.08
153A-345(b)                      153.137
Chapter 160A, Article 19         151.012
160A-188                         90.31
160A-312                         52.001
                                 153.004,
                                 153.020,
                                 153.021,
                                 153.024,
                                 153.061,
                                 153.067,
Chapter 160D                     153.069,
                                 153.115,
                                 153.137,
                                 153.245,
                                 153.277,
                                 153.279,
                                 153.300,
                                 153.316
160D-601(b)                      153.092
Chapter 162                      114.030
162A, Article 6                  51.01,
                                 51.02
162A, Article 8                  51.01
162A-85.5                        51.01
162A-85.13                       51.01
162A-88                          51.01
162A-92                          51.01
162A-205                         51.38
162A-213                         51.38
Chapter 166A                     32.06
                                 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        8-6-1984    52.029
-        1-3-1989    30.01 -
                     30.24
-        5-15-1989   150.05
-        12-4-1989   30.06
-        12-1-2003   150.41
-        8-2-2004    52.029,
                     52.999
                     153.139,
-        4-16-2011   153.151,
                     153.277
-        5-21-2012   153.021,
                     153.105
                     153.061,
                     153.093,
                     153.108,
-        6-18-2012   153.110,
                     153.114,
                     153.115,
                     153.131,
                     153.159
-        9-17-2012   153.021,
                     153.105
                     153.021,
                     153.044,
                     153.092,
-        2-17-2014   153.115,
                     153.151,
                     153.159,
                     153.279,
                     153.303
-        11-17-2014  153.111
                     153.021,
                     153.045,
                     153.047,
                     153.064,
-        5-18-2015   153.115,
                     153.151,
                     153.163,
                     153.320,
                     153.321
                     153.021,
-        10-19-2015  153.061,
                     153.105,
                     153.111
                     153.093,
                     153.105,
-        3-21-2016   153.107,
                     153.112,
                     153.115,
                     153.153
-        3-21-2016   153.105
-        10-17-2016  153.132
-        1-17-2017   153.159
-        6-18-2018   153.093
                     153.093,
-        7-15-2019   153.115,
                     153.155
-        9-16-2019   153.157
-        9-16-2019   153.105,
                     153.112
-        11-18-2019  153.155
                     153.151,
-        3-16-2020   153.157,
                     153.158
-        10-19-2020  153.115
                     153.004,
                     153.020,
                     153.021,
                     153.024,
                     153.061,
                     153.064,
                     153.066,
                     153.067,
                     153.069,
                     153.091,
                     153.092,
                     153.105,
                     153.107,
                     153.111,
-        11-16-2020  153.113,
                     153.115,
                     153.131,
                     153.137,
                     153.156,
                     153.245,
                     153.276,
                     153.277,
                     153.280,
                     153.300,
                     153.301,
                     153.316,
                     153.317,
                     153.319,
                     153.320
                     153.021,
                     153.061,
-        6-21-2021   153.063,
                     153.176,
                     153.178
-        6-21-2021   153.162
-        10-18-2021  153.092
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     115.01 -
-        - -         115.10,
                     115.99
-        - -         150.22
-        - -         150.40,
                     150.99
                     151.001 -
                     151.012,
                     151.025 -
                     151.033,
-        - -         151.045 -
                     151.056,
                     151.070 -
                     151.076,
                     151.999
-        - -         51.04
-        7-3-1972    117.01,
                     117.99
                     93.01 -
-        7-21-1975   93.07,
                     93.99
                     116.01 -
-        7-19-1976   116.11,
                     116.99
                     116.25 -
-        7-19-1976   116.28,
                     116.99
                     112.25 -
-        7-7-1981    112.33,
                     112.99
-        8-3-1981    150.03,
                     150.99
                     114.001 -
                     114.003,
                     114.015 -
                     114.019,
                     114.030 -
                     114.032,
                     114.045 -
-        10-18-1982  114.049,
                     114.060 -
                     114.070,
                     114.085 -
                     114.099,
                     114.110 -
                     114.114,
                     114.999
                     91.01 -
-        6-4-1984    91.14,
                     91.99
-        7-23-1984   52.029,
                     52.999
-        12-2-1985   150.20 -
                     150.28
                     113.01 -
-        2-3-1986    113.09,
                     113.99
-        10-17-1988  150.01
                     110.25 -
-        2-5-1990    110.31,
                     110.99
                     50.01 -
-        7-23-1990   50.12,
                     50.99
-        8-19-1991   150.01
-        9-24-1991   150.02
-        8-3-1992    50.08
-        2-1-1993    150.02
                     31.01 -
                     31.04,
                     31.06 -
-        6-21-1993   31.08,
                     31.20 -
                     31.24,
                     31.99
-        7-21-1997   150.02
                     112.01 ,
                     112.03,
                     112.05 -
-        7-6-1999    112.10,
                     112.12 -
                     112.16,
                     112.99
                     154.01 -
                     154.08,
                     154.20 -
                     154.26,
-        12-4-2000   154.35 -
                     154.37,
                     154.45 -
                     154.54,
                     154.99
-        3-19-2001   31.05
-        3-18-2002   31.20
                     154.01 -
                     154.08,
                     154.20 -
                     154.26,
-        6-17-2002   154.35 -
                     154.37,
                     154.45 -
                     154.54,
                     154.99
                     111.01 -
                     111.14,
                     111.25 -
-        8-16-2004   111.30,
                     111.45 -
                     111.51,
                     111.99
-        4-17-2006   90.99
-        6-4-2007    31.05
                     152.001 -
                     152.008,
                     152.020 -
                     152.028,
                     152.040 -
                     152.042,
                     152.055,
-        10-15-2007  152.070 -
                     152.072,
                     152.085 -
                     152.086,
                     152.100 -
                     152.101,
                     152.115 -
                     152.117
                     90.30 -
-        5-5-2008    90.41,
                     90.99
-        9-6-2011    110.01 -
                     110.10
                     153.001 -
                     153.007,
                     153.020 -
                     153.025,
                     153.040 -
                     153.047,
                     153.060 -
                     153.069,
                     153.080 -
                     153.093,
                     153.105 -
                     153.115,
                     153.130 -
                     153.139,
                     153.150 -
                     153.164,
                     153.175 -
-        10-17-2011  153.178,
                     153.190 -
                     153.193,
                     153.205 -
                     153.207,
                     153.220 -
                     153.230,
                     153.245 -
                     153.248,
                     153.260 -
                     153.262,
                     153.275 -
                     153.285,
                     153.300 -
                     153.304,
                     153.315 -
                     153.322,
                     153.999
                     52.001 -
                     52.007,
                     52.020 -
                     52.030,
                     52.045 -
-        12-5-2011   52.059,
                     52.070 -
                     52.072,
                     52.085 -
                     52.087,
                     52.999
                     53.01 -
-        7-16-2012   53.05,
                     53.99
                     92.01 -
                     92.10,
-        6-17-2013   92.25 -
                     92.31,
                     92.99
                     32.01 -
-        12-16-2013  32.09,
                     32.99
-        10-20-2014  150.02
                     130.01 -
-        2-2-2015    130.10,
                     130.99
                     130.01 -
-        3-16-2015   130.10,
                     130.99
                     131.01 -
-        3-16-2015   131.09,
                     131.99
                     152.027,
-        4-6-2015    152.055,
                     152.071,
                     152.115
-        4-20-2015   130.25 -
                     130.26
                     51.01 -
                     51.03,
-        6-30-2015   51.15 -
                     51.41,
                     51.55 -
                     51.61
-        10-19-2015  33.01
-        10-3-2016   33.01
-        10-17-2016  33.01
-        11-21-2016  33.01
-        2-16-2017   33.01
-        3-20-2017   91.30 -
                     91.36
-        7-1-2017    150.04
-        2-19-2018   118.01
-        6-4-2018    Adopting Ordinance
                     90.02 -
-        6-4-2018    90.15,
                     90.99
                     51.01 -
                     51.03,
-        7-16-2018   51.15 -
                     51.41,
                     51.55 -
                     51.61
-        12-3-2018   Adopting Ordinance
                     54.01 -
-        12-3-2018   54.13,
                     54.99
-        8-19-2019   150.02
-        2-4-2019    33.01
-        8-19-2019   33.01
-        10-7-2019   33.01
-        12-2-2019   33.01
-        12-16-2019  Adopting Ordinance
-        3-2-2020    34.01
-        4-6-2020    33.01
                     51.01 -
                     51.03,
-        6-15-2020   51.15 -
                     51.41,
                     51.55 -
                     51.61
                     51.01 -
                     51.03,
-        11-16-2020  51.15 -
                     51.41,
                     51.55 -
                     51.61
-        4-5-2021    132.03 -
                     132.06
                     51.38,
2021-9   10-26-2021  51.39,
                     51.55
2022-01  1-3-2022    Adopting Ordinance
2022-03  1-18-2022   153.135
2022-04  2-21-2022   153.999
2022-05  2-21-2022   153.021,
                     153.155
2022-12  5-16-2022   153.157
2022-14  6-6-2022    33.01
2022-16  6-20-2022   112.01 -
                     112.16
                     90.01 -
2022-25  10-17-2022  90.15,
                     90.99
2023-07  3-20-2023   153.300
2023-09  4-17-2023   Adopting Ordinance
2023-16  8-21-2023   153.105
2023-21  10-16-2023  153.105,
                     153.111
2023-24  11-6-2023   132.01 -
                     132.06
                     153.176 -
2023-27  12-18-2023  153.178,
                     153.282
2024-01  2-19-2024   153.159
2024-02  2-19-2024   153.159
2024-08  3-18-2024   153.284
2024-15  5-20-2024   153.105,
                     153.111
2024-16  5- -2024    Adopting Ordinance
2024-17  6-17-2024   33.01
-        7-1-2024    33.01
2024-24  9-3-2024    153.067
2024-25  9-16-2024   153.261
2024-28  10-21-2024  33.01
                     153.021,
2024-31  11-18-2024  153.105,
                     153.111
                    
 
 
