TOWN OF HARRISBURG, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-25 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance passed 4-11-22; and
State legislation through North Carolina Legislative Service, 2021 Pamphlet No.
5
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE REVISING, CONSOLIDATING, ELABORATING AND ADDING TO THE ORDINANCES
OF THE TOWN OF HARRISBURG, NORTH CAROLINA
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF HARRISBURG THAT:
   Section 1.   The following compilation of ordinances is hereby adopted as
the official Code of Ordinances of the Town of Harrisburg, North Carolina.
   Section 2.
      (a)   All ordinances of a general and permanent nature of the town
enacted on or before September 9, 1991 and all resolutions enacted on or before
November 12, 1990 not included within this Code, or recognized and continued in
force by reference therein, are hereby repealed from and after the effective
date of this ordinance, except as provided in Section 3.
      (b)   To the extent that ordinances or portions of ordinances included
within this Code are the same in substance as ordinances in effect prior to the
adoption of this Code, it is intended that they be treated as continuations and
not as new enactments or amendments, in order that all rights and liabilities
that have accrued are preserved and may be enforced.
   Section 3.   This Code of Ordinances contains all of the general and
permanent ordinances of the Town of Harrisburg, but it does not contain, and is
not intended to affect, the following classes of ordinances or actions having
the effect of ordinances:
      1.   Budget Ordinances or Amendments thereto;
      2.   Bond Orders and Ordinances;
      3.   Ordinances granting a franchise;
      4.   Ordinances or resolutions pertaining to the exercise of the power of
eminent domain;
      5.   Ordinances or resolutions pertaining to the levy of special
assessments;
      6.   Ordinances, resolutions, or orders naming, renaming or closing a
street;
      7.   Ordinances establishing or amending the boundaries of zoning
districts;
      8.   Ordinances establishing or amending a position classification and
pay plan for town employees; and
      9.   Ordinances or resolutions of any type which are not normally or
customarily codified, including but not limited to ordinances or resolutions of
limited interest or of a transitory nature.
   Section 4.   No provision of this ordinance is intended, nor shall be
construed, to affect in any way any rights or interests (whether public or
private):
      (a)      Now vested or accrued, in whole or in part, the validity of
which might be sustained or preserved by reference to any provision of an
ordinance repealed by the adoption of this Code.
      (b)      Derived from, or which might be sustained or preserved in
reliance upon, action heretofore taken pursuant to or within the scope of any
ordinance repealed by the adoption of this Code.
   Section 5. No action or proceeding of any nature (whether civil or criminal,
judicial or administrative or otherwise) pending on the effective date of this
ordinance by or against the Town of Harrisburg or any of its departments or
agencies shall be abated or otherwise affected by the adoption of this Code.
   Section 6. If any portion of this Code or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other
provisions or applications of this Code which can be given effect without the
invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this Code
are declared to be severable.
   Section 7. A copy of this Code shall be kept on file in the office of the
Town Clerk and it shall be the express duty of the Clerk, or someone authorized
by the Clerk, to insert in their designated places all duly adopted amendments
to this Code, and to extract from this Code all provisions which may be from
time to time duly repealed. A copy of this Code shall be available for all
persons desiring to examine it during reasonable times, under the supervision
of the Town Clerk.
   Section 8. This ordinance, and the Code of Ordinances which it adopts, shall
be in full force and effect from and after the 12th day of November, 1991.
               Lena P. Bowen /s/
               Mayor
Linda M. Boger /s/
Town Clerk
CHARTER
THE CHARTER OF THE TOWN OF HARRISBURG.
ARTICLE 1. INCORPORATION AND CORPORATION POWERS.
Section 1.1. Incorporation and General Powers.
   The inhabitants of the area described in Section 2 of this Charter shall be
and constitute a body politic and corporate under the name of the 'Town of
Harrisburg', and shall be vested with all property which may be acquired by the
Town, and all rights herein delegated to it; shall have perpetual succession;
may have a common seal and alter and renew the same at pleasure; may sue and be
sued; may contract; may acquire and hold all such property, real and personal,
as may be devised, bequeathed, sold or in any manner conveyed to, dedicated to,
or otherwise acquired by it, and may from time to time hold or invest, sell, or
dispose of the same; and shall have and may exercise in conformity with this
Charter all municipal powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of
every name and nature.
Sec. 1.2. Exercise of Powers.
   All powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of the Town, its
officers, agencies, or employees, shall be carried into execution as provided
by this Charter, or, if this Charter makes no provision, as provided by
ordinance or resolution of the Town Council and as provided by the general laws
of North Carolina pertaining to municipal corporations.
Sec. 1.3. Enumerated Powers Not Exclusive.
   The enumeration of particular powers by this Charter shall not be held or
deemed to be exclusive but, in addition to the powers enumerated herein or
implied hereby, or those appropriate to the exercise of such powers, the Town
of Harrisburg shall have and may exercise all powers which are granted to
municipal corporations by the general laws of North Carolina and all powers
which under the Constitution of North Carolina, it would be competent for this
Charter specifically to enumerate.
ARTICLE II. CORPORATE BOUNDARIES
Sec. 2.1. Corporate Boundaries.
   The corporate boundaries of the town of Harrisburg shall be those existing
at the time of ratification of this Charter as set forth on the official map of
the Town and as they may be altered from time to time in accordance with law.
An official map of the Town, showing the current municipal boundaries, shall be
maintained permanently in the Planning Department and shall be available for
public inspection. Upon alteration of the corporate limits pursuant to the law,
the appropriate changes to the official map shall be made and copies shall be
filed in the office of the Secretary of State, the Cabarrus County Register of
Deeds and the Cabarrus County Board of Elections.
(Am. Ord., passed 7-13-15)
Sec. 2.2. Extension of Corporate Boundaries.
   All extensions of the corporate boundaries shall be governed by the General
Statutes of North Carolina and any applicable local legislation.
(Am. Ord., passed 7-13-15)
ARTICLE III. MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL.
Sec. 3.1 Town Governing Body.
   The Town Council, hereinafter referred to as the 'Council', and the Mayor
shall be the governing body of the Town.
(Am. Ord., passed 7-13-15)
Sec. 3.2. Mayor and Mayor Pro Tempore.
   The Mayor shall be elected by and from qualified voters of the Town voting
at large and he shall hold office for four (4) years, with the election dates
for Mayor to be staggered with those of members of the Town Council as
specified in Sec. 3.4. In the case of a vacancy in the office of Mayor, the
Town Council shall by appointment fill the vacancy for the unexpired term. The
Mayor shall be the official head of the Town government and shall preside at
all meetings of the Town Council. When there is an equal division upon any
question, or in the appointment of officers, by the Council, the Mayor shall
determine the matter by his vote, and shall vote in no other case. The Mayor
shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as are or may be conferred
upon him by the general laws of North Carolina, by this Charter, and by the
ordinances of the Town. The Town Council shall choose one of its number to act
as Mayor Pro Tempore, and he shall perform the duties of the Mayor in the
Mayor's absence or disability. The Mayor Pro Tempore as such shall have no
fixed term of office, but shall serve in such capacity at the pleasure of the
remaining members of the Council.
(Res., passed 3-12-01)
Sec. 3.3. Composition and Terms of Office of Town Council.
   The Town Council shall consist of seven (7) members to be elected by and
from the qualified votes of the Town voting at large in the manner provided by
Article IV, for staggered terms of four years or until their successors are
elected and qualified.
(Am. Ord., passed 7-13-15)
Sec. 3.4. Qualifications; Vacancies. 
   (a)   The Mayor and Council members so elected shall serve from the day and
hour of the organizational meeting following their election until their
successors are elected and qualify.
   (b)   No person shall be eligible to be a candidate or be elected as a
member of the Town Council, or to serve in such capacity, unless he is a
resident and a qualified voter of the Town.
   (c)   If any elected Councilman shall refuse to qualify, or if there shall
be any vacancy in the office of councilman after election and qualification,
the remaining members of the council shall by majority vote appoint some
qualified person to serve for the unexpired term. Any Councilman so appointed
shall have the same authority and powers as if regularly elected.
(Res., passed 3-12-01 Am. Ord., passed 7-13-15)
Sec. 3.5. Compensation of Mayor and Councilmen.
   The Town Council may fix its owner compensation and allowances, and the
compensation and allowances of the Mayor, in such sums as may be just and
reasonable, effective following the next regular municipal election for seats
on the Town Council. The compensation and allowances of the Mayor shall not be
reduced during the then current term of office.
Sec. 3.6. Organization of Council; Oaths of Office.
   The Town Council shall meet and organize for the transaction of business at
the first regularly scheduled meeting of the Council following each biennial
election. Before entering upon their offices, the Mayor and each Councilman
shall take, subscribe, and have entered upon the minutes of the Council the
following oath of office: 'I,                   , do solemnly swear (or affirm)
that I will support and maintain the Constitution and laws of the United
States, and the Constitution and laws of North Carolina not inconsistent
therewith, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of my office as
       ; so help me, God.'
Sec. 3.7. Meetings of Council.
   (a)   The Town Council shall fix by ordinance suitable times for its regular
meetings, which shall be as often as once monthly. Special meetings may be held
on the call of the Mayor or a majority of the Councilmen, and those not joining
in the call shall be notified in writing. Any business may be transacted at a
special meeting that might be transacted at a regular meeting.
   (b)   All meetings of the Council shall be open to the public. The Council
shall not by executive session or otherwise formally consider or vote on any
question in private session. The Council may deliberate and vote in private
session on matters pertaining to personnel or property acquisition.
(Am. Ord., passed 7-13-15)
Sec. 3.8. Quorum; Votes.
   (a)   A majority of the members elected to the Town Council shall constitute
a quorum for the conduct of business, but a less number may adjourn from time
to time and compel the attendance of absent members in such manner as may be
prescribed by ordinance. The number required for a quorum shall not be affected
by vacancies.
   (b)   The affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Town Council
shall be necessary to adopt any ordinance, or any resolution or motion having
the effect of an ordinance.
Sec. 3.9. Ordinances and Resolutions.
   The adoption, amendment, repeal, pleading, or proving of ordinances shall be
in accordance with the applicable provisions of the general laws of North
Carolina not inconsistent with this Charter. The ayes and noes shall be taken
upon all ordinances and resolutions and entered upon the minutes of the
Council. The enacting clause of all ordinances shall be: 'BE IT ORDAINED by the
Town Council of the Town of Harrisburg.' All ordinances and resolutions shall
take effect upon adoption unless otherwise provided therein, or unless some
provision of the General Statutes provides otherwise.
ARTICLE IV. ELECTION PROCEDURE.
Sec. 4.1. Regular Municipal Elections.
   Regular municipal elections shall be held on the Tuesday after the first
Monday in November of each odd-numbered year, beginning in 1973. Council
members shall be elected on a nonpartisan basis and the results determined by
plurality, as approved in North Carolina General Statutes.
(Am. Ord., passed 7-13-15)
Sec. 4.2. Regulation of Elections.
   All municipal elections shall be conducted in accordance with the general
laws of North Carolina relating to municipal elections, except as otherwise
herein provided.
ARTICLE V. TOWN ATTORNEY.
Sec. 5.1. Appointment; Qualification; Terms; Compensation.
   The Town Council may appoint a Town Attorney who shall be an attorney- at-
law licensed to engage in the practice of law in North Carolina and who need
not be a resident of the Town during his tenure. The Town Attorney shall serve
at the pleasure of the Town Council and shall receive such compensation as the
Council shall determine.
Sec. 5.2. Duties of the Town Attorney.
   It shall be the duty of the Town Attorney to prosecute and defend suits for
and against the Town; to advise the Mayor, Town Council, and other Town
officials with respect to the affairs of the Town; to draw proposed ordinances
when requested to do so; to inspect and pass upon all agreements, contracts,
franchises and other instruments with which the Town may be concerned; and to
perform such other duties as may be required of him by virtue of his position
as Town Attorney.
ARTICLE VI. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
Sec. 6.1. Form of Government.
   The Town shall operate under the council-manager form of government in
accordance with Part 2 of Article 7 of Chapter 160A of the General Statutes.
(Am. Ord., passed 7-13-15)
Sec. 6.2. Town Manager; Appointment; Power and Duties.
   The Council shall appoint a Town Manager who shall be responsible for the
administration of all departments of the Town government. The Town Manager
shall have all the powers and duties conferred by general law, except as
expressly limited by the provision of this Charter, and the additional powers
and duties conferred by the Council, so far as authorized by general law.
(Am. Ord., passed 7-13-15)
Sec. 6.3. Town Clerk.
   The Town Council shall appoint a Town Clerk to keep a journal of the
proceedings of the Council and to maintain in a safe place all records and
documents pertaining to the affairs of the Town, and to perform such other
duties as may be required by law or as the Council may direct.
(Am. Ord., passed 7-13-15)
Sec. 6.4. Town Tax Collector.
   The Town Council shall appoint a Tax Collector to collect all taxes,
licenses, fees and other monies belonging to the Town subject to the provisions
of this Charter and the ordinances of the Town, and he shall diligently comply
with and enforce all the general laws of North Carolina relating to the
collection, sale, and foreclosure of taxes by municipalities.
(Am. Ord., passed 7-13-15)
Sec. 6.5. Town Finance Officer.
   The Town Council may appoint a Town Finance Officer to perform the duties of
the Finance Officer as required by the Local Government Budget and Fiscal
Control Act.
(Am. Ord., passed 7-13-15)
Sec. 6.6. Consolidation of Functions.
   The Town Council may, in its discretion, consolidate the functions of any
two or more of the positions of Town Clerk, Town Tax Collector, and Town
Finance Officer, or may assign the functions of any one or more of these
positions to the holder or holders of any other of these positions. The Town
Council may also, in its discretion, designate a single employee to perform all
or any part of the functions of any of the named positions, in lieu of
appointing several persons to perform the same.
(Am. Ord., passed 7-13-15)
Sec. 6.7. Other Employees.
   The Town Council may authorize other positions to be filled by appointment
by the Town Manager, and may organize the Town government as deemed
appropriate, subject to the requirements of general law.
(Am. Ord., passed 7-13-15)
ARTICLE VII. FINANCE.
Sec. 7.1. Custody of Town Money.
   All monies received by the Town and in connection with the business of the
Town government shall be paid promptly into the Town depository. Such
institution shall be designated by the Town Council in accordance with such
regulations and subject to such requirements as to security for deposits and
interest thereon as may be established by the General Statues of North
Carolina. All interest on monies belonging to the Town shall accrue to the
benefit of the Town. All monies belonging to the Town shall be disbursed only
in accordance with the provisions of the Local Government Budget and Fiscal
Control Act.
Sec. 7.2. Issuance of Bonds.
   The Town may issue bonds for the purposes and in the manner prescribed by
the General Statues of North Carolina relating to the issuance of bonds by
municipalities.
Sec. 7.3. Purchases and Contracts.
   Purchases of apparatus, supplies, materials, and equipment, and contracts
for construction or repair work, shall be made in accordance with the General
Statues of North Carolina relating thereto.
Sec. 7.4. Independent Audit.
   As soon as practicable after the close of each fiscal year, an independent
audit shall be made of all books and accounts of the Town government by a
certified public accountant or an accountant certified by the Local Government
Commission, who shall have no personal interest directly or indirectly in the
affairs of the Town or of any of its officers. The Town Budget shall be made
available for inspection by any interested citizen of the Town, and may be
published if so ordered by the Town Council.
Sec. 7.5. Taxation.
   The territory within the corporate limits, and its citizens and property,
shall be subject to municipal taxes levied by the Town for the fiscal year
1973-74 and subsequent years. The Town may obtain from Cabarrus County, and the
Cabarrus County Tax Supervisor shall provide upon request, a record of property
within the corporate limits which was listed for taxation as of January 1,
1973.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of construction
   
10.07   Conflicting provisions
   
10.08   Severability
   
10.09   Reference to other sections
   
10.10   Reference to offices
   
10.11   Errors and omissions
   
10.12   Official time
   
10.13   Reasonable time
   
10.14   Ordinances repealed
   
10.15   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.16   Ordinances saved
   
10.17   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.18   Altering code
   
10.19   Liability of corporate officers, agents, and employees for violation of
code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   The provisions in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and
be designated as the "Code of Ordinances, Town of Harrisburg, North Carolina,"
and may be so cited.
Statutory reference:
   Pleading of ordinances and admission in evidence of printed codes, see G.S.
§ 160A- 79
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required,
the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of the
General Statutes of North Carolina.
   (B)   Where a section of this code is followed by a reference to the General
Statutes of North Carolina, the reference indicates that the section is
analogous or similar to the cited sections in the General Statutes of North
Carolina. Footnotes, cross-references, and other comments are by way of
explanation only and should not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
   (C)   All provisions of this code are limited in application to the
territorial boundaries of the town although the provisions may not be so
limited specifically. Nothing herein contained is intended to conflict with or
supersede applicable state or federal laws.
   (D)   Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any part
of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I not incompatible with future legislation shall
apply to ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code
unless otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, unless otherwise specifically provided, the
following words and phrases shall have the following meanings.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The Town Code as modified by
amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
   BOND. When a BOND is required, an undertaking in writing shall be
sufficient.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day. If the last day is
Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Harrisburg, North Carolina,
constituting the governing body of the town.
   COUNTY. Cabarrus, North Carolina.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation
may be substituted for an OATH, and in such cases, the words "affirm" and
"affirmed" shall be equivalent to the words "swear" and "sworn".
   OFFICIALS, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AND THE LIKE. Whenever reference is made to
OFFICIALS, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, COMMITTEES AND THE LIKE, by title only, they
shall be construed as if followed by the words "of the Town of Harrisburg,
North Carolina."
   OWNER. When applied to buildings or land, shall include any part owner,
joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety, of the
whole or part of the building or land.
   PERSON. Includes a corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, and any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property, except real property as herein
defined.
   PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
   PROPERTY. Real and personal PROPERTY.
   REAL PROPERTY. Lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line, intended for the use of pedestrians.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Shall include a mark when a person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of North Carolina.
   STATUTES REFERENCES. The General Statutes of North Carolina shall be cited
to throughout this code as "G.S."
   STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway,
alley, lane, path, viaduct, bridge, or other public place and the approaches
thereto within the town when any part thereof is open to the use of the public
and established for purposes of vehicular traffic.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land shall include any person
who occupies the whole or part of the building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   TOWN. The Town of Harrisburg in the County of Cabarrus and the State of
North Carolina.
   TOWN LIMITS or CORPORATE LIMITS. The legal boundary of the Town of
Harrisburg, North Carolina.
   WRITING or WRITTEN. Shall include printing and any other mode of
representing words and letters.
   YEAR. A calendar year.
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law definitions, see G.S. § 12-3
§ 10.06 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or," if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (C)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
   (D)   Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language. How-ever, technical
words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to that
meaning.
Statutory reference:
   Rules of statutory construction, see G.S. § 12-3
§ 10.07 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the subject matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.08 SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Town Council that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this code are
severable. If any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this code
is declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of
competent jurisdiction, the unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the
remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, and sections of this code,
since these would have been enacted by the Council without the incorporation in
this code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or
section.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.10 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the town exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.11 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted that will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.12 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal law, shall
be the official time within the town of the transaction of all town business.
§ 10.13 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by this code, by
order of any court, or by any applicable statute, the day of the act, event, or
default from which the designated period of time begins to run shall not be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included unless it is
a Saturday; a Sunday; a legal holiday; or a day the office in which the act is
to be done is closed during regular business hours. In any event, the period
runs until the end of the next day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal
holiday, or a day on which the office is closed. When the period of time
allowed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, legal
holidays, and days on which the office is closed shall be excluded from the
computations.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code, unless
otherwise specified.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
legislative body or a certain town officer or employee to make additional
ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the
ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving that
purpose effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall
remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.17 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   This code of ordinances may be amended from time to time by ordinance
adopted by the Town Council. Any chapter, section, or division amended or added
to this code by ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in
accordance with the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion
herein. Any chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may
be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent
ordinances as printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of the
subsequent ordinances until the legislative body of the town adopts a new code
of ordinances.
§ 10.18 ALTERING CODE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend, by additions or
deletions, any part or portion of this code; insert or delete pages, or any
portions thereof; or alter or tamper with the code in any manner whatsoever
except pursuant to ordinance or resolution or other official act of the Town
Council which will cause the law of the town to be misrepresented thereby.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.19 LIABILITY OF CORPORATE OFFICERS, AGENTS, AND EMPLOYEES FOR VIOLATION OF
CODE.
   In the event of a violation of any provision of this code or other ordinance
of the town by a corporation, the officer, agent, or employee thereof who
performs the act constituting the violation or procures, aids, or abets the
performance of the act shall be subject to the same penalties as if he himself
had committed the violation.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating or failing, refusing or neglecting to comply with
any provision or requirement of any section or subsection of this Code, or any
ordinance of this county now in force or hereafter enacted, that is
specifically designated as a misdemeanor and to which no specific criminal
penalty is affixed, shall be punished in accordance with G.S. § 14-4 and shall
be fined in an amount not to exceed $500 for each offense.
   (B)   Violations of this Code shall constitute either a misdemeanor, if
allowed, or, at the election of the town, shall subject the offender to a civil
penalty upon the issuance of a citation for said violation as hereinafter
provided. The civil penalty, if not paid to the town within 15 days of the
issuance of a citation, may be recovered by the town in a civil action in the
nature of debt. Unless otherwise provided by a specific provision of this Code,
such civil penalties shall be in the amount of $50 for each violation, and each
day any single violation continues shall be a separate violation.
   (C)   In addition to the civil penalties set out above, any provision of
this Code or any other town ordinance may be enforced by an appropriate
equitable remedy issuing from a court of competent jurisdiction. In such case,
the general court of justice shall have jurisdiction to issue such orders as
may be appropriate, and it shall not be a defense to the application of the
town for equitable relief that there is an adequate remedy at law.
   (D)   In addition to the civil penalties set out above, any provision of the
Code or any other town ordinance that makes unlawful a condition existing upon
or use made of real property may be enforced by injunction and order of
abatement by the general court of justice. When a violation of such a provision
occurs, the town may apply to the appropriate division of the general court of
justice for a mandatory or prohibitory injunction and/or order of abatement
commanding the defendant to correct the unlawful condition upon or cease the
unlawful use of the property. The action shall be governed in all respects by
the laws and rules governing civil proceedings, including the Rules of Civil
Procedure in general and Rule 65 in particular.
   (E)   An order of abatement may direct that buildings or other structures on
the property be closed, demolished, or removed; that fixtures, furniture, or
other movable property be removed from buildings on the property; that
abandoned or junked vehicles be removed; that improvements or repairs be made;
or that any other action be taken that is necessary to bring the property into
compliance with this Code or such ordinance. If the defendant fails or refuses
to comply with an injunction or with an order of abatement within the time
allowed by such order, he may be cited for contempt, and the town may execute
the order of abatement. The town shall have a lien on the property for the cost
of executing an order of abatement in the nature of a mechanic's and material-
man's lien. The defendant may secure cancellation of an order of abatement by
paying all cost of the proceedings and posting a bond for compliance with the
order. The bond shall be given with sureties approved by the clerk of superior
court in an amount approved by the judge before whom the matter is heard and
shall be conditioned on the defendant's full compliance with the terms of the
order of abatement within a time fixed by judicial order. Cancellation of an
order of abatement shall not suspend or cancel an injunction issued in
conjunction therewith.
   (F)   The provisions of this Code and any other town ordinances may be
enforced by one, all, or a combination of the remedies authorized and
prescribed by this section.
   (G)   (1)   Upon determination of a violation of any section of this Code,
the penalty for which is or may be a civil penalty, the town may but is not
required to cause a warning citation to be issued to the violator. Such
citation shall set out the nature of the violation, the section violated, and
the date of the violation and shall contain an order to cease the violation
immediately. If the violation is in the nature of an infraction for which an
order of abatement would be appropriate in a civil proceeding, a reasonable
period of time may be stated within which the violation must be abated. The
warning citation may specify that a second citation shall incur a civil
penalty, together with costs and attorney fees.
      (2)   Upon failure of the violator to obey the warning citation, a civil
citation shall be issued by the appropriate official of the town and either
served directly on the violator, his duly designated agent, or the registered
agent if a corporation, either in person or posted in the United States mail
service by first class mail addressed to the last known address of the violator
as contained in the records of the town or obtained from the violator at the
time of issuance of the warning citation. The violator shall be deemed to have
been served upon the mailing of such citation. The citation shall direct the
violator to appear before the Town Council or its designee within 15 days of
the date of the citation or, alternatively, to pay the citation by mail. The
violation for which the citation is issued must have been corrected by the time
the citation is paid; otherwise, further citations shall be issued. Citations
may be issued for each day the offense continues until the prohibited activity
is ceased or abated.
   (H)   If the violator fails to respond to a citation within 15 days of it
issuance and pay the penalty prescribed therein, the town may institute a civil
action in the nature of debt in the appropriate division of the general court
of justice for the collection of the penalty, costs, attorney fees, and such
other relief as permitted by law.
(Ord. passed 4-8-96; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS
      
32.   CODE OF ETHICS
      
33.   TOWN POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Meetings
   
30.02   Code of conduct for the Mayor and Town Council members
§ 30.01 MEETINGS.
   In accordance with the Charter of the town, the time of the regular monthly
Town Council meeting is hereby fixed at 6:00 p.m. on the second Monday of each
month at the town hall.
(Ord. 100.1, passed 6-14-73; Am. Ord. 101, passed 12-10-73; Am. Ord. passed 12-
8-14)
§ 30.02 CODE OF CONDUCT FOR THE MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   Purpose. This Code of Conduct is designed to describe the manner in
which Town elected officials (the Mayor and Town Council members) should treat
each other, Town staff, constituents, and others they come into contact with in
representing the Town of Harrisburg. The constant and consistent theme through
this section is “respect”. Demonstrating respect for each individual through
words and actions is the touchstone that can help guide elected officials to do
the right thing.
   (B)   Basic responsibilities. All town elected officials should strive to:
      (1)   Fully participate in Town Council meetings and other public forums
while demonstrating respect, kindness, consideration and courtesy to others;
      (2)   Prepare in advance of Council meetings and be familiar with issues
on the agenda;
      (3)   Be respectful of other people's time. Stay focused and act
efficiently during public meetings;
      (4)   Serve as a model of leadership and civility to the community;
      (5)   Inspire public confidence in Town of Harrisburg government;
      (6)   Demonstrate honesty and integrity in every action and statement;
      (7)   Participate in scheduled activities to increase effectiveness and
review Council procedures, such as this Code of Conduct; and
      (8)   Adhere to the Council Code of Ethics in all business and personal
activity while serving as a board member of elected official of the town.
   (C)   Policies and protocol related to conduct. Endorsement of candidates.
Elected officials have the right to support candidates for any and all offices.
It is inappropriate to endorse a candidate at an official town function or
while representing the town in an official capacity
   (D)   Council conduct with one another.
      (1)   In public meetings.
         (a)   Practice civility and decorum in discussions and debate.
Difficult questions, tough challenges to a particular point of view, and
criticism of ideas and information are legitimate elements of a free democracy
in action. This does not allow, however, elected officials to make belligerent,
personal, impertinent, slanderous, threatening, abusive or disparaging
comments. No shouting or physical actions that couid be construed as
threatening will be tolerated.
         (b)   Honor the role of the Mayor in maintaining order. It is the
responsibility of the Mayor to keep the comments of elected officials on track
during public meetings. Elected officials should honor efforts by the Mayor to
focus discussion on current agenda items. If there is a disagreement about the
agenda or the Mayor's actions, those objections should be voiced politely and
with reason, following procedures outlined in this Code of Conduct, the North
Carolina General Statutes, any rules of procedure adopted by the Town Council,
and lastly Roberts Rules of Order for parliamentary procedure.
         (c)   Avoid personal comments that could offend other elected
officials. If an elected official is personally offended by the remarks of
another elected official, the offended elected official should make notes of
the actual words used and call for a “point of personal privilege” that
challenges the other elected official to justify or apologize for the language
used. The Mayor will maintain control of this discussion.
         (d)   Strive to demonstrate effective problem-solving approaches.
Elected officials have a public stage to show how individuals with disparate
points of view can find common ground and seek a compromise that benefits the
community as a whole.
      (2)   In private encounters.
         (a)   Policy making. No binding policy decisions are permitted to be
made outside of a public meeting. The use of official town email is reviewable
in a public information request or through a subpoena in a lawsuit. Therefore,
a file should be maintained just like any other correspondence. The use of
private email or other electronic media does not necessarily come under the
same scrutiny but can if used for town business. Elected officials should
exercise discretion in any discussion of town business. A quorum of the Council
should avoid discussing town business at one time by any means unless in an
advertised public meeting.
         (b)   Be aware of the insecurity of written notes, voicemail messages
and email. Written notes, voicemail messages and email should be treated as
potentially “public” communication. Even though private communication cannot be
prohibited from distribution, the use of a disclaimer, verbal or written, can
act to protect the sender and should be respected. The litmus test should be:
would you feel comfortable if this voicemail/fax/email message appeared in the
newspaper verbatim? How would that reflect on the town?
         (c)   Guiding principles for elected officials when collaborating on
legislation. Collaboration among two elected officials to develop proposed
legislation, policy or ideas is acceptable. Bear in mind that four Council
members constitutes a quorum for the conduct of Town business. It must be
understood that no binding decisions can be made and that the proposal must
come before the whole Council for consideration in full, open discussion at a
public meeting. Always bear in mind that any record or document of discussion
of Town business may be subject to public disclosure under North Carolina law.
Documents as defined by the law include voicemails, texts, posts, pictures, and
the like.
   (E)   Conduct with staff. Governance of the town relies on the cooperative
efforts of elected officials, who set policy and town staff, who implement and
administer the Council's policies. Therefore, every effort should be made to be
cooperative and show mutual respect for the contributions made by each
individual for the good of the community.
      (1)   Treat all staff as professionals. Clear, honest communication that
respects the abilities, experience and dignity of each individual is expected.
A behavior, comment, or social media post that does not show respect for an
individual or department of the town will not be tolerated. Elected officials
should be aware that their body language and tone of voice, as well as the
words they use, could appear to be intimidating or aggressive.
      (2)   Limit contact to specific town staff. Questions of town staff and/
or requests for additional background information should be directed to the
proper department head, the Town Manager or the Mayor. Each should be copied on
appropriate questions, comments or requests. Requests for follow-up or
directions to staff should be made only through the appropriate chain of
command. When in doubt about what staff contact is appropriate, Councilmembers
should ask the Mayor or the Town Manager for direction. Materials supplied to a
Councilmember in response to a request must be made available to all members of
the Council so that all have equal access to information.
      (3)   Do not disrupt town staff from their jobs. Councilmembers should
not disrupt town staff while they are in meetings, on the phone or engrossed in
performing their job functions in order to have their individual needs met.
      (4)   Never publicly criticize an individual employee. Elected officials
should never express concerns about the performance of a town employee in
public or to the employee directly or to the employee's manager. Comments about
staff performance should only be made to the Town Manager or department dead
through private correspondence or conversation.
      (5)   Do not get involved in administrative functions. Elected officials
must not attempt to influence town staff on the hiring for existing positions,
processing of development applications or granting of town licenses and
permits.
      (6)   Do not attend meetings with town staff unless requested by staff.
      (7)   Limit requests for staff support. Routine secretarial support will
be provided to all elected officials by the town administration staff. Requests
for additional staff support - even in high priority or emergency situations -
should be made to the Town Manager.
      (8)   Do not solicit political support from staff. Elected officials
should not solicit any type of political support (financial contributions,
display of posters or lawn signs, name on support list, and the like) from town
staff. Town staff may, as private citizens with constitutional rights, support
political candidates, but all such activities must be done away from the
workplace.
   (F)   Council conduct with the public.
      (1)   In public meetings. Making the public feel welcome is an important
part of the democratic process. No signs of partiality, prejudice or disrespect
should be evident on the part of the individual elected officials toward an
individual participating in a public forum. Every effort should be made to be
fair and impartial in listening to public testimony and comment.
         (a)   Be fair and equitable in allocating public meeting time to
individual speakers. The Mayor will determine and announce limits on speakers
at the start of the public comment process with the consent of the Council. The
Mayor will advise speakers to state their name and address for the record and
to address their comments to the Council.
         (b)   Ask for clarification, but avoid debate and argument with the
public. 
            1.   Only the Mayor - not individual Council members - can
interrupt a speaker during a presentation. However, a Council member can ask
the Mayor for a point of order or point of information if the speaker is off
the topic or exhibiting behavior or language the Council member finds
disturbing, or would like further information from the speaker.
            2.   If a speaker becomes flustered or defensive by Council
questions, it is the responsibility of the Mayor to calm and focus the speaker
and to maintain the order and decorum of the meeting. Questions by Council
members to members of the public testifying or speaking should seek to clarify
or expand information. It is never appropriate to belligerently challenge or
belittle the speaker.
         (c)   No personal attacks of any kind, under any circumstance. Elected
officials should be aware that their body language and tone of voice, as well
as the words they use, could appear to be intimidating or aggressive.
      (2)   In unofficial settings.
         (a)   Make no promises on behalf of Council. Elected officials will
frequently be asked to explain a Council action or to give their opinion about
an issue as they meet and talk with constituents in the community. It is
appropriate to give a brief overview of town policy and refer to town staff for
further information. It is inappropriate to overtly or implicitly promise
Council action, or to promise town staff will do something specific (fix a
pothole, allow special signage, take care of a parking ticket, and the like).
Each elected official must remember that even though elected by the citizens of
the town, each elected official has no separate authority from the Council by
virtue of being elected. Only a decision in an open meeting by the Council as a
body has any legal effect.
         (b)   Remember that elected officials' actions are always being
scrutinized. The community is constantly observing elected officials every day
that they serve in office. Their behaviors and comments serve as models for
proper deportment in the Town. Honesty and respect for the dignity of each
individual should be reflected in every word and action taken by elected
officials, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. It is a serious and continuous
responsibility.
         (c)   Ensure accurate communication of information. It is extremely
important for Councilmembers to ensure that they are accurately communicating
information to the public, either formally or informally, about the town.
Before information is disseminated to the public, Councilmembers should confirm
with the Town Manager that the information is accurate and can be shared.
Council members should also be careful to ensure they communicate the full
context of information, and not use information out of context for political or
personal interests.
   (G)   Conduct with other public agencies.
      (1)   Be clear about whether representing the town or personal interests.
         (a)   If an elected official appears before another governmental
agency or organization to give a statement on an issue, the elected official
must clearly state whether his or her statement reflects personal opinion or is
the official position of the town.
         (b)   If the elected official is representing the town, the elected
official must support and advocate the official position of the town on an
issue, not a personal viewpoint.
         (c)   If the elected official is representing another organization
whose position is different from the town, the elected official should withdraw
from voting on the issue if it significantly impacts or is detrimental to the
town's interest. Elected officials should be clear about which organizations
they represent and inform the Mayor and Council of their involvement.
      (2)   Correspondence should be equally clear about representation. Town
letterhead is not to be used for correspondence of elected officials
representing a personal point of view, or a dissenting point of view from an
official council or town position.
   (H)   Conduct with boards, clubs, committees and organizations. The town has
established several boards and committees as a means of gathering more
community input. Members who serve on these bodies become more involved in
government and serve as advisors to the Town Council. They are a valuable
resource to the town's leadership and should be treated with appreciation and
respect.
      (1)   If attending a board or committee meeting, be careful to only
express personal opinions. Elected officials may attend any board or committee
meeting, which are always open to any member of the public. However, they
should be sensitive to the way their participation - especially if it is on
behalf of an individual, business or developer - could be viewed as unfairly
affecting the process. Any public comments by an elected official at a board or
committee meeting should be clearly made as individual opinion and not a
representation of the feelings of the entire Town Council.
      (2)   Limit contact with board and committee members to questions of
clarification. It is inappropriate for an elected official to contact a board
or committee member to lobby on behalf of an individual, business or developer.
It is illegal for an elected official to contact a member of the town's Board
of Adjustment with reference to any pending matter before that Board. It is
acceptable for elected officials to contact board or committee members in order
to clarify a position taken by the board.
      (3)   Remember that boards and committees serve the community, not
individual elected officials. The Town Council appoints individuals to serve on
boards and committees and it is the responsibility of boards and committees to
follow policy established by the Council. However, board and committee members
do not report to individual elected officials, nor should elected officials
feel they have the power or right to threaten board or committee members with
removal if they disagree about an issue. Appointment and re-appointment to a
board or committee should be based on such criteria as expertise, ability to
work with staff and the public and commitment to fulfilling official duties. A
board or committee appointment should not be used as a political “reward”.
      (4)   Be respectful of diverse opinions. A primary role of boards and
committees is to represent many points of view in the community and to provide
the Council with advice based on a full spectrum of concerns and perspectives.
Elected officials may have a closer working relationship with some individuals
serving on boards or committees, but must be fair and respectful of all
citizens serving on boards or committees.
      (5)   Political activity. Board or committee members may join or
affiliate with civic organizations of a partisan or political nature, may
advocate political principles or policies consistent with the constitution and
laws of the United States and the State of North Carolina, and may offer
political support for an elected official or anyone running for political
office. However, no board or committee member shall:
         (a)   Engage in any political or partisan activity while in an
official, public forum in their capacity as an elected or appointed official;
         (b)   Use official authority or influence for the purpose of
interfering with or affecting the result of a nomination or an election for
office;
         (c)   Solicit, coerce or compel contributions using the official
position of board or committee member; or
         (d)   Use any supplies or equipment of the town for political or
partisan purposes.
      (6)   Inappropriate behavior can lead to removal. Inappropriate behavior
or disruption of meetings by Councilmembers serving on a board or commission is
not acceptable. Councilmembers should not attempt to control or influence the
boards and should give respect to the board as they conduct their business.
Inappropriate behavior by a board or committee member, appointed by the
Council, should be addressed by its chair and/or members of the body. If a
Councilmember's conduct is unbecoming, the chair shall notify the Mayor, and
the Mayor should counsel the offending member. If inappropriate behavior
continues, the Mayor should bring the situation to the attention of the Council
and the individual is subject to removal from the board or committee.
   (I)   Conduct with the media. 
      (1)   The Mayor is the official spokesperson for the town. The Mayor is
the designated representative to present and comment on town positions and
policies. The Mayor Pro-Tem is the second in line to speak on behalf of the
Town Council when the Mayor is not available. The Mayor and Mayor Pro-Tem
should, whenever possible, make themselves available in person or by telephone
for comment on behalf of the town.
      (2)   Elected officials are frequently contacted by the media for
background and quotes. When contacted, elected officials should only comment on
behalf of the town when there is consistency and unity among elected officials
on the topic in question. Media outlets may search for inconsistencies in town
position statements by contacting multiple elected officials regarding the same
issue.
   (J)   Use of social media.
      (1)   Elected officials should make all attempts to be consistent and
united in the actions and decisions of the consensus of the town. If a
Councilmember is providing information or opinion on personal or political
social media sites that has not been determined to be the consensus of the
town, that Councilmember should ensure they include a disclaimer with their
post, such as "This post is my own, and does not represent the Town's official
position, strategy, or opinion."
      (2)   Councilmembers must remember that content and messages they post on
social media are public and may be cited as official town statements. Social
media should not be used to circumvent, or be inconsistent with, other town
communications, policies, or plans.
      (3)   Councilmembers should refrain from posting on social media sites
any information that contains confidential information, copyright violations,
profanity, or derogatory comments.
      (4)   Councilmembers should use the town's adopted Social Media Policy as
an additional guide for usage and expectations of social media use.
   (K)   Sanctions.
      (1)   Although the Council should seldom have occasion to discipline its
members, the Council has the right to make and enforce its own rules and to
require that Councilmembers, the Mayor, town staff and the public refrain from
conduct injurious to the accomplishment of Council business.
      (2)   Elected officials who intentionally and repeatedly do not follow
proper conduct may be reprimanded or formally censured by the Council. Serious
infractions of the Code of Conduct could lead to other sanctions as allowed by
North Carolina General Statutes and deemed appropriate by the Council.
      (3)   If a violation of this section occurs outside of a public meeting,
the alleged violation should be referred to the Mayor. If the Mayor perpetrated
the alleged breach, the Mayor Pro-Tem will be contacted. The Mayor/Mayor Pro-
Tem should ask the Town Attorney when appropriate to investigate the allegation
and report the findings to the Council. Elected officials or board members
alleged of violating this section should be notified by the Mayor/Mayor Pro-Tem
or Town Attorney within 72 hours of receiving the complaint.
(Ord. passed 10-12-15; Am. Ord. passed 6-13-16; Am. Ord. passed 5-14-18)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
(RESERVED)
CHAPTER 32: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
   
32.01   Code of ethics
§ 32.01 CODE OF ETHICS.
   (A)   It is the obligation of every elected and appointed town official and
employee to support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution
of the State of North Carolina.
   (B)   Laws of the nation, state and municipality shall be impartially
administered. No town official or employee shall grant any special
consideration, treatment or advantage to any citizen beyond that which is
available to every other citizen except by due process of law.
   (C)   Every citizen shall receive a fair and impartial hearing on any matter
coming before the Town Council, its appointed agencies or any employee of the
city. No town official or employee shall make any promise or pledge to any
person concerning any matter to be heard before such town official or employee
except upon fair, impartial and final hearing thereof.
   (D)   The conduct of town business shall be free of any hidden personal or
financial interest of any town official or employee. No town official or
employee shall advocate in any public meeting or private discussion incident
thereto any matter in which he has a personal or financial interest except upon
full and timely disclosure of such interest.
   (E)   It is the obligation of every town official to faithfully discharge
the duties of his office. In the conduct of town business, no town official
shall be excused from voting except on matters involving consideration of his
own official conduct, or where his financial interests are involved. Every town
official shall make full and timely disclosure of any personal or financial
interest which he has in any matter of business to be transacted before him.
   (F)   The conduct of town business shall be free of any influence arising
from gifts, favors or special privileges. It is the obligation of every town
official and employee to refuse personal gifts, favors or special privileges in
every instance where such town official or employee reasonably believes such
gift, favor or special privilege would not have been extended but for the
position of such town official or employee, or where there exists a reasonable
belief that the giver's interests are likely to be affected by the actions of
such town official or employee, or where the gift is or may reasonably be
considered to be designed to influence the actions of such town official or
employee. No town official or employee shall seek personal or financial
advantage by means of his office, appointment or employment.
   (G)   The use of public trust for private gain is forbidden in government.
No town official or employee shall violate the provisions of G.S. § 14- 234. No
town official or employee shall use confidential or advance information
obtained by virtue of his or her office, appointment or employment for personal
or financial advantage.
   (H)   It is the obligation of every elected and appointed town official and
employee to carry out the lawful orders and policies of the Council. No town
official or employee shall knowingly take any action inconsistent with the
lawful orders or policies established by the council. No town official or
employee shall knowingly take any action which would be detrimental to the best
interests of the town.
   (I)   Penalties for violation of this code will be determined by the Town
Council as covered within the General Statutes.
   (J)   All suspected violations must be submitted in writing to the Town
Clerk for review by the Mayor and Town Council. If action is needed, a hearing
will be scheduled. The town official or employee who is charged with the
violation shall have the right to present evidence, cross-examine witnesses,
including the complainant or complainants, and be represented by counsel at the
hearing. If, after such hearing and a review of all the violation of this
ordinance has occurred, they shall take whatever lawful disciplinary action
they deem appropriate, including but not limited to, reprimand, suspension,
demotion or termination of service.
(Ord., passed 11-12-79)
CHAPTER 33: TOWN POLICIES
Section
   
33.01   [Reserved]
§ 33.01 [RESERVED].
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SEWERS
      
51.   WATER SYSTEM
      
52.   GARBAGE COLLECTION
      
53.   STORM WATER
CHAPTER 50: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Sewer connections for improved property required
   
50.02   Maintenance of sewer connector pipe lines
   
50.03   Sewer tap fees
Water and Sewer Service Extension
   
50.15   Application for and approval of extensions required
   
50.16   General extension requirements
   
50.17   Method of paying for extensions within corporate limits
   
50.18   Method of paying for extensions outside corporate limits
   
50.19   Specifications, ownership
   
50.20   Additional subdivision improvement requirements
Residential and Commercial
Sewer User Charge
   
50.30   Definitions
   
50.31   Established rates; generally
   
50.32   [Reserved]
   
50.33   [Reserved]
   
50.34   No reduced rates or free service permitted
   
50.35   Determination of charges; generally
   
50.36   Metering water not discharged into sewer system for purpose of
determining charge
   
50.37   Engineering study to determine charge for commercial users where
portion of water not discharged into sewer
   
50.38   Billing
   
50.39   Adjustment of bill
   
50.40   Discontinuance of service for failure to pay
   
50.41   Continued use of sewer after refusal to pay
   
50.42   Implementation of regulations
   
50.43   Violations; furnishing town false information
   
50.44   Water/sewer fees
Industrial Sewer Use Charge
   
50.55   Definitions
   
50.56   Permits
   
50.57   Permit issuance and renewal
   
50.58   Permit conditions
   
50.59   Permit suspension or revocation
   
50.60   Quantity determination
   
50.61   Quality determination
   
50.62   Standard of quality
   
50.63   Accidental discharges
   
50.64   Ownership changes
   
50.65   Pretreatment
   
50.66   Testing wastes
   
50.67   Trade secrets
   
50.68   Established user charges
   
50.69   Town's average unit cost
   
50.70   Computation of user charges
   
50.71   User charge with water meter installed and users required to install
water meters
   
50.72   Implementation of regulations
Fats, Oils and Grease Control
   
50.85   Scope and purpose
   
50.86   Definitions
   
50.87   Grease interceptor maintenance, record keeping and grease removal
   
50.88   Enforcement
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 SEWER CONNECTIONS FOR IMPROVED PROPERTY REQUIRED.
   The owners of improved property within the town limits are hereby required
to connect such premises directly to the municipal sewer collection system at
the owner's expense as the service becomes available in their area, in
accordance with the town's rules and regulations.
(Ord., passed 12-12-83; Am. Ord., passed 10-13- 86) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.02 MAINTENANCE OF SEWER CONNECTOR PIPE LINES.
   The individual customer, at his or her own expense, shall be responsible for
servicing and maintaining his or her or its sewer connector pipe line or lines
from his or her or its source of waste water to the town's main sewer pipe
line.
(Ord., passed 12-12-88)
§ 50.03 SEWER TAP FEES.
   (A)   The residential sewer tap fee shall be as provided in the town’s
adopted budget ordinance.
   (B)   (1)   The sewer tap fees for all commercial businesses, including
shopping centers, shall be as provided in the town’s adopted budget ordinance.
   (C)   All sewer tap privilege fees must be paid at the time the compliance
permit is issued.
(Ord., passed 8-10-87; Am. Res., passed 11-12-90; Am. Ord., passed 12-10-01;
Am. Ord., passed 3-13-06)
WATER AND SEWER SERVICE EXTENSION
§ 50.15 APPLICATION FOR AND APPROVAL OF EXTENSIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any property owner, or owners, desiring water or sanitary sewer
service shall apply in writing to the Town Council requesting the extension of
water or sanitary sewer service or both. No request for the extension of
services shall be considered unless submitted in writing in accordance with the
requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   The town may require the applicant to submit as part of the written
application such information, plans or other data as may be required or needed
to adequately determine if the requirements of this subchapter are to be met.
   (C)   When application is made for a water or sewer extension or both to
serve an area or development that is planned as part of a larger development
project or subdivision, all of which is not to be developed at the time
application is to be made, the owner or owners shall submit plans in sufficient
detail in order to determine the size and type facilities which will be
necessary to serve the entire development or subdivision when completed.
   (D)   No extension to the water or sanitary sewer system of the town shall
be made and no application shall be approved except in accordance with the
requirements of this subchapter.
   (E)   Town Council shall consider all circumstances surrounding the
application and determine whether or not the public interest would be served by
acting on any application. Town Council shall determine the availability of
water supply and sewer service or the lack thereof in passing upon any
application for such services. Before approving any application for extension
of such utility services, Town Council must determine that such services are
adequately available and that the town's utility services are available in such
quantity that by approving the extension request the remainder of the system
will not be jeopardized in any way and that the public interest would be served
by approving the extension of utility services.
(Ord., passed 9-9-85)
§ 50.16 GENERAL EXTENSION REQUIREMENTS.
   All extensions of either water or sanitary sewer service shall be governed
by the following:
   (A)   The minimum or maximum distance for any extension of a water main or
sanitary sewer main shall be determined by the Town Council. In general, the
minimum distance for extension shall be one platted block, or in the case of
water mains from main line valve to valve and in the case of sanitary sewer
extension from manhole to manhole.
   (B)   The size of water mains and sanitary sewer mains to be installed and
the other required system facilities shall be determined by the Town Council in
accordance with the recognized standards and accepted engineering practices and
design and in accordance with applicable system plans adopted by the Town
Council.
   (C)   The Town Council shall determine the minimum size of lines and
determine the availability of utilities for any extension of service.
   (D)   The town may require payment in advance from the property owner making
application an amount of money determined by the town to be sufficient to cover
all costs for town to have its engineer or other persons to conduct a study of
the extension of services requested in order to estimate the total cost and for
Town Council to act on the application. The amount of money for cost of study
advanced by property owner with application will not be refundable and will not
be applied or credited to the cost of the extension of utility services, if
approved.
(Ord., passed 9-9-85)
§ 50.17 METHOD OF PAYING FOR EXTENSIONS WITHIN CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   Extensions to approved subdivisions or developed property.
      (1)   When application is received requesting the extension of water or
sanitary sewer service or both to serve property within the corporate limits
which is developed or has been previously approved as a subdivision, or where
streets have previously been dedicated and accepted by the town, and where such
area is not part of a new subdivision which has not been approved by the town,
the Town Engineer or other person designated by the Town Council shall estimate
the cost of the project and present the application for such extension, the
estimated cost and other required information to the Town Council and subject
to approval by Town Council and the receipt of funds for the extensions, the
town will install or have installed by contract under its supervision the
extensions which have been approved, and such extension shall be paid for in
accordance with this division.
      (2)   Prior to the beginning of any construction, the property owner or
owners shall advance to the town funds in an amount equal to 100% of the total
estimated cost of the proposed extensions. Upon receipt of such funds, a
written contract shall be entered into by and between the town and the property
owner or owners, under which the town will use such funds upon the following
terms and conditions:
         (a)   The funds shall be deposited in a special account of the town
for which a separate accounting will be made.
         (b)   At the time construction of the extension is completed and the
total cost thereof is determined, if the amount deposited exceeds the total
cost, that portion in excess of the amount deposited will be refunded to the
owner or owners without interest. If the amount deposited is less than 100% of
the total cost, the owner or owners shall pay such additional amount to the
town and this condition shall be a part of the written contract. The total cost
is to include all engineering, legal, inspections, rights of way, insurance,
and all other costs of the extensions.
         (c)   No refund or reimbursement of funds shall be made to the owner
or owners who pay the total cost of extension under the requirements of this
division (A) except as provided for in division (b) above.
   (B)   Extensions to proposed developments or subdivision.
      (1)   When an application is received requesting the extension of water
or sanitary sewer service or both to proposed developments or subdivisions
within the corporate limits which have not been approved by the Town Council,
the Town Engineer or other person designated by the Town Council shall estimate
the cost of the project and present the application for such extension, the
estimated cost and other required information to the Town Council for their
approval. If the application is approved and subject to the approval of the
development or subdivision of the town, and subject to approval by Town Council
and the receipt of funds for the extension, the town will install or have
installed by contract under its supervision such extensions which shall be paid
for in accordance with this subsection.
      (2)   Prior to the beginning of any construction, the property owner or
owners shall advance to the town funds in an amount equal to 100% of the total
estimated cost of the proposed extensions. Upon receipt of such funds, a
written contract shall be entered into by and between the town and the property
owner or owners, under which the town will use such funds upon the following
terms and conditions:
         (a)   The funds shall be deposited in a special account of the town
for which a separate accounting will be made.
         (b)   At the time construction of the extension is completed and the
total cost thereof is determined, if the amount deposited exceeds the total
cost, that portion in excess of the amount deposited will be refunded to the
owner or owners without interest. If the amount deposited is less than 100% of
the total cost, the owner or owners shall pay such additional amount to the
town and this condition shall be a part of the written contract. The total cost
is to include all engineering, legal, inspections, rights-of- way, insurance,
and all other costs of the extension.
         (c)   No refund or reimbursement of funds shall be made to the owner
or owners who pay the total cost of extension under the requirements of this
division (B) except as provided for in subsection (b) above.
   (C)   Exceptions authorized.
      (1)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent the Town Council from
extending water or sanitary sewer mains or both within the corporate limits on
their own motion without receipt of an application from property owners, and to
assess the cost of such extensions in accordance with authority granted to the
town by G.S. §§ 160A-216 through 260A-238 and related statutes when, in the
opinion of the Town Council, the general public interest demands such extension
of service.
      (2)   Any charges provided in this chapter shall be in addition to
established charges, such as tap fees and routine service, customarily imposed
by the Town Council.
(Ord., passed 9-9-85)
§ 50.18 METHOD OF PAYING FOR EXTENSIONS OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   All applications for water and sewer extensions outside the corporate
limits shall be made in the same manner and under the same requirements as
provided for in §§
50.15 and
50.16 and each division thereof.
   (B)   If an application is approved by the Town Council the owner or owners
shall be required to pay 100% of the total cost of all extensions. Provided,
the town may participate to the extent agreed upon by the Town Council in the
cost of larger size mains that are in excess of the size mains required to
serve the project, or the minimum size line required and approved by Council.
No reimbursement shall be made upon annexation. All water and sewer lines
connected to the town system and located outside the corporate limits shall
become the property of the town at the time such facilities are connected. All
right-of-way acquisitions and land costs are to be paid in full by applicant
with title vested in the town.
   (C)   Prior to the beginning of any constitutions, the owner or owners shall
deposit with the town funds in an amount equal to 100% of the total estimated
cost of such extensions. Upon receipt of such funds a written contract shall be
entered into by and between the town and the property owner or owners in
accordance with the requirements of this subchapter. Such contract shall
provide that in the event the funds deposited exceed the amount of the total
extension cost when completed, then that portion in excess of the total cost
will be refunded to the owner or owners without interest. Such contract shall
also provide that if the amount deposited is less than the total cost, when
completed, the owner or owners shall immediately pay such additional amount to
the town.
(Ord., passed 9-9-85)
§ 50.19 SPECIFICATIONS, OWNERSHIP.
   Any water mains or sanitary sewer mains extended under the provisions of
this subchapter shall be installed and constructed in accordance with the
approved plans, specifications and other requirements of the town. All
facilities installed under the provisions of this subchapter, whether within or
outside the corporate limits shall become the sole property of the town and
under its jurisdiction and control for any and all purposes whatsoever at the
time such facilities are connected to the town system. Any property owner, by
compliance with the terms of any contract or this subchapter shall be deemed to
have conveyed all such property to the town. When required, the property owner
or owners shall grant to the town such utility easements as the town may
require. In addition, a deed to the town for water or sewer facilities
installed which are located outside the corporate limits, the cost of which is
borne by individual property owners, shall be executed and delivered to the
town prior to the time any extensions provided for in this subchapter are
connected to the town systems.
(Ord., passed 9-9-85)
§ 50.20 ADDITIONAL SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   The Town Council may in its discretion, as a condition under which water or
sewer service or both will be extended, require the owner or owners of a
proposed subdivision to enter into an agreement to improve the proposed streets
therein at their own expense and in accordance with the ordinances then in
force governing the acceptance of public streets for the town. If required,
this section shall apply to subdivisions which are located either within or
outside the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord., passed 9-9-85)
RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL
SEWER USER CHARGE
§ 50.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   GENERAL MANAGER. The person authorized by the town to administer the sewer
system or his or her authorized representative.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE USER. Industries identified in the Standard Industrial
Classification Manual, Bureau of the Budget 1972, Office of Management and
Budget, as amended and supplemented, this being an official U.S. Government
publication and having its force of law under the following divisions:
      (1)   Division A - Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing.
      (2)   Division B - Mining.
      (3)   Division D - Manufacturing.
      (4)   Division E - Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas, and
Sanitary Services.
   RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL USERS.
      (1)   Single-family residence. A residential establishment serving a
single-family, or household. In those instances where there is no meter on the
water supply to the principal household, separate living quarters will be
considered as a separate resident and a separate sewer service charge will be
applied.
      (2)   Duplex resident. A single building equipped for occupancy by two
families.
      (3)   Multiple dwelling units. One or more buildings each equipped for
occupancy by three or more families.
      (4)   Commercial user. Any business or establishment which does not meet
the definition of residential user herein ((1),(2), and (3) above).
   SEWER FUND. The Sewer Fund of the town.
   SEWER STAFF. That group of employees engaged by the town to administer,
operate and maintain the Town's Sanitary Sewer System under the supervision of
the General Manager.
   TOWN'S SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM. All sanitary sewer systems and extensions or
enlargements thereof owned or operated by the town, or in which the town has an
equity of ownership, and there is specifically included the systems that have
been constructed by the town and those systems constructed by persons, as that
term is defined herein, and which have heretofore or may hereafter be acquired
by the town.
(Ord., passed 9-9-85)
§ 50.31 ESTABLISHED RATES; GENERALLY.
   The sanitary sewer service charges are as provided in the town’s adopted
budget ordinance for users in and outside of town.
§ 50.32 [RESERVED].
§ 50.33 [RESERVED].
§ 50.34 NO REDUCED RATES OR FREE SERVICE PERMITTED.
   All persons owning, renting, leasing or having management or control of
property or premises that produce waste that is discharged into the sanitary
sewers of the town, including domestic waste, and subject to the provisions of
this subchapter, shall be charged the rates established in this subchapter, and
no reduced rates or free sanitary sewer service shall be furnished to any such
person, property or premises. In all cases the owner of property shall have
final responsibility for the payment of sewer service charges.
(Ord., passed 9-9-85)
§ 50.35 DETERMINATION OF CHARGES; GENERALLY.
   In those instances where water meters are provided on the sources of water
providing water to the facilities discharging into the sanitary sewer system of
the town, water usage will be determined from the water meter readings, for the
purpose of determining the sewer service charge. As to such water sources that
are not metered, estimates of water usage will be made by the town and sewer
service charges based upon such estimate and will be in addition to those
determined from water meter readings, as more fully described in §
50.37.
(Ord., passed 9-9-85)
§ 50.36 METERING WATER NOT DISCHARGED INTO SEWER SYSTEM FOR PURPOSE OF
DETERMINING CHARGE.
   (A)   Any person owning or having control of property discharging waste into
the sanitary sewers of the town and on whose property there is located one or
more facilities requiring water (from the source of supply that also furnishes
water to the sanitary disposal facilities) and such water pro vided to such
facilities is not discharged into the sanitary sewers of the town, may at his
or her own expense, install a water meter of a type and design, and at a
location approved by the General Manager, on the water intake sources of such
facility, and the town will accept monthly readings from such meter taken and
provided to the town by such person or his or her duly authorized agent, such
monthly readings to be furnished on forms provided by the General Manager and
sworn to as correct by the person taking the reading. Meters installed for this
purpose shall be sealed by the town and the owners shall insure that the seal
is not broken.
   (B)   The amount of water indicated by such monthly reading of such meter
will be deducted from the reading of the town's water meter providing water to
such property and the resulting amount will be the water usage upon which the
sanitary sewer service charge established by this subchapter will be computed.
In the event such property is not supplied water by the town, such meter
reading will be deducted from the total water usage furnished to such property
as estimated by the General Manager as provided for in this subchapter.
   (C)   No facility for which a meter is installed under the provisions of
this section shall be connected to the sanitary sewer system of the town,
without the owner thereof having first notified in writing the General Manager
of such proposed connection.
   (D)   Employees of the sewer staff shall have the right, at any time during
regular business hours, to check the meter reading on such meter installed to
measure the amount of water provided to the facility not discharging waste into
the town's sanitary sewers, and to remove and test such meter at any time.
   (E)   Any person making a false affidavit as to the amount of water usage
registered by a meter installed under the provisions of this section, or any
person representing to the town that the facility for which a meter is
installed under the provisions hereof does not discharge waste into the town's
sanitary sewer when, in fact, it does, or any person having facilities for
which such a meter is installed who subsequently connects such facility to the
town's sanitary sewer system without notifying the General Manager, shall be
guilty of an offense. Each and every day that such violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense punishable as such in accordance with §
50.99.  A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord., passed 9-9-85; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22)
§ 50.37 ENGINEERING STUDY TO DETERMINE CHARGE FOR COMMERCIAL USERS WHERE
PORTION OF WATER NOT DISCHARGED INTO SEWER.
   (A)   The provisions of this section shall apply only to those commercial
water users who have facilities connected to the sanitary sewers of the town
and who make application to the General Manager under the provisions hereof.
   (B)   Any commercial water user owning or having control of property
discharging waste into the sanitary sewers of the town and on whose property
there is located one or more facilities requiring water (from the source of
supply that also furnishes water to the sanitary disposal facilities) and all
or part of such water provided to any such facility is not discharged into the
sanitary sewers of the town, may make application to the General Manager
requesting that an engineering study of the applicant's property and facilities
be made for the hereinafter stated purpose and paying the fee herein provided.
   (C)   Application made under the provisions of this section shall be upon
forms promulgated and furnished by the General Manager and the applicant shall
furnish all the information and other matters requested therein. The fee for
making the first application under the provisions hereof shall be $100 and, for
each subsequent application, the fee shall be $50. No fee shall be required for
studies initiated by the General Manager subsequent to the first application.
The fee is to partially reimburse the town for the expense of making the
engineering study and report. Each applicant shall agree, as a condition
precedent to the General Manager conducting the study, and tests provided for
herein, including those initiated by the General Manager, to indemnify and hold
harmless the town of and from any and all such liability for any act or
omissions by the town, its agents and employees, committed while conducting the
engineering studies and tests provided for herein, causing or resulting in
damages to the property or person of the applicant, his or her agents,
employees and invitees.
   (D)   Upon receipt of an application and the fee required herein, the
General Manager will, as soon as possible, make an engineering study of the
applicant's property and facilities. In those instances where, in the opinion
of the General Manager based upon an engineering study of the property and
facilities of the applicant, it is impractical or unfeasible for the applicant
to install one or more meters to measure the amount of water passing through
the water meter serving such property and not being discharged into the
sanitary sewers of the town, the General Manager is authorized to make an
engineering study to determine the percentage of the amount of water passing
through such meter that is being discharged into the sanitary sewers of the
town. A report of such determination, showing the basis thereof, shall be
certified to by the Town Council and one copy shall be retained by the General
Manager. Such report, when so filed, shall constitute the basis upon which the
sewer service charge established by this subchapter shall be computed.
   (E)   The General Manager is authorized, at his or her discretion or on
written request from an applicant, to make such additional engineering studies
from time to time of any such property and facilities to check the current
accuracy of the filed report on any such property, and if it is then determined
that the filed report's annual estimated effluent volume is now estimated to
differ by more than 5%, a new report, based upon the latest studies, shall be
filed with the Town Council to replace the prior one. A complete copy of each
such report shall be retained by the General Manager. No change in the basis of
computing the sewer service charge for any property will be made until the
first billing date after the filing by the General Manager with the Town
Council of the first or any subsequent report. Requests by an applicant for a
restudy under the provisions hereof will not be accepted or acted on more often
than once in every 12-month period (annually) subsequent to the filing of the
first report on the applicant's property, except when a substantial or material
change in a condition or operation of the applicant's property or facilities
tenders the then current filed report and the charges based thereon no longer
applicable to the applicant's property facilities.
   (F)   In the event it is necessary that certain testing instruments be
installed or that existing equipment or facilities located on the applicant's
property be altered, adjusted, disconnected or temporarily moved in order to
facilitate the making of a engineering study or test under the provisions of
this section, all of the foregoing shall be done by and at the expense of the
applicant.
   (G)   When the General Manager has, as a result of an engineering study made
under the provisions of this section, determined the percentage of metered
water passing through the water meters serving a property that is being
discharged into the sanitary sewers of the town, or when the amount of metered
water passing through the water meter serving such property and which is not
being discharged into the town's sanitary sewers is determined from a water
meter installed to measure the amount of such water, billings by the town for
sanitary sewer service to such property made prior to such determination shall
be reviewed for the purpose of making whatever adjustment is necessary in order
to charge such customer only for that amount of metered water that is or has
been discharged into the town's sanitary sewers. No adjustment shall be made in
excess of that determined to be proper from such engineering study or from the
metering of water that is not discharged into the sanitary sewers of the town.
   (H)   Once the proper percentage of adjustment has been determined and
certified to the Town Council under the provisions of this section, all
subsequent adjustment of water usage for sanitary sewer service charge purposes
shall be computed only on the certified basis of adjustment currently on file
with the Town Council.
(Ord., passed 9-9-85)
§ 50.38 BILLING.
   (A)   Billing for sewer service charges shall be made to the sewer customers
of the town concurrently with the monthly water bills issued by the town to
such customers. Those persons without water meters or with a source of water
supply other than the town, will also be billed monthly.
   (B)   All sewer charges shall be paid in full by the fifteenth of the month.
For sewer charges which remain unpaid beyond the fifteenth, the customer will
be assessed a penalty as determined by Town Council.
(Ord., passed 9-9-85)
§ 50.39 ADJUSTMENT OF BILL.
   In the event any adjustment in a water bill affects the basis on which the
sewer charge is levied for the same period, an appropriate adjustment in the
sewer charge shall be made by a credit on the next bill. In all cases the
General Manager shall certify to the validity of each adjustment.
(Ord., passed 9-9-85)
§ 50.40 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE FOR FAILURE TO PAY.
   The town shall have the right to discontinue sanitary sewer service to any
commercial user discharging into the sanitary sewers of the town who fails or
refuses to make timely payment of the sewer charges for which he or she is
billed, provided, however, in the event of a dispute as to the amount of
charges made, service shall not be terminated if the person charged deposits
with the town the amount of such charges on the condition that, upon the review
of the dispute and decision thereof by the Town Council of the town, which
decision shall be final, any amount the Town Council finds the customer is
entitled to have refunded shall be returned to him or her, and the balance
thereof shall be applied to satisfy the disputed charges.
(Ord., passed 9-9-85)
§ 50.41 CONTINUED USE OF SEWER AFTER REFUSAL TO PAY.
   Any person failing or refusing to pay the charges provided for in this
subchapter, or to deposit the proper sum in the event of a dispute as to the
amount of such charges, in the time and manner provided, and who continues to
discharge waste from his or her property into the sanitary sewer systems of the
town, shall be guilty of an offense and shall be punished in the manner
provided for in §
50.99. Each and every day that such violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense and shall be punishable as such. The conviction of a person
for such an offense shall not be a bar to the institution by the town of a suit
for the collection of the delinquent charges and for an injunction to enjoin
such person from discharging waste into the sanitary sewer systems of the town
without complying with the provisions of this subchapter and paying the charges
established hereby. A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord., passed 9-9-85; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22)
§ 50.42 IMPLEMENTATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All changes set forth in this subchapter shall become effective as of
the date that the town first begins operation of the sanitary sewer system.
   (B)   The processing of permit applications and/or completion of engineering
studies, where required, will be carried out by the sewer staff as quickly as
possible. However, delays in the processing of permit applications and the
completion of engineering studies are anticipated, as the provisions of this
subchapter are first put into effect.
   (C)   The General Manager may establish estimated volumes and
characteristics of sewage flow, based on best available data, prior to the
completion of engineering studies to serve as the temporary basis of
determining sewer use charges until such engineering studies are completed.
Charges so determined shall be adjusted for the entire period of application,
up or down, at the time of the first billing after completion of the required
engineering study. In any event, all users shall be liable for full payment of
all sewer user charges for sewer service rendered after the date this
subchapter becomes effective.
(Ord., passed 9-9-85)
§ 50.43 VIOLATIONS; FURNISHING TOWN FALSE INFORMATION.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this subchapter or knowingly
furnishing the town with false or fraudulent information, or failing to comply
with the provisions hereof, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined as provided in §
50.99. Each and every day that such violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense and be punishable as such. This penalty shall be in addition
to any other remedy, penalty or sanction provided for herein. A violation of
this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord., passed 9-9-85; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22)
§ 50.44 WATER/SEWER FEES.
   The schedule of charges provided in the town's annual adopted budget
ordinance will apply to water/sewer fees, including but not limited to, the
reconnect fee, the late fee, the water/sewer deposit, the water/sewer setup
fee, meter tampering fee and the meter test charge. These charges will remain
in effect until changed by the Town Council.
(Ord., passed 7-1-01; Am. Ord. passed 8-8-16)
Cross reference:
   Water/sewer fees also listed in §
51.36
INDUSTRIAL SEWER USER CHARGE
§ 50.55 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory conditions
for five days at a temperature of 20°C. reported in mg/l, as described in the
Fourteenth Edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
   COD (CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen consumed from a
chemical oxidation of inorganic and organic matter present in the water or
wastewater, expressed in mg/l, as described in the Fourteenth Edition of
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the
American Public Health Association.
   DOMESTIC WASTE. A typical, residential- type waste which requires no pre-
treatment under the provisions of this subchapter before discharging into the
sanitary sewer system, excluding all commercial, manufacturing, and industrial
waste.
   ESTABLISHMENT or PLANT. Any establishment or plant producing liquid waste,
with or without bearing suspended solids, required to be discharged into the
town sewer system.
   GENERAL MANAGER. The person authorized by the town to administer the sewer
system, or his authorized representative.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE USER. Industries identified in the Standard Industrial
Classification Manual, Bureau of the Budget 1972, Office of Management and
Budget, as amended and supplemented, this being an official U.S. Governmental
publication and having its force of law under the following divisions:
      (1)   Division A - Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing.
      (2)   Division B - Mining.
      (3)   Division D - Manufacturing.
      (4)   Division E - Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas, and
Sanitary Services.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any liquid, free- flowing waste, including cooling water,
resulting from any industrial or manufacturing process or from the development,
recovery, or processing of natural resources, with or without suspended solids.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER (MG/L). The same as parts per million (ppm) and is a
weight-to- volume ratio; when the milligram per-liter value is multiplied by
the factor 8.34, an equivalent to pounds per million gallons of water is
obtained.
   PERMIT. A written authorization granted by the General Manager to an
industrial customer for that customer to discharge sewage into the sewer system
and describing in detail the terms and limits of service.
   pH VALUE. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration
in grams per liter; i.e., ph= 1
                                           log (H+)
pH will be determined according to the Fourteenth Edition of Standard Methods
for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public
Health Association.
   PRODUCER. Any person, firm, association, corporation, or trust which owns,
operates, possesses, or controls an establishment or plant that is classified
as an industrial waste user.
   SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM or SEWERS or PUBLIC SEWERS or SEWAGE WORKS or SEWER
SYSTEM. All facilities for collecting, conveying, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sanitary sewage and industrial wastes. For the purpose of this
subchapter, however, waterways shall not be included in this definition.
   SEWER STAFF. The group of employees engaged by the town to administer,
operate and maintain the town's sanitary sewer system under the supervision of
the General Manager.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL WATER USER. An industrial waste user that contributes
greater than 10% of the design flow or design pollutant loading of the sewer
system.
   STANDARD METHODS. The Fourteenth Edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health
Association.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). Solids measured in mg/l that either float on
the surface or are in suspension in water, wastewater, or other liquids, and
which are largely removable by a laboratory filtration device, as defined in
the Fourteenth Edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
   USER CHARGE. Charges established under this subchapter for discharging
wastes into the sanitary sewer system.
(Ord., passed 3-8-82)
§ 50.56 PERMITS.
   (A)   All producers of industrial waste of any quantity, strength, or
quality and all producers who hereafter desire to connect and discharge to the
town sanitary sewer system shall make written application to the General
Manager for a permit authorizing such connection.
   (B)   Any producer currently discharging or proposing to discharge
wastewater into a town sewer in any quantity must:
      (1)   File a discharge report which must include, but not be limited to,
nature of process,
volume, rates of flow, production quantities, or any other information that is
relevant to the generation of waste, including substances and concentrations in
the wastewater discharge;
      (2)   Submit a plan showing location and size of on-site sewers, sampling
point, pretreatment facilities, town sewers, and any other pertinent details;
      (3)   Describe activities, facilities and plant processes on the premises
including all materials, processes and types of materials which are or could be
discharged;
      (4)   Each product produced by type, amount, and rate of production;
      (5)   The chemical components and quantity of liquid or gaseous materials
stored on- site, even though they may not normally be discharged into the sewer
system.
   (C)   The permit provisions do not apply to restaurants, automobile dealers
and/or gasoline service stations without automotive repair shop or car wash
facilities, and food dispensing services. Provided, however, these exempted
operations may be required to install a sampling well as required in §
50.66 and further any producer exceeding the limits established in §
50.62, Standard of Quality, and/or the 250 mg/l of suspended solids and/or BOD
will not be excluded from meeting all of the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord., passed 3-8-82)
§ 50.57 PERMIT ISSUANCE AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Applicant shall pay a fee of $50 for the issuance of an initial one-
year permit and an annual renewal fee thereafter of $25.
   (B)   A verified annual report shall be submitted certifying that there have
been no changes in operational procedures, or if there have been such changes,
furnishing the information thereof in such detail as may be required by the
town. Failure to submit such report shall constitute cause for the suspension
or revocation of the industrial waste discharge permit. In the event a permit
is cancelled for any cause under the provisions hereof, a fee of $150 shall be
charged for a subsequent initial permit issued to such applicant by the General
Manager.
(Ord., passed 3-8-82)
§ 50.58 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Industrial wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly subject to
all provisions of this subchapter and all other applicable ordinances or
regulations. Permits may include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the wastewater
to be discharged to the sanitary sewer;
      (2)   Allowable average and maximum strengths, characteristics or
constituents of the user's wastewater discharge;
      (3)   Limits on rate and time of discharge or requirements for flow
regulations and equalization;
      (4)   Regulations for installation of inspection and sampling facilities
which include requirements for the sewer staff's access to such facilities;
      (5)   Pretreatment requirements (if any);
      (6)   Regulations for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency and method of sampling, number, types and standards of
tests, and reporting schedules;
      (7)   Requirements for the submission of technical reports or discharge
reports;
      (8)   Requirements for the maintenance of plant records relating to
wastewater discharge and affording the sewer staff access thereto;
      (9)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the General Manager to
insure compliance, with this subchapter.
   (B)   Any significant change in wastewater strength or volume discharged
shall be reported to the General Manager for determination of need to change
the permit conditions.
(Ord., passed 3-8-82)
§ 50.59 PERMIT SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   The General Manager is authorized to suspend or revoke any permit
issued and terminate service at any time that the permittee:
      (1)   Violates any of the provisions of this subchapter or any other town
ordinance pertaining to sewage disposal into the town sewers; or
      (2)   Fails or refuses to pay, when due, charges made by the town for
such sewer services; or
      (3)   Discharges waste in a quantity or a quality violating the
provisions of the permit or otherwise prohibited by this subchapter or other
related town ordinances.
   (B)   If a permittee violates any condition of its permit, the permittee
shall submit written notice to the General Manager within 15 days of such
violation outlining the steps which will be taken to effectuate correction of
such violation. The violation shall be corrected within 30 days after the
occurrence of such violation, unless a different time schedule for correction
is approved by the General Manager.
   (C)   If the sewer staff discovers a violation of a permit condition, the
General Manager will give written notice of such violation to the permittee,
and the permittee shall within 15 days after receipt of such notice furnish the
town, in writing, of the proposed action which will be taken to effectuate
correction of such violation. The violation shall be corrected within 30 days
after the occurrence of such violation, unless a different time schedule for
correction is approved by the General Manager.
(Ord., passed 3-8-82)
§ 50.60 QUANTITY DETERMINATION.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, the quantity of waste delivered to the town
sewers will be construed as being the same as the water delivered to the
producer by the town water system. If it is ascertained that the water meter
has inaccurately measured the amount of water delivered to the permittee, then
and in that event the sanitary sewer charge established herein shall be
adjusted in the same manner as adjustments are made to the water bill.
   (B)   Should the producer evaporate or otherwise dispose of water delivered
by the town water system other than to the town sewer system, it shall be the
obligation of the permittee to install such meters or other devices to
determine the portion of quantity delivered to the sewer system. Such meters or
devices shall be approved by the General Manager and maintained and operated by
the permittee.
   (C)   After installation of the measuring equipment approved by the General
Manager it shall be the obligation of the permittee to conduct a test on such
measuring equipment at least once every 12 months to determine its accuracy and
the results thereof shall be furnished in writing to the General Manager. It
shall also be the permittee's responsibility to notify the General Manager
within a reasonable time in advance so that the General Manager may, if he
chooses, have a witness present during such test. If upon any such test the
percentage of accuracy is found to be within the accuracy tolerance as
established by the manufacturer's specifications, such measuring equipment
shall be determined to have correctly measured the quantity delivered to the
sewer system. If, however, upon any such test the percentage of accuracy is
found to be in excess of the accuracy tolerance specified by the manufacturer's
specifications, then such measuring equipment shall be immediately adjusted to
register correctly the quantity delivered to the sewer system. The billings to
such permittee shall be adjusted for a period extending back to the time when
the inaccuracy began, if such time is ascertainable, or for a period extending
back one- half of the time elapsed since the date of the last test or the date
of the last adjustment, if the time is not ascertainable.
   (D)   If in the opinion of the General Manager it is impractical or
infeasible for the producer to install a meter or meters to measure the
industrial waste being discharged into the sanitary sewer, the General Manager
may require that the town or the permittee perform an engineering study to
determine the percentage of water being discharged to the sanitary sewer
system. Such engineering study, when approved by the General Manager, shall
constitute the basis upon which the user charges established by this subchapter
shall be computed. One hundred dollars will be paid to the town by the
permittee to partially cover the expenses of making such engineering study if
the town performs the study. The General Manager is authorized, at his
discretion, to make additional engineering studies to check the current
accuracy of the initial report; and if the latest engineering report indicates
that the previous report was more than 5% inaccurate, the latest report will
replace the prior one. The cost of such additional reports conducted at the
discretion of the General Manager shall be borne by the town. A permittee may
request that the town perform an additional engineering study to check the
accuracy of the previous report. He may not, however, make such request more
frequently than once in every 12- month period; and, in this event, the
permittee will pay an additional $100 fee and if an inaccuracy greater than 5%
is indicated by the new engineering study the rate factor will be adjusted
accordingly and the $100 fee refunded.
   (E)   Any producer for which the water supply is from private wells shall
install, operate, and maintain at its expense such meters or other devices
necessary to determine quantity discharge to the sewer system. Such meters or
other devises installed shall be approved by the General Manager.
(Ord., passed 3-8-82)
§ 50.61 QUALITY DETERMINATION.
   (A)   Determination of the average concentration or strength of the waste
delivered shall be the obligation of the producer and tests made on
representative average samples collected by the producer shall be made at such
intervals, as the town may designate, so long as samples are taken not less
than annually. The cost of the initial and subsequent analysis shall be paid by
the permittee.
   (B)   Samples may be taken and tests made at the town's option without
notice to the permittee, and such test results made by the town shall fix the
applicable user charge established herein; provided, however, a permittee may
request in writing that its user charge be established pursuant to a composite
sample secured and analyzed by an independent laboratory approved by the town.
Such request must be approved in writing by the General Manager. If approved by
the General Manager, all costs of such composite sampling and subsequent
analyses shall be borne by the permittee and shall be conducted at not less
than three-month intervals. The town's approval of sampling and analyses
performed by an independent laboratory does not prevent representatives of the
sewer staff from taking additional samples at its option without notice to the
permittee.
   (C)   Written notice from the General Manager approving sampling and
analyses by an independent laboratory to establish user charges hereunder may
be cancelled by the General Manager by giving written notice of such
cancellation to the permittee.
   (D)   Sampling shall be conducted according to customarily accepted methods.
If, after receiving the permit application, the General Manager determines that
the operations or characteristics of the producer's industrial waste discharge
requires composite sampling, the General Manager may require same, which shall
be provided by the producer on the basis of an average work day. Otherwise, the
analysis will be made on the basis of grab samples. Guidelines for the
examination and analyses of the characteristics will be as recommended in the
Fourteenth Edition of Standard Methods. The Town may select an independent firm
or laboratory to determine flow, COD, BOD and suspended solids at the
permittee's expense.
   (E)   The General Manager may make periodic tests to determine the quality
of waste being discharged into the town sewer from the premises of permit
holders under the provisions hereof. If at any time the industrial process
changes or the quality of the industrial waste changes such that the additions,
modification or alteration of pretreatment is required to meet town standards,
the General Manager will then have the authority to require that approved
pretreatment facilities be installed by the permit holder. Should any permit
holder fail or refuse to install such facilities or initiate their installation
to the satisfaction and approval of the General Manager within 30 days after
receipt of written notice from the General Manager, the General Manager shall
have the authority to suspend or revoke such permit and to terminate sewer
service to such premises until such time as the permit holder has complied with
the requirements hereof.
(Ord., passed 3-8-82)
§ 50.62 STANDARD OF QUALITY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise required or approved, the delivery of all industrial
wastes from the producer to the town sanitary sewer shall be at a reasonably
uniform rate, as produced, without storage by the producer, except that storage
which is necessary in the pretreatment plant of the producer.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge or cause to be discharged any
subsurface drainage, storm or ground water, down spout or roof runoff, yard
sprinklers, drains, fountains or ponds into any sanitary sewer excluding
combined storm and sanitary sewers. Water from swimming pools, boiler drains,
blow-off pipes or cooling water from various equipment may be discharged into
the sanitary sewer by an indirect connection whereby such discharge is cooled,
if required, and flows into the sanitary sewer at a rate not to exceed the
design capacity of the sanitary sewer, provided that the waste does not contain
materials or substances in suspension or solutions in violation of the limits
prescribed by this subchapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to discharge or cause to be discharged into any
town sewer any of the following described substances, materials, waters, or
wastes:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 113° F. (45°
C.).
      (2)   Any water or waste which contains wax, grease, oil, plastic or
other substances that will solidify or become discernible viscous at a
temperature between 60° F. to 90° F.
      (3)   Flammable or explosive liquid, solids, or gas, such as gasoline,
kerosene, benzine, naphtha, etc.
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances such as ashes, cinders, sand, mud,
straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, whole
blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshlings, entrails, lime slurry, lime
residues, slops, chemical residues, paint residues, fiberglass, or bulk solids.
      (5)   Wastes from garbage grinders, except those wastes generated in the
preparation of foods that are generally consumed on the premises, and not
unless it has been properly comminuted or shredded to reduce all food scraps
and like particles to 3/16-inch or less in greatest dimensions. Garbage
grinders shall not be used for grinding plastics, paper products, garden
refuse, hospital or veterinarian refuse, or similar refuse for disposal into a
town sanitary sewer.
      (6)   Any noxious or malodorous substance which can form a gas; or which
either singly or by interaction with other wastes, is capable of causing
objectionable odors or hazard to life and property; or which forms solids in
concentrations exceeding limits established herein; or which creates any other
condition delete rious to structure or treatment processes; or which requires
unusual facilities, attention, or expense to handle such materials. A violation
of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
   (D)   Except in quantities or concentrations as herein authorized, it shall
be unlawful for any individual or corporation to discharge waters or wastes to
the sanitary sewer containing:
      (1)   Free or emulsified oil and grease on analysis an average of 200 mg/
l (1,666 pounds per million gallons) of either or both or combinations of free
or emulsified oil and grease, if such wastes:
         (a)   Deposit grease or oil in the sewer lines in such manner as to
obstruct the sewers;
         (b)   Overload the dischargers; skimming and grease handling
equipment;
         (c)   Are not amenable to biological treatment and will therefore pass
to the receiving waters without being affected by normal sewage treatment
processes; or
         (d)   Have adverse effects on the treatment process due to the
excessive quantities.
      (2)   Acids or alkalies which attach or corrode sewers or sewage disposal
structures or have a pH value lower than 6.0 or higher than 10.0, or which, due
to contents, may be reduced or changed with age or by sewage, to produce acid
or alkaline reactions.
      (3)   (a)   Salts of the heavy metals, in solution or suspension, in
concentrations exceeding the following, the analytical results to be expressed
in terms of the element indicated:
Element               mg/l
Arsenic               0.05
Barium               5.0
Boron                  1.0
Cadmium               0.02
Chromium               5.0
Copper               1.0
Lead                  0.10
Manganese               1.0
Mercury               0.005
Nickel                  1.00
Selenium               0.02
Silver                  0.10
Zinc                  5.0
         (b)   No other heavy metals or toxic materials may be discharged to
the sewer system without an industrial waste permit which shall specify
permitted concentrations.
      (4)   Cyanides or cyanogen compounds capable of liberating hydrocyanic
gas or acidification in excess of two mg/l as CN in the wastes from any outlet
into the town sewers.
      (5)   Radioactive materials exceeding the existing standards of the
state.
      (6)   Any wastewaters containing phenols or other taste producing
substances in such concentrations as to produce odor or taste in the effluent
as to affect the taste and odor of the receiving waters.
      (7)   Discharges which exert or cause:
         (a)   Excessive discoloration;
         (b)   Unusual BOD or an immediate oxygen demand;
         (c)   Unusual concentrations of solids or composition; as an example,
in total suspended solids of inert nature (such as Fuller's Earth) and/or in
total dissolved solids (such as sodium sulfate);
         (d)   High hydrogen sulfide content; or
         (e)   Unusual flow and concentration.
      (8)   Any substance which is not amenable to treatment or reduction by
the wastewater treatment process employed, or are amenable to treatment only to
such degree that the wastewater treatment plant cannot meet the requirements of
other agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters
without first retreating to a concentration acceptable to the town.
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause excessive discoloration such as, but
not limited to, dye wastes and tanning solutions.
(Ord., passed 3-8-82; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22)
§ 50.63 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Each permittee shall provide protection from accidental discharge or
prohibited materials or other wastes regulated by this subchapter.
   (B)   For countermeasures to be taken by the town to minimize damage to the
sanitary sewer program and/or degradation of the receiving waters, permittee
shall notify the town immediately upon accidentally discharging wastes in
violation of this chapter. This notification shall be followed within 15 days
of the date of occurrence by a detailed written statement describing the causes
of the accidental discharge and the measures being taken to prevent future
occurrence. Such notification will not relieve permittee of liability for any
expense, loss, or damage to the sanitary sewer system, or for any fines imposed
on the town on account thereof and/or for any enforcement action pursuant to
this occurrence.
   (C)   In order that officers, agents, and employees of permittees will be
informed of the town's requirements, permittees shall make available to their
employees copies of this subchapter together with such other wastewater
information and notices which may be furnished by the town from time to time
for the purposes of improving and making more effective water pollution
control. A notice shall be furnished and permanently posted on the permittee's
bulletin board advising officers, agents and employees who to call in case of
an accidental discharge in excess of the limits authorized by the permit.
   (D)   Any possible connection or entry point for a hazardous and/or
prohibited substance to the permittee's plumbing or drainage system shall be
appropriately labeled to warn operating personnel against discharge of such
substance in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord., passed 3-8-82)
§ 50.64 OWNERSHIP CHANGES.
   In the event a producer of industrial waste which is authorized to make a
connection to the town sewer for industrial waste disposal under the provisions
hereof is sold, leased or its operation is assumed or taken over by another
person, firm or corporation other than that named in the permit, a new
application for permit shall be made by the new owner, lessee, or operator. No
permit issued under the provisions hereof shall be assignable, and a violation
of this provision shall be grounds for summary suspensions or revocation of
such permit by the General Manager.
(Ord., passed 3-8-82)
§ 50.65 PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   Pretreatment will be required in the following instances and the
General Manager shall submit to the applicant the pretreatment levels which
must be obtained:
      (1)   If the General Manager determines upon the initial application for
a permit under this subchapter that the proposed industrial waste must be
pretreated by the applicant to lower the level of any of the components of the
industrial waste before discharge to the town sewer.
      (2)   If the town must improve the discharge from its wastewater
treatment plant to the receiving stream as a result of directives from federal
or state regulatory agencies, orders or judgments from courts of competent
jurisdiction, or changes in the discharge permit the town's wastewater
treatment plant or plants, then and in that event the General Manager will
require that a permit holder install or enlarge pretreatment facilities to
lower the affected component of the permittee's industrial waste discharge.
      (3)   If any wastewaters prohibited under the conditions of this
subchapter are produced, such producer shall pretreat the wastewater to the
extent required to comply with the standards established herein before
discharging to any town sewer.
      (4)   If the General Manager determines that a permittee, because of
plant expansion and/or changes in plant operations, has increased either the
strength or volume of discharge, the General Manager may require additional
pretreatment to lower the level of the volume and/or any components of the
industrial waste before discharge.
   (B)   Pretreatment facilities required under the foregoing divisions of this
section shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the permit holder's
expense.
   (C)   Any sludge or other material removed from the industrial waste by the
pretreatment facility shall be disposed of in accordance with applicable
federal, state and local laws.
   (D)   Dilution of waste discharged to the town sanitary sewer system is
prohibited, whether accomplished by the combination of two or more waste
streams by a producer or producers or by the addition of other liquids solely
for the purpose of diluting the quality of the waste discharge.
   (E)   One or more producers may upon application and approval by the General
Manager combine industrial waste streams prior to discharge to the town
sanitary sewer system if, and only if, such combination or industrial waste
streams produces a combined discharge of better quality than the two industrial
waste streams would have been if discharged separately. However, if one or more
producers are allowed to mix industrial waste streams to produce a better
discharge, the user charge established herein will be based on the quality of
its industrial waste streams prior to combination.
   (F)   Detailed plans showing any pretreatment facilities shall be submitted
to the General Manager for approval before construction of the facilities. The
review of such plans will in no way relieve such permit holders from the
responsibility of modifying and operating the facilities to produce an effluent
complying with the established conditions of the permit. Any subsequent,
significant changes in the approved facilities or method of operation shall be
reported to the General Manager and must be reviewed and approved by him as
complying with the provisions herein established.
   (G)   After the construction plans for such pretreatment plants have been
approved and a permit issued, the plans shall be placed on file in permanent,
reproducible form with the General Manager without cost to the town.
(Ord., passed 3-8-82)
§ 50.66 TESTING WASTES.
   (A)   It is a condition of the permit that the town may at any time test any
of the wastes being discharged by the company or plant for quality or quantity.
A duly authorized town representative may enter the permittee's premises at any
time during business or operational hours for the purpose of inspecting the
plant operations to estimate quality and quantity of wastes, as defined herein.
   (B)   It is a condition of the permit that the permittee will install
facilities at the permittee's expense for the purpose of the town's
representative inspecting, observing and sampling representative flows.
(Ord., passed 3-8-82)
§ 50.67 TRADE SECRETS.
   All information and data relating to a permittee obtained from reports,
questionnaires, permit applications, permits, monitoring programs and
inspections shall be available to the public without restriction unless the
user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the town that the release of such information to the general public would
divulge information or processes of methods that would give a business
advantage to competitors who do not otherwise have this information.
(Ord., passed 3-8-82)
§ 50.68 ESTABLISHED USER CHARGES.
   (A)   The user charges established herein shall be in lieu of any other town
sanitary sewer service charges.
   (B)   The user charges are to provide for the reimbursement of costs to the
town and the control necessary by the town to provide treatment for those
wastes of quantity and strength produced by industrial processes, including
wastes of characteristics difficult to treat for final disposal, but
economically amenable to the town system when pretreated or accepted without
pretreatment.
   (C)   These user charges are not in lieu of any sanitary sewer connection
charges.
   (D)   All user charges established herein shall be an obligation of the
permittee as a condition of keeping his permit valid.
(Ord., passed 3-8-82)
§ 50.69 TOWN'S AVERAGE UNIT COST.
   (A)   The following items shall be used to compute the average unit cost but
shall not be deemed to be exclusive of other pertinent factors:
      (1)   The total proposed Sewer Fund budget for the next year will be used
as a basis for figuring operation and maintenance expenditures plus the
following:
         (a)   Direct allocated salary costs plus the cost of fringe benefits
associated with such salary costs of employees of the town's administrative
offices assigned to the administrative functions of the Sewer Fund.
         (b)   Any other indirect costs to the Sewer Fund budget for the next
year.
         (c)   An appropriate part of the actual sewer billing costs.
         (d)   The annual debt service for retirement of sewer bonds.
      (2)   The city's average unit cost will be computed for each of the three
functions: volume of flow, BOD, and TSS. The total annual cost of operation and
maintenance divided by the total annual volume of flow, BOD, and TSS equals the
cost for each of the three functional units.
   (B)   The cost of operation shall be recomputed annually to reflect
increases or decreases in operation and maintenance costs and annual debt
service, and billing rates shall be revised as indicated.
(Ord., passed 3-8-82)
§ 50.70 COMPUTATION OF USER CHARGES.
   (A)   The user charges to be determined for all permitted manufacturing or
other producers of waste to which this subchapter applies will be computed by
the use of the following formula:
   UC - VX + VY [BOD + V2 (TSS)]
Formula Values are:
UC = User charge (in dollars) for each billing period.
V = Volume in thousands of gallons to the town sewer system during the billing
period.
X = Cost per 1,000 gallons of wastewater treated.
Y = Cost to remove one mg/l of BOD per 1,000 gallons.
Z = Cost to remove one mg/l of suspended solids per 1,000 gallons.
BOD = Five day, 20° C. biochemical oxygen demand content of the waste delivered
in mg/l.
TSS = Total Suspended Soils content of the waste delivered in mg/l.
   (B)   When either BOD or suspended solids in a delivered waste is more than
250 mg/l, this formula in division (A) will be used; where COD levels exceed
the tested BOD it shall be used as a substitute but in no event will either be
used at less than 250 mg/l in the computations.
   (C)   When an industry produces both domestic and process waste with one
connection to the sewer system, the waste so delivered will be considered as
industrial waste and the user charge computations will be in compliance with
division (A) or (B) above, based on the combined volume, BOD and suspended
solids content.
   (D)   A permittee may reduce his user charge rate by greater removals in
pretreatment or plant operation procedure, but once the pretreatment or plant
procedure is established to obtain uniform or lower rate, written consent from
the General Manager to increase the delivered strength shall be required, and
charges for a higher rate based on tests by the town may be made without other
notice to the permittees.
   (F)   Monthly billing for industrial waste disposal will be accomplished,
using the established procedures.
(Ord., passed 3-8-82)
§ 50.71 USER CHARGES WITH WATER METER INSTALLED AND USERS REQUIRED TO INSTALL
WATER METERS.
   (A)   For producers with installed water meters, the charges established
herein shall become effective from and after each producer's first regular
meter reading date after the issuance of the industrial waste permit. Producers
who are required under the provisions of this subchapter to install water
meters for the purpose of determining the charges established by this
subchapter shall have 30 days from the date of issuance of the industrial waste
permit to install such meters as are required herein, and the installation will
be at the producer's expense. Such meters will be of a type and standard and in
a location approved by the General Manager.
   (B)   Any person required to install a water meter under the provisions
hereof and who fails or refuses to do so in the time and manner required shall
be charged as provided herein based on water usage estimated by the General
Manager.
(Ord., passed 3-8-82)
§ 50.72 IMPLEMENTATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All changes set forth in this subchapter shall become effective as of
the date that the town first begins operation of the sanitary sewer system.
   (B)   The processing of permit applications and/or completion of engineering
studies, where required, will be carried out by the sewer staff as quickly as
possible. However, delays in the processing of permit applications and the
completion of engineering studies are anticipated, as the provisions of this
subchapter are first put into effect.
   (C)   The General Manager may establish estimated volumes and
characteristics of sewage flow, based on best available data, prior to the
completion of engineering studies to serve as the temporary basis of
determining sewer use charges until such engineering studies are completed.
Charges so determined shall be adjusted for the entire period of application,
up or down, at the time of the first billing after completion of the required
engineering study. In any event all users shall be liable for full payment of
all sewer user charges for sewer service rendered after the data that the town
first began operation of the sanitary sewer system.
(Ord., passed 3-8-82)
FATS, OILS AND GREASE CONTROL
§ 50.85 SCOPE AND PURPOSE.
   To aid in the prevention of sanitary sewer blockages and obstructions from
contribution and accumulation of fats, oils and greases into such sewer system
from industrial or commercial establishments, particularly food preparation and
serving facilities.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09)
§ 50.86 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COOKING ESTABLISHMENTS. Those establishments primarily engaged in activities
of preparing, serving or otherwise making available for consumption foodstuffs
and that use one or more of the following preparation activities: cooking by
frying (all methods), baking (all methods), grilling, sautéing, rotisserie
cooking, broiling (all methods), boiling, blanching, roasting, toasting or
poaching. Also included are infrared heating, searing, barbecuing and any other
food preparation activity that produces a hot, non-drinkable food product in or
on a receptacle that requires washing.
   FATS, OILS AND GREASES. Organic polar compounds derived from animal and/or
plant sources that contain multiple carbon chain triglyceride molecules. These
substances are detectable and measurable using analytical test procedures
established in 40 C.F.R. 136, as may be amended from time to time. All are
sometimes referred to herein as “grease” or “greases”.
   GREASE TRAP or INTERCEPTOR.  A device for separating and retaining
waterborne greases and grease complexes prior to the wastewater exiting the
trap and entering the sanitary sewer collection and treatment system. These
devices also serve to collect settlable solids, generated by and from food
preparation activities, prior to the water exiting the trap and entering the
sanitary sewer collection and treatment system. GREASE TRAPS and INTERCEPTORS
are sometimes referred to herein as “grease interceptors”.
   MINIMUM DESIGN CAPABILITY. The design features of a grease interceptor and
its ability or volume required to effectively intercept and retain greases from
grease-laden wastewaters discharged to the public sanitary sewer.
   NON-COOKING ESTABLISHMENTS. Those establishments primarily engaged in the
preparation of pre-cooked foodstuffs that do not include any form of cooking.
These include cold dairy and frozen foodstuffs preparation and serving
establishments.
   USER. Any person, including those located outside the jurisdictional limits
of the town, who contributes, causes or permits the contribution or discharge
of wastewater into the town’s wastewater collection system, including persons
who contribute such wastewater from mobile sources, such as those who discharge
hauled wastewater.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09)
§ 50.87 GREASE INTERCEPTOR MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING AND GREASE REMOVAL.
   (A)   Grease interceptors shall be installed by users as required by the
town Director of Public Works (“Director”) or his or her designee. Grease
interceptors shall be installed at the user’s expense, when such user operates
a cooking establishment. Grease interceptors may also be required in non-
cooking or cold dairy and frozen foodstuffs establishments and other industrial
or commercial establishments when they are deemed necessary by the Director for
the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease. No user shall allow
wastewater discharge concentration from subject grease interceptor to exceed
325 milligrams per liter, as identified by method EPA Method 1664 or 275
milligrams per liter, as identified by EPA Method 413. All grease interceptors
shall be of a type, design and capacity approved by the Director or his or her
designee and shall be readily and easily accessible for user cleaning and town
inspection. All such grease interceptors shall be serviced and emptied of
accumulated waste content as required in order to maintain minimum design
capability or effective volume of the grease interceptor, but no more than 75%
of the total capacity of the grease interceptor. Users who are required to pass
water through a grease interceptor shall:
      (1)   Provide for a minimum hydraulic retention time of 24 minutes at
actual peak flow or 12 minutes at the calculated theoretical peak flow rate as
predicted by the Uniform Plumbing Code fixture criteria, between the influent
and effluent baffles with 20% of the total volume of the grease interceptor
being allowed for sludge to settle and accumulate, identified hereafter as a
“sludge pocket”;
      (2)   Remove any accumulated grease cap and sludge pocket as required,
but at intervals of not longer than 30 days at the user’s expense. Grease
interceptors shall be kept free of inorganic solid materials such as grit,
rocks, gravel, sand, eating utensils, cigarettes, shells, towels, rags and the
like, which could settle into this pocket and thereby reduce the effective
volume of the grease interceptors.
      (3)   Accept the following conditions: if any skimmed or pumped wastes or
other materials removed from grease interceptors are treated in any fashion on-
site and reintroduced back into the grease interceptor as an activity of and
after the on-site treatment, the user shall be responsible for the attainment
of established grease numerical limit consistent with and contained in division
(A) above on all discharges of wastewater from the grease interceptor into the
town sanitary sewer collection and treatment system.
      (4)   Operate the grease interceptor in a manner so as to maintain the
device such that attainment of the grease limit is consistently achieved.
CONSISTENT shall mean any wastewater sample taken from the grease interceptor
shall be subject to terms of numerical limit attainment described in division
(A) above. If an establishment desires, because of documented space
constraints, an alternate to an out-of-building grease interceptor, the request
for an alternative location shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Location of town sewer main and easement in relation to
available exterior space outside the building; and
         (b)   Existing plumbing at or in a site that uses common plumbing for
all services at that site.
   (B)   The use of biological additives as a grease degradation agent is
conditionally permissible, upon prior written approval by the Director. Any
establishment using this method of grease abatement shall maintain the trap or
interceptor in such a manner that attainment of the grease wastewater discharge
limit, as measured from the trap’s outlet, is consistently achieved.
   (C)   The use of automatic grease removal systems is conditionally
permissible, upon prior written approval by the Director and the Cabarrus
County Health Department. Any establishment using this equipment shall operate
the system in such a manner that attainment of the grease wastewater discharge
limit, as measured from the unit’s outlet, is consistently achieved.
   (D)   The Director reserves the right to make determinations of grease
interceptor adequacy and need, based on review of all relevant information
regarding grease interceptor performance, facility site and building plan
review and to require repairs to, modification or replacement of such traps.
   (E)   The user shall maintain a written record of trap maintenance for three
years. All such records will be available for inspection by the town at all
times.
   (F)   No non-grease-laden sources (such as non-grease wastewater from
toilets and showers) are allowed to be connected to sewer lines intended for
grease interceptor service.
   (G)   Access manholes, with a minimum diameter of 24 inches, shall be
provided over each chamber and sanitary tee. The access manholes shall extend
at least to the finished grade and be designed and maintained to prevent water
inflow or infiltration. The manholes shall also have readily removable covers
to facilitate inspection, grease removal and wastewater sampling activities.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09)
§ 50.88 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Except as provided herein, for a period of one year following adoption
of this subchapter, although installation of grease interceptors will be
required to be installed, no enforcement actions will be taken under this
subchapter for failure to achieve limits on grease discharges from grease
interceptors. If, during this one year period, an obstruction of a town sewer
main(s) occurs that causes a sewer overflow to the extent that an impact on the
environment is realized and that the overflow or failure of the sanitary sewer
collection system to convey sewage can be attributed in part or in whole to an
accumulation of grease in the town’s sewer main(s), the town may take
appropriate enforcement actions against the generator and/or contributors of
such grease as provided below.
   (B)   The penalties for violation of this subchapter shall be as provided in
§
10.99 of the Harrisburg Code of Ordinances. A violation of this section is
punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   In addition to any other remedies cited in this chapter for the
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, the regulations and standards
contained in this chapter may be enforced through the issuance of citations by
the appropriate town official. These citations shall be in the form of a civil
penalty. The town may recover this penalty in a civil action in the nature of a
debt if the offender does not pay the penalty within 72 hours after being cited
for a violation. In addition, failure to pay the civil penalty within 72 hours
may subject the violator to criminal charges, in accordance with G.S. § 14-
4 and shall be considered a misdemeanor with a fine in an amount not to exceed
$500 for each offense. The following civil penalties are established for
violations under this section:
         (a)   Warning citations: correct violation within ten days.
         (b)   First citation, $25.
         (c)   Second citation, for same offense, $100.
         (d)   Third and subsequent citation for same offense, $200.
      (2)   These civil penalties are in addition to any other penalties which
may be imposed by a court for violation of the provisions of this code of
ordinances.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing enforcement provisions, this chapter may
be enforced by any remedy provided in G.S. § 160A-175 including, but not
limited to, all appropriate equitable remedies issued from a court of complete
jurisdiction as provided in G.S. § 160A-175(e). This section specifically
provides that each day's continuing violation shall be a separate and distinct
offense.
(Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22)
CHAPTER 51: WATER SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Mandatory water hookup
   
51.03   Location of water facilities
   
51.04   Water facilities and appurtenances to remain property of town
   
51.05   Town's right to prohibit service
   
51.06   Maintenance by customer
   
51.07   Liability of city
   
51.08   [Reserved]
   
51.09   Meter readings; inspection of plumbing
   
51.10   Applications and permits
   
51.11   Charges for tapping water main
   
51.12   Applicant for service at location with existing water tap
   
51.13   Transferring service
   
51.14   Subdivision extension
   
51.15   Private fire protection services; charges
   
51.16   Use of private wells; sale or furnishing water prohibited
   
51.17   Meters
   
51.17A   Irrigation meters
   
51.18   Bypass around meters
   
51.19   Unauthorized work on system
   
51.20   Trespassing on town water property or facilities
Rates and Charges; Billing
   
51.30   Deposit required as security for payment of water charges
   
51.31   Monthly user charges for water service
   
51.32   Bills; payments; discontinuance of service for nonpayment
   
51.33   Responsibility for water bills
   
51.34   Requested discontinuance of service
   
51.35   Meter testing
   
51.36   Water/sewer fees
Cross-Connection Control
   
51.50   Definitions
   
51.51   Purpose
   
51.52   Responsibility of town and customer
   
51.53   Right of entry
   
51.54   Cross-connection prohibited
   
51.55   Installation and testing of backflow prevention assembly
   
51.56   Degree of hazards
   
51.57   Low hazard
   
51.58   Imminent hazard
   
51.59   Notice of contamination or pollution
   
51.60   Fire protection system
   
51.61   Enforcement
Mandatory Water Conservation
   
51.70   Water emergency management
   
51.71   Service connection violations; penalties
   
51.72   Enforcement
   
51.73   Construction of terms
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Water and sewer service extension, see §§
50.15 through
50.20
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICATION. The instrument by which water service is requested, and
contains the names and location of those who desire water service.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. A connection from the authorized metered service line of
water user, to the water plumbing system of an unauthorized user; also, a
CROSS-CONNECTION is a connection between a piped distribution system carrying a
potable public water supply and an existing secondary piping system, the water
supply source of which is distinct from and unrelated physically to that of the
potable
public supply and may contain pollutants which could, under adverse condition,
backflow into the public water system.
   CUSTOMER or CONSUMER. The actual user of water service.
   OWNER. The person or persons holding legal title to the serviced premises;
but an owner, tenant or tenants leasing, subleasing, renting or occupying a
piece of property, or agent, may make application for water service subject to
the provisions of these rules and regulations.
   PLUMBING. All pipes, fittings and appurtenances on the property owner's side
of the meter, serving only the property of the owner, including the extension
from the service line up to and including all house plumbing.
   SERVICE LINE. The water line from the distribution main to and including the
meter, meter box, corporation stop and other appurtenances installed by the
town.
   SUBDIVISION. A tract of land into two or more lots, and shall include all
division of land involving the dedication of a new street.
(Ord., passed 1-13-79; Am. Ord., passed 4-14-86; Am. Ord., passed 5-20-87; Am.
Ord., passed 7-11-88)
§ 51.02 MANDATORY WATER HOOKUP.
   (A)   Each household and/or business within the town limits shall be
required to subscribe to the municipal water system as it becomes available in
that area. To “subscribe” as used in this section means either to hook onto and
use the municipal water system or pay the fees and deposits for availability of
the municipal water system, as set forth below. Any such household and/or
business which is using the municipal sewer system must use the municipal water
system.
   (B)   If a household and/or business within the town limits has an approved
private water system, such as a well, which services that household or
business, that household or business may continue to use its private water
system, so long as the household or business pays to the town the following
fees and deposits:
      (1)   Refundable water bill deposit;
      (2)   Account set up fee;
      (3)   Standard connection charge; and
      (4)   Monthly minimum water provisions fee.
   (C)   Payment of the fees and deposits described in division (B) above shall
be on such terms as the town may direct. The amount of such fees and deposits
shall be the prevailing rate or charge set forth from time to time by the town.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other ordinance relating to the water system,
failure to timely pay these fees and deposits and/or any penalty imposed by the
water system ordinances for noncompliance or violation shall subject the
subscriber to termination of any other utility services provided by the town.
These remedies shall be in addition to any other remedy available to the town.
(Ord. 700, passed 7-9-79; Am. Ord., passed 12-10-01)
§ 51.03 LOCATION OF WATER FACILITIES.
   No water facilities shall be installed under the provisions outlined in this
chapter and accepted for ownership and maintenance by the town except those in
a dedicated public right-of-way or dedicated public easement.
(Ord., passed 1-13-79; Am. Ord., passed 4-14-86; Am. Ord., passed 5-20-87; Am.
Ord., passed 7-11-88)
§ 51.04 WATER FACILITIES AND APPURTENANCES TO REMAIN PROPERTY OF TOWN.
   All water facilities and appurtenances, other than the plumbing, when
installed or accepted by the town, shall become and remain the property of the
town; and no person, by payment of a charge or fee, or by any construction of
facilities accepted by the town, may acquire any interest or right in any of
these facilities, or any portion thereof, other than the privilege of having
their property connected thereto and service in accordance with these
regulations.
(Ord., passed 1-13-79; Am. Ord., passed 4-14-86; Am. Ord., passed 5-20-87; Am.
Ord., passed 7-11- 88)
§ 51.05 TOWN'S RIGHT TO PROHIBIT SERVICE.
   The payment of any costs or fees, submitting of any petition, or any other
act requesting water service does not guarantee that such service shall be
forthcoming. The town shall have the right to refuse to extend service upon any
reasonable grounds, and specifically for any use detrimental to the water
system, nonpayment of required fees, or if, in the sole opinion of the town, it
is not economically feasible.
(Ord., passed 1-13-79; Am. Ord., passed 4-14-86; Am. Ord., passed 5-20-87; Am.
Ord., passed 7-11- 88)
§ 51.06 MAINTENANCE BY CUSTOMER.
   The customer shall be responsible for the installation and maintenance of
all plumbing, from the meter into and including the house plumbing; and the
town shall have the right to discontinue service to any property that does not
install or maintain the plumbing or abide by the Plumbing Code and the town's
meter specifications. Further, should the customer require water at a pressure
different from that supplied by the town, it shall be his or her responsibility
to install the necessary devices to make the adjustments.
(Ord., passed 1-13-79; Am. Ord., passed 4-14-86; Am. Ord., passed 5-20-87; Am.
Ord., passed 7-11- 88)
§ 51.07 LIABILITY OF CITY.
   The town shall not be liable to consumers, owners, or any person for the
failure to furnish water for any purpose or under any conditions, or for any
damage that may result from the shutting off of water from the mains or
reservoirs, even though no notice of the shutting off of water shall have been
given. All permits and contracts for the use of water from the water system of
the town are expressly made subject to the provisions hereof.
(Ord., passed 1-13-79; Am. Ord., passed 4-14-86; Am. Ord., passed 5-20-87; Am.
Ord., passed 7-11- 88)
§ 51.08 [RESERVED].
§ 51.09 METER READINGS; INSPECTION OF PLUMBING.
   The city reserves the right to make a meter reading and inspect the plumbing
on a customer's property. This may be done in the case of an abnormally large
water bill, in cases of extreme water wastage, use of water detrimental to the
town system or other reasons deemed necessary by the town.
(Ord., passed 1-13-79; Am. Ord., passed 4-14-86; Am. Ord., passed 5-20-87; Am.
Ord., passed 7-11- 88)
§ 51.10 APPLICATIONS AND PERMITS.
   (A)   Application for water tap. All persons desiring to purchase water from
the town must first make application for water tap to the proper town office,
stating where the water is desired and the purpose for which it is to be used.
Such application shall be made and signed by the owner of the premises where
the water is desired or by his or her duly authorized agent. In signing an
application for service, the applicant assumes all risk and liability for any
accident due to not placing a safety valve on his or her water heater or
boiler, and hereby releases the town from all claims of damage of any kind or
description.
   (B)   Scope of permit. Upon such application, a permit will be issued by the
town which must specify the purpose for which the water is desired and which
the permit is to cover, and whenever water is to be used for any other purpose
than that specified in the permit.
(Ord., passed 1-13-79; Am. Ord., passed 4-14-86; Am. Ord., passed 5-20-87; Am.
Ord., passed 7-11- 88)
§ 51.11 CHARGES FOR TAPPING WATER MAIN.
   (A)   The schedule of charges provided in the town’s adopted budget
ordinance will apply to any applicant tapping into a water main. These charges
will remain in effect until changed by the Town Council.
   (B)   The water service connection charge and the tapping privilege fee
shall be paid at the time of making the application for service. Upon having
the water turned on at the service location, the applicant will be required to
pay a processing charge of $25. (Ord., passed 1-13-79; Am. Ord., passed 4-14-
86; Am. Ord., passed 5-20-87; Am. Ord., passed 7-11-88)
   (C)   All water tap privilege fees must be paid at the time the compliance
permit is issued.
(Ord., passed 11-12-90; Am. Ord., passed 3-13-06)
§ 51.12 APPLICANT FOR SERVICE AT LOCATION WITH EXISTING WATER TAP.
   Upon requesting water service at a location with an existing water tap, an
applicant will be required to pay a charge of $25 for the costs associated with
processing the applicant for water service.
(Ord., passed 1-13-79; Am. Ord., passed 4-14-86; Am. Ord., passed 5-20-87; Am.
Ord., passed 7-11-88; Am. Ord., passed 3-13-06)
§ 51.13 TRANSFERRING SERVICE.
   Upon transferring from one location with an existing water tap to another
location with an existing water tap, the applicant will be required to pay a
charge of $25 for the costs associated with processing the service transfer.
(Ord., passed 1-13-79; Am. Ord., passed 4-14-86; Am. Ord., passed 5-20-87; Am.
Ord., passed 7-11-88; Am. Ord., passed 3-13-06)
§ 51.14 SUBDIVISION EXTENSION.
   A developer desiring to connect a new subdivision will be required to
install the water mains, hydrants, valves and appurtenances at his or her own
expense. Lines must be installed to town standards and deeded to the town upon
completion. Plans will be submitted to the town for written approval.
(Ord., passed 1-13-79; Am. Ord., passed 4-14-86; Am. Ord., passed 5-20-87; Am.
Ord., passed 7-11-88)
§ 51.15 PRIVATE FIRE PROTECTION SERVICES; CHARGES.
   By maintaining adequate water distribution lines and water pressure, the
town provides private fire protection service to special water customers. All
customers receiving benefit from special installed fire lines, fire hydrants or
sprinkler systems shall be subject to the following special charges for private
fire protection service provided in the town’s adopted budget ordinance.
(Ord., passed 1-13-79; Am. Ord., passed 4-14-86; Am. Ord., passed 5-20-87; Am.
Ord., passed 7-11-88)
§ 51.16 USE OF PRIVATE WELLS; SALE OR FURNISHING WATER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Any person who connects his or her household premises to the town
water system for domestic water service may continue the use of a private well
only as provided in this chapter. There shall be no cross-connection of the
town water system with any private well or any other source of water supply.
   (B)   No person having a private well within the town being used as herein
permitted shall give, sell or furnish water to persons of another household or
business; and the owner of such private well shall not permit water from the
well to be used or consumed except for the household where the well is located
and as permitted by this chapter.
   (C)   No person or corporation shall supply or furnish water to any
household or business within the town other than the town.
(Ord. 700, passed 7-9-79; Am. Ord., passed 11-10- 80; Am. Ord., passed 11-22-
82; Am. Ord., passed 3-28-83; Am. Ord., passed 12-10-01) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.17 METERS.
   All meters shall be installed and owned by the town and the town reserves
the right to remove, test, seal and interfere with the meter for causes deemed
justifiable. The owner shall properly protect the meter from injury, vandalism
or any other cause, and shall be liable for the damage for any cause. If a
meter is out of order and fails to register, the customer will be charged at
the average rate of consumption as shown by the meter when in order. All water
that passes through the meter will be charged for, whether the water is used or
wasted. A separate meter connection shall be required for every customer and
for multiple connections by a single customer, including any connection used
for in-ground irrigation systems. Water meters are not permitted in driveways.
(Ord., passed 1-13-79; Am. Ord., passed 4-14-86; Am. Ord., passed 5-20-87; Am.
Ord., passed 7-11- 88; Am. Ord., passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord., passed 11-9-15)
§ 51.17A IRRIGATION METERS.
   (A)   All new in-ground irrigation systems installed after enactment of this
section that will be supplied water from the town water system shall be
independently connected to the system and water consumption shall be measured
through a separate irrigation meter.
   (B)   An irrigation service line may be installed by a direct tap into the
main (separate tap) or by a split line off the non-irrigation service line at a
point between the main and non-irrigation meter (split tap). Either method of
connection shall be performed by the Town Public Works Department.
   (C)   An irrigation service line, the irrigation meter and all related
appurtenances shall be installed in accordance with the same fees, regulations,
policies and procedures that apply to non-irrigation meters.
§ 51.18 BYPASS AROUND METERS.
   No bypass around any meter shall be installed unless determined by the town
to be necessary, and the installation is to be performed by the town; and where
such devices exist, the use of same shall be regulated by the town.
Unauthorized use of bypass may result in removal of meter as well as all other
penalties, civil or criminal, provided by law. A violation of this section is
punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord., passed 1-13-79; Am. Ord., passed 4-14-86; Am. Ord., passed 5- 20-87; Am.
Ord., passed 7-11-88; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22)
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.19 UNAUTHORIZED WORK ON SYSTEM.
   No unauthorized person shall tamper with, work on or in any way alter or
damage any town water facility. This shall include the opening or closing of
valves, turning on hydrants or causing any water, not legally paid for, to flow
from the system. No person except authorized employees or agents of the town
shall cut into or make any connection to the system. The offending person or
persons shall pay all costs attributable to such tampering, as well as being
subjected to all penalties as prescribed by law. A violation of this section is
punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord., passed 1-13-79; Am. Ord., passed 4-14-86; Am. Ord., passed 5- 20-87; Am.
Ord., passed 7-11-88; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22)
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.20 TRESPASSING ON TOWN WATER PROPERTY OR FACILITIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter upon, walk, ride, bathe, swim,
boat, skate, hunt, fish or trespass in any manner upon any portion of any pond,
reservoir, watershed or any land or building owned, leased or controlled by the
town, and used either directly or indirectly in association with the town water
system and related facilities. A violation of this section is punishable as a
misdemeanor.
(Ord., passed 1-13-79; Am. Ord., passed 4-14-86; Am. Ord., passed 5- 20-87; Am.
Ord., passed 7-11-88; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22)
Penalty, see §
51.99
RATES AND CHARGES; BILLING
§ 51.30 DEPOSIT REQUIRED AS SECURITY FOR PAYMENT OF WATER CHARGES.
   (A)   As security for the payment of bills for service under the schedule
set out in §
51.11, each prospective customer shall deposit with the Town Clerk an amount to
be fixed by the town. This amount of the deposit will be approximately one and
one-half times the average monthly consumption expectancy and shall in no event
be less than $45. If a customer represents an undue risk, the town reserves the
right to charge a reasonable amount in excess of $45.
   (B)   Upon the discontinuance of water service and upon the payment of all
charges and/or bills for repair, the deposit theretofore made shall be
refunded.
(Ord., passed 1-13-79; Am. Ord., passed 4-14-86; Am. Ord., passed 5-20-87; Am.
Ord., passed 7-11- 88; Am. Ord., passed 7-1-01)
§ 51.31 MONTHLY USER CHARGES FOR WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   The water user charges provided in the town’s adopted budget ordinance
will be in effect for users in and outside of town.
   (B)   The minimum monthly charge for customers with master meters shall be
the standard rate times the number of units served.
   (C)   The customer's monthly water meter reading will be used to determine
water usage.
(Ord., passed 1-13-79; Am. Ord., passed 4-14-86; Am. Ord., passed 5-20-87; Am.
Ord., passed 7-11- 88; Am. Ord., passed 7-1-97; Am. Ord., passed 7-1-01; Am.
Ord., passed 7-01-02; Am. Ord., passed 3-13-06; Am. Ord., passed 10-13-08; Am.
Ord., passed 6-8-09)
§ 51.32 BILLS; PAYMENTS; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE FOR NONPAYMENT.
   (A)   Bills shall be rendered monthly for water and must be paid by the
fifteenth of the month. For water charges which remain unpaid beyond the
fifteenth, the customer will be assessed a penalty as determined by Town
Council, in the town’s adopted budget ordinance.
   (B)   All bills shall be paid at the town office. Checks may be mailed
payable to "Town of Harrisburg".
(Ord., passed 1-13-79; Am. Ord., passed 4-14-86; Am. Ord., passed 5-20-87; Am.
Ord., passed 7-11- 88; Am. Ord., passed 7-1-01; Am. Ord., passed 6-8-09; Am.
Ord. passed 8-8-16)
§ 51.33 RESPONSIBILITY FOR WATER BILLS.
   The person receiving water shall be primarily responsible for the payment of
monthly user charges. The owner of the property shall be secondarily
responsible. In either case, if a monthly user charge becomes delinquent and is
not paid in accordance with the provisions of these regulations, water service
is to be discontinued and may not be resumed except in accordance with the
provisions of these regulations. When water shall be supplied to more than one
party through a single tap, the bill for the whole supply furnished through
such tap shall be made to the owner of the property.
(Ord., passed 1-13-79; Am. Ord., passed 4-14-86; Am. Ord., passed 5-20-87; Am.
Ord., passed 7-11- 88)
§ 51.34 REQUESTED DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   Request for discontinuance of water service must be received by the town at
least three days prior to requested cut-off. All water charges must be paid
including water used to the time of cut-off. No liability will be assumed by
the town for damage to customer's property resulting from discontinuance of
service.
(Ord., passed 1-13-79; Am. Ord., passed 4-14-86; Am. Ord., passed 5-20-87; Am.
Ord., passed 7-11- 88)
§ 51.35 METER TESTING.
   When a customer has complaints about water bills being too high, the meter
can be tested. If meter if found to be incorrect, customer will have the bill
adjusted to the past three-month average. If the meter is found to be correct,
customer will pay a $50 charge to be added to the water bill.
(Ord., passed 9-14-87; Am. Ord., passed 7-1-01)
§ 51.36 WATER/SEWER FEES.
   The schedule of charges provided in the town’s annual adopted budget
ordinance will apply to water/sewer fees, including but not limited to, the
reconnect fee, the late fee. the water/sewer deposit, the water/sewer setup
fee, meter tampering fee and the meter test charge. These charges will remain
in effect until changed by the Town Council.
(Ord., passed 7-1-01; Am. Ord. passed 8-8-16)
Cross reference:
   Water/sewer fees also listed in §
50.44
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
§ 51.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP. A physical separation between the free-flowing discharge end of a
potable water supply pipeline and an open or non-pressure receiving vessel. An
approved air gap shall be at least double the diameter of the supply pipe
measured vertically above the overflow rim of the vessel in no case less than
one inch (2.54 cm).
   APPROVED CHECK VALVE. A check valve that is drip-tight in the normal
direction of flow when the inlet pressure is at least one psi and the outlet
pressure is zero. The check valve shall permit no leakage in a direction
reversed to the normal flow. The closure element (e.g. clapper, poppet or other
design) shall be internally loaded to promote rapid and positive closure. An
approved check valve is only one component of an approved backflow prevention
assembly - i.e., pressure vacuum breaker, double-check valve assembly, double-
check detector assembly, reduced pressure principle assembly or reduced
pressure detector assembly.
   ATMOSPHERIC TYPE VACUUM BREAKER. The term ATMOSPHERIC TYPE VACUUM BREAKER
(also known as the “non-pressure type vacuum breaker”) shall mean a device
containing a float-check, a check seat and an air inlet port. The flow of water
into the body causes the float to close the air inlet port. When the flow of
water stops, the float falls and forms a check valve against back-siphonage and
at the same time opens the air inlet port to allow air to enter and satisfy the
vacuum breaker is designed to protect a non-health hazard (isolation protection
only) under a back-siphonage condition only.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply on or available to the premises
other than the purveyor’s approved public water supply will be considered as an
auxiliary water supply. These supplies may be contaminated, polluted or may be
objectionable and constitute an unacceptable water source over which the water
purveyor does not have sanitary control.
   BACKFLOW. The undesirable reversal of flow of water or mixtures of water and
other liquids, gasses or other substances into the distribution pipes of the
potable supply of water from any source or sources.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY. An assembly used to prevent backflow into a
consumer or public potable water system. The type of assembly used should be
based on the degree of hazard either existing or potential (as defined herein).
The types are:
      (1)   Double-Check Valve Assembly (DCVA);
      (2)   Double-Check Detector Assembly (Fire System) (DCDA);
      (3)   Pressure Vacuum Breaker (PVB);
      (4)   Reduced Pressure Principle Assembly (RP); and
      (5)   Reduced Pressure Principle-Detector Assembly (Fire System) (RPDA).
   BACKPRESSURE. Any elevation of pressure in the downstream piping system (by
pump, elevation of piping or steam and/or air pressure) above the supply
pressure at the point of consideration which would cause, or tend to cause, a
reversal of the normal direction of flow.
   BACKSIPHONAGE.  A form of backflow due to a reduction in system pressure
which causes a sub atmospheric pressure to exist at a site in the water system.
   CERTIFIED BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY TESTER. A person who has proven his
or her competency to the satisfaction of the town. Each person who is certified
to make competent tests, or to repair, overhaul and make reports on backflow
prevention assemblies shall be knowledgeable of applicable laws, rules and
regulations, shall be a licensed plumber or have at least two years experience
under and be employed by a North Carolina licensed plumber or plumber
contractor, or have equivalent qualifications acceptable to the town, and must
hold a certificate of completion from an approved training program in the
testing and repair of backflow prevention assemblies.
   CONSUMER. Any person, firm or corporation using or receiving water from the
town.
   CONSUMER'S POTABLE WATER SYSTEM. That portion of the privately owned potable
water system lying between the point of delivery and point of use and/or
isolation protection. This system will include all pipes, conduits, tanks,
receptacles, fixtures, equipment and appurtenances used to produce, covey,
store or use potable water.
   CONSUMER'S WATER SYSTEM. The term CONSUMER WATER SYSTEM shall include a
water system commencing at the point of delivery and continuing throughout the
consumer’s plumbing system located on the consumer’s premises, whether supplied
by public potable water or an auxiliary water supply. The systems may be either
a potable water system or an industrial piping system.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water which creates a
potential or actual hazard to the public health through the introduction of
hazardous or toxic substances or waterborne health hazards in the form of
physical or chemical contaminants or biological organisms and pathogens.
   CONTAINMENT. Preventing the impairment of the public potable water supply by
installing an approved backflow prevention assembly at the service connection.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any unprotected actual or potential connection or
structural arrangement between a public or a consumer’s water system and any
other source or system through which it is possible to introduce any
contamination or pollution, other than the intended potable water with which
the system is supplied. Bypass arrangements, jumper connections, removable
sections, swivel or changeover devices, and other temporary or permanent
devices through which or because of which backflow can or may occur are
considered to be CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. The term DEGREE OF HAZARD shall be derived from the
evaluation of conditions within a system which can be classified as either a
“pollutional” (non-health) or a contamination (health) hazard.
   DOUBLE-CHECK-DETECTOR ASSEMBLY. A specially designed assembly composed of a
line-size approved double-check valve assembly with a specific bypass water
meter and meter-sized approved double-check valve assembly. The meter with a
radio read register shall register (in U.S. gallons) accurately for only very
low rates of flow and shall show a registration for all rates of flow. This
assembly shall only be used to protect against a non-health hazard (i.e.
pollutant). Device must be approved by Foundation for Cross-Connection Control
and Hydraulic Research.
   DOUBLE-CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of two independently
acting, approved check valves, including tightly closing shut-off valves
attached at each end of the assembly and fitted with properly located test
cocks. This assembly shall only be used to protect against a non-health hazard
(i.e. pollutant). The device must be approved by the Foundation for Cross-
Connection Control and Hydraulic Research.
   HEALTH AGENCY. The North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural
Resources.
   HEALTH HAZARD. An actual or potential threat of contamination of a physical,
chemical, biological, pathogen or toxic nature to the public or consumer’s
potable water system to such a degree or intensity that there would be a danger
to health. Examples of waterborne health hazards include, but are not limited
to:
      (1)   Physical - radioisotopes/radionuclides;
      (2)   Chemical - lead, mercury and other heavy metal, organic compounds,
other toxins and hazardous substances; and
      (3)   Biological - microorganisms and pathogens like Cryptosporidium,
typhoid, cholera and E. coli.
   IMMINENT HAZARD. A situation which is likely to cause an immediate threat to
human life, an immediate threat of a serious adverse health effect or a serious
risk of irreparable damage to the environment if no immediate action is taken.
   INDUSTRIAL FLUIDS. Any fluid or solution which may be chemically,
biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration
such as would constitute a health or non-health hazard if introduced into a
public or consumer potable water system. Such fluids may include, but are not
limited to, process waters, chemicals in fluid form, acids and alkalis, oils,
gases and the like.
   INDUSTRIAL PIPING SYSTEM. A system used by the consumer for transmission,
conveyance or storage of any fluid, solid or gaseous substance other than an
approved water supply. Such a system would include all pipes, conduits, tanks
receptacles, fixtures, equipment and appurtenances used to produce, convey or
store substances which are or may be polluted or contaminated.
   ISOLATION. The act of confining a localized hazard within a consumer’s water
system by installing approved backflow prevention assemblies. Disclaimer: the
town may make recommendations upon facility inspection as to usage of isolation
devices/assemblies, but does not assume or have responsibility whatsoever for
such installations.
   NON-HEALTH HAZARD. An actual or potential to the quality of the public or
the consumer’s potable water system. A NON-HEALTH HAZARD is one that, if
introduced into the public water supply system, could be a nuisance to water
customers but would not adversely affect human health.
   POINT OF DELIVERY. Shall generally be at the back side of the meter,
adjacent to the public street where the town water distribution mains are
located. The consumer shall be responsible for all water piping and control
devices located on the consumer’s side of the point of delivery.
   POLLUTION. An impairment of the quality of the water to a degree which does
not create an actual hazard to the public health but which does adversely and
unreasonably affect the aesthetic qualities of such waters for domestic use.
   POLLUTIONAL HAZARD. An actual or potential threat to the quality or the
potability of the public or the consumer’s potable water system but which not
constitute a health or a system hazard, as defined. The maximum degree or
intensity of pollution to which the potable water system could be degraded
under this definition would cause a nuisance or be aesthetically objectionable
or could cause minor damage to the system or its appurtenances.
   POTABLE WATER. Water from any source which has been approved for human
consumption by the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural
Resources (NCDENR).
   PRESSURE TYPE VACUUM BREAKER. An assembly containing an independently
operating internally loaded check valve and an independently operating loaded
air inlet valve located on the discharge side of the check valve. The approved
assembly is to be equipped with properly located test cocks and tightly closing
shut-off valves attached at each end of the assembly. This assembly is designed
to protect against a health hazard (i.e., contaminant) under a backsiphonage
condition only.
   PUBLIC POTABLE WATER SYSTEM.  Any publicly or privately owned water system
operated as a public utility, under a current NCDENR permit, to supply water
for public consumption or use. This system will include all sources, facilities
and appurtenances between the source and the point of delivery such as valves,
pumps, pipes, conduits, tanks, receptacles, fixtures, equipment and
appurtenances used to produce, convey, treat or store potable water for public
consumption or use.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE-DETECTOR ASSEMBLY. A specially designed assembly
composed of a line- sized approved reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention assembly with a specific bypass water meter and a meter-sized
approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly. The meter
with a radio read register shall register (in U.S. gallons) accurately for only
very low rates of flow and shall show a registration for all rates of flow.
This assembly shall be used to protect against the health hazard (i.e.,
contaminant). The device must be approved by the Foundation for Cross-
Connection and Hydraulic Research.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE PREVENTION ASSEMBLY. An assembly containing
within its structure a minimum of two independently acting, approved check
valves, together with a hydraulically operating, mechanically independent,
pressure differential relief valve located between the check valves and at the
same time below the first check valve. The first check valve reduces the supply
pressure to a predetermined amount so that during normal flow and at cessation
of normal flow, the pressure between the checks shall be less than the supply
pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the pressure differential
relief valve, by discharge to atmosphere, shall operate to maintain the
pressure between the check less than the supply pressure. The approved unit
shall include tightly closing shutoff valves located at each end of the
assembly and each assembly shall be fitted with properly located test cocks.
The assembly is designed to protect against a health hazard (i.e.,
contaminant). The device must be approved by the Foundation for Cross-
Connection Control and Hydraulic Research.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service connection from the public
potable water system, i.e., where the town loses jurisdiction and control over
the water at its point of delivery to the consumer’s water system.
   UNAPPROVED WATER SUPPLY. A water supply which has not been approved for
human consumption by the NCDENR.
   USED WATER. Any water supplied by the water purveyor from the public water
system to a consumer’s water system after it has passed through the point of
delivery and no longer under the control of the water purveyor.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The consumer or operator of a public potable water system
providing an approved water supply to the public.
(Ord., passed 2-9-09)
§ 51.51 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this cross-connection control subchapter is:
   (A)   To protect the public potable water supply of the town from the
possibility of contamination or pollution, due to backsiphonage or back
pressure, by isolation within the consumer’s private water system such
contaminants or pollutants, which could backflow into the public water system;
and
   (B)   To define the authority of the town as the water purveyor entitled to
eliminating all cross-connections, new or existing, within the town’s Water
System.
(Ord., passed 2-9-09)
§ 51.52 RESPONSIBILITY OF TOWN AND CUSTOMER.
   (A)   Town’s responsibility.
      (1)   Harrisburg will be primarily responsible for preventing any
contamination or pollution of the Harrisburg Water System. This responsibility
begins at the point of origin of the public water supply and includes all of
the public water distribution system, and ends at the service connection
according to the Safe Drinking Water Act. The town shall exercise vigilance to
ensure that the consumer/customer has taken the proper steps to protect the
public potable water system.
      (2)   When it has been determined that a backflow protection assembly is
required for the prevention of contamination of the Harrisburg Water System,
the town shall notify the owner, in writing, of any such building or premises
to correct within a time set by this section.
      (3)   After an inspection of the private water system, the town will
select an approved backflow prevention assembly required for containment
control to be installed and designate an appropriate location for the
installation.
      (4)   Prior to the installation of any backflow prevention assembly by an
approved installer, the owner of the private water system must be notified that
the installation of a backflow prevention assembly may create a closed system
and as a result thermal expansion may occur. Under such circumstance, the
customer must understand and assume all liability and responsibilities for that
phenomenon.
   (B)   Customer’s responsibility. The customer has the responsibility of
preventing contaminants and pollutants from entering the customer’s private
water system or the public water system operated by the town. The customer, at
his or her own expense, shall install, operate and maintain all backflow
prevention assemblies specified within this section.
(Ord., passed 2-9-09)
§ 51.53 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Any authorized representative of the town shall have the right to
enter any building, structure or premises during normal business hours to
perform any duty imposed upon him or her by this section and with in accordance
to Appendix D104.2.1 of the State Plumbing Code. Those duties may include
sampling and testing of the water, or inspection and observation of all piping
systems connected to the public water supply. Refusal to allow these
representatives to enter for these purposes will result in the disconnection of
water service.
   (B)   On request, the consumer shall furnish to the town any pertinent
information regarding the water supply system on such property where cross-
connection and backflow are deemed possible. (State Plumbing Code Appendix
D104.2.3)
(Ord., passed 2-9-09) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.54 CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No water service connection to any private exterior or interior water
system shall be installed or maintained by the town unless the water supply is
protected as required by this section and other applicable laws.
   (B)   Service of water to any premises shall be discontinued by the town if
a backflow assembly, required by this section, is not installed, tested and
maintained or if a backflow assembly has been removed, bypassed or if an
unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises. Service will be restored
after all such conditions or defects are corrected.
      (1)   No customer shall allow an unprotected cross-connection to be made
or to remain involving the customer’s exterior or interior private water
system.
      (2)   No connection shall be made to an unapproved auxiliary water supply
unless the public water supply is protected against backflow by an approved
backflow assembly, appropriate to the degree of hazard.
      (3)   No customer shall fail to maintain, in good operating condition,
any backflow prevention assembly, which is part of the customer's private water
system and is required by this section.
      (4)   No customer shall fail to submit to the town any record, which is
required by this section. A violation of this section is punishable as a
misdemeanor.
(Ord., passed 2-9-09; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.55 INSTALLATION AND TESTING OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to require that all water flowing from
the Harrisburg Water System must flow through an approved backflow prevention
assembly and that each backflow prevention assembly be properly located,
installed, maintained and tested so that the backflow prevention assembly is
effective in protecting the Harrisburg Water System from any possible
contamination or pollution.
   (B)   The installation or replacement of a backflow prevention assembly for
domestic water use shall only be performed by a licensed plumber or utility
contractor. The installation of a backflow prevention assembly on a dedicated
fire sprinkler service shall be performed by a licensed fire sprinkler or
utility contractor. Repairs to a backflow prevention assembly on a dedicated
fire sprinkler system may only be performed by a fire sprinkler contractor. All
backflow prevention assemblies may be tested by a certified backflow
technician.
   (C)   All new construction plans and specifications which will directly
affect the town, and/or are required by the State Building Code, the State
Division of Environmental Health (N.C. DENR), and the town or county planning
and zoning offices, shall be made available to the town Backflow Administrator
for review, approval and to determine the degree of hazard.
   (D)   All existing facilities zoned commercial or industrial and having
existing water services with the town and requesting certificate of occupancy
from the town or county planning and zoning offices, shall be inspected for
compliance of backflow and cross-connection control prevention. Any facility
not having backflow or changing the degree of hazard shall be brought into
compliance before the Backflow Administrator may release certificate of
compliance.
   (E)   All backflow prevention assemblies must be installed and maintained on
the customer’s premises as part of the customer's private water system at or
near the service connection and before the service line is connected to any
other pipes except as authorized by the town.
   (F)   If it has been determined that a backflow prevention assembly cannot
be installed at the meter service, due to zoning or DOT right-of-way, an
approved backflow assembly must be installed on every branch of plumbing
installed between the service meter and the service backflow assembly.
   (G)   Any branch of plumbing installed on the private water system that may
be of a greater hazard than the supply line, (example: chemical induced
irrigation or fire system, pump system and the like) shall be protected with a
reduced pressure assembly.
   (H)   All backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed in accordance
with the town “Backflow Prevention and Cross-Connection Control Manual” ,
(which is incorporated herein by reference as if written below), and/or the
manufacturer’s instructions, whichever is most restrictive.
   (I)   All double check valve assemblies, two-inches or larger, must be
installed in a watertight drainable pit wherever below ground installation is
necessary in accordance with detailed specifications provided in the “Backflow
Prevention and Cross-Connection Manual”. If a drain cannot be provided, the
assembly must be installed above the ground. Double check valve assemblies may
be installed in a vertical position with prior approval from the Backflow
Administrator, provided that the flow of water is in an upward direction.
   (J)   Reduce pressure assemblies must be installed in a horizontal position
and in a location in which no portion of the assembly can become submerged in
any substance under any circumstances. Pit installations are prohibited.
   (K)   Each backflow prevention assembly that is required must function
properly at the time of installment. Each customer will be required to test,
maintain and repair each assembly required which is a part of the customer’s
private water system. A certified backflow prevention technician may only
conduct such test. Testing shall be done immediately following installation of
any backflow prevention assembly and on an annual or semi- annual basis
depending on the degree of hazard.
   (L)   If repair is found necessary on an assembly, it must be retested
following any repair. A complete duplicate copy of any testing and/or repair
shall be sent to the town within 30 days of test or repair. Each customer must
maintain a complete copy of tests or repairs for no less than five years. All
test and repair records must be maintained on forms approved by the town.
   (M)   All rubber components must be replaced every five years or as often as
needed.
   (N)    Any customer installing a reduced pressure (RP) or double check valve
assembly (DCVA) must provide the following information to the Backflow
Administrator within ten days after installation:
      (1)   Service address where assembly is located;
      (2)   Owner;
      (3)   Description of assembly's location;
      (4)   Date of installation;
      (5)   Type of assembly;
      (6)   Manufacturer;
      (7)   Model number;
      (8)   Serial number; and
      (9)   Test results/report.
   (O)   The town must approve each backflow assembly required by this section.
Unapproved backflow assembly must be replaced, within a time set by the town,
with an approved backflow assembly. For a list of approved backflow assemblies,
reference the town “Backflow Prevention and Cross-Connection Control Manual”.
If it has been determined that a customer must install a backflow prevention
assembly, the town will provide the customer with a letter of notification. The
following time periods shall be set forth for the installation of the specified
assemblies:
      (1)   Health hazard - 60 days; and
      (2)   Non-health hazards - 90 days.
   (P)   If an imminent hazard or unreasonable threat of contamination or
pollution to the Harrisburg Water System is detected, the town may require the
installation of the backflow assembly immediately or within a shorter time
period than specified in this section.
   (Q)   If a customer does not wish for water service to be interrupted when a
backflow assembly is tested, repaired or replaced, a parallel installation must
be made using an approved assembly of the same degree of hazard. The parallel
line may be of the same size or smaller. A violation of this section is
punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord., passed 2-9-09; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.56 DEGREE OF HAZARDS.
   (A)   No service shall be completed until the town has been provided
information or has surveyed the private water system to determine the degree of
hazard and make a determination of a backflow prevention assembly to be
installed to protect the public water supply.
   (B)   Any customers making any modification to their private exterior or
interior water configuration and/or changing the usage of the exterior or
interior water system, which may change the degree of hazard, shall notify the
town before any modification is made. If the town determines that such
modification required a different backflow prevention assembly, that assembly
must be installed before the modification is made or the usage is changed.
   (C)   The following types of facilities or services have been identified by
the town as having a potential for backflow or non-potable water into the
public water system. Therefore, an approved backflow prevention assembly will
be required on all such services according to the degree of hazard present.
Other types of facilities or services not listed in this section may also be
required to install approved backflow prevention assembly if determined
necessary by the town. As a minimum requirement, all commercial services will
be required to install double check valve assembly unless otherwise listed as
follows:
      (1)   RP = Reduced pressure assembly;
      (2)   DCVA = Double check valve assembly;
      (3)   DCDA = Double check detector assembly;
      (4)   RPDA = Reduced pressure detector assembly;
      (5)   AG = Air gap;
      (6)   Automotive service stations, dealerships and the like:
         (a)   No health hazard: DCVA; and
         (b)   Health hazard: RP.
      (7)   Automotive plants: RP;
      (8)   Auxiliary water system:
         (a)   Approved public/private water supply: DCVA;
         (b)   Unapproved public/private water supply: AG; and
         (c)   Used water and industrial fluids: RP.
      (9)   Bakeries:
         (a)   No health hazard: DCVA; and
         (b)   Health hazard: RP.
      (10)   Beauty shops/barber shops:
         (a)   No health hazard: DCVA; and
         (b)   Health hazard: RP.
      (11)   Beverage bottling plants: RP;
      (12)   Breweries: RP;
      (13)   Buildings - hotels, apartment house, public and private building
or other structures having unprotected cross-connection:
         (a)   (Under five stories) no health hazard: DCVA;
         (b)   (Under five stories) health hazard: RP; and
         (c)   (Over five stories) all: RP.
      (14)   Canneries, packing house and rendering plants: RP;
      (15)   Chemical plants - manufacturing, processing, compounding or
treatment: RP;
      (16)   Chemically contaminated water system: RP;
      (17)   Commercial car - wash facilities: RP;
      (18)   Commercial greenhouses: RP;
      (19)   Concrete/asphalt plants: RP;
      (20)   Dairies and cold storage plants: RP;
      (21)   Dye works: RP;
      (22)   Film laboratories: RP;
      (23)   Fire system:
         (a)   No health hazard: DCVA; and
         (b)   Health hazard (booster pumps, foams, anti-freeze solution and
the like): RPDA.
      (24)   Hospitals, medical building, sanitarium, morgues, mortuaries,
autopsy facilities, nursing and convalescent homes, medical clinics and
veterinary hospitals: RP;
      (25)   Individual commercial sales establishment (department stores):
         (a)   No health hazard: DCVA; and
         (b)   Health hazard: RP.
      (26)    Industrial facilities:
         (a)   No health hazard: DCVA; and
         (b)   Health hazard: RP.
      (27)   Laundries:
         (a)   No health hazard: DCVA; and
         (b)   Health hazard (i.e. dry cleaner): RP.
      (28)   Lawn irrigation system: health hazard: RP;
      (29)   Mall or strip malls (frequent tenant change and photo labs and the
like): health hazard: RP;
      (30)   Metal manufacturing, cleaning, processing and fabricating plants:
RP;
      (31)   Mobile home parks:
         (a)   No health hazard: DCVA; and
         (b)   Health hazard: RP.
      (32)   Oil and gas production, storage or transmission properties: RP;
      (33)   Paper and paper products plants: RP;
      (34)   Pest control (exterminating and fumigating): RP;
      (35)   Plating plants: RP;
      (36)   Power plants: RP;
      (37)   Public swimming pools: RP;
      (38)   Radioactive materials or substances - plants or facilities
handing: RP;
      (39)   Restaurants:
         (a)   No health hazard: DCVA; and
         (b)   Health hazard: RP.
      (40)   Restricted, classified or other closed facilities: RP;
      (41)   Rubber plants (natural or synthetic): RP;
      (42)   Sand and gravel plants: RP;
      (43)   Schools and colleges: RP;
      (44)   Sewage and storm drain facilities: RP;
      (45)   Waterfront facilities and industries: RP; and
      (46)   All assemblies and installations shall be subject to inspection
and approval by the town.
   (D)   Filling of tanks/tankers or any other container from a town fire
hydrant is strictly prohibited unless it has been equipped with the proper
meter and backflow protection, at which the town will issue a permit for that
tank/tanker or container. Any unauthorized connection to a fire hydrant is
considered an illegal cross-connection to the town water system and will be
subject to fines. All tanks/tankers shall be inspected by the Operator in
Responsible Charge (ORC) of Backflow and Cross-Connection Prevention.
   (E)   If a Cross-Connection Control Inspector is unable to survey any
portion of a private exterior or interior water system to determine the degree
of hazard, due to confidential activities, a reduced pressure assembly will be
required. A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord., passed 2-9-09; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.57 LOW HAZARD.
   (A)   All single-family residential homes will be considered a low hazard
and shall have a minimum of a dual check valve device installed at the meter
service. Dual check valves shall not be in-line tested.
   (B)   If no other backflow prevention assembly is specified, a double check
valve assembly must be installed on all private water systems.
(Ord., passed 2-9-09)
§ 51.58 IMMINENT HAZARD.
   (A)   If it has been determined that a customer’s private water system has
an imminent hazard, such customer must install a backflow prevention assembly
specified by the town and this section. This assembly must be installed within
24 hours of notification from the town. If the customer fails to install the
specified assembly within the allowed time limit, water service to the
customer’s private water system will be terminated and may be subject to
specified civil penalties. If the town is unable to notify the customer in 24
hours of determining an imminent hazard exists, the town may terminate water
service until the specified assembly is installed. These actions may be carried
out under the Safe Drinking Water Act (Title XIV, Section 1431) and the State
Plumbing Code (Appendix D104.2.6).
   (B)   Only a backflow prevention assembly offering a greater degree of
protection may be installed in place of a specified assembly required by this
section.
(Ord., passed 2-9-09)
§ 51.59 NOTICE OF CONTAMINATION OR POLLUTION.
   (A)   If the customer’s private exterior or interior water system becomes
contaminated or polluted, the customer shall notify the town immediately.
   (B)   If a customer has reason to believe that a backflow incident has
occurred between the customer’s private exterior or interior water system and
the town’s water system, the customer shall immediately notify the town in
order that appropriate measures may be taken to isolate and remove the
contamination or pollution.
(Ord., passed 2-9-09)
§ 51.60 FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM.
   (A)   All connections for fire protection with the public water system two
inches and smaller shall be protected with an approved double check valve
assembly as a minimum requirement. All fire systems using toxic additives or
booster pumps shall be protected by an approved reduced pressure principle
assembly at the main service connection.
   (B)   All connections for fire protection systems connected with the public
water system greater than two inches shall be protected with an approved
double-check detector assembly as minimum requirement. All fire protection
systems using toxic or hazardous additives or booster pumps shall be protected
by an approved reduced pressure principle detector assembly at the main service
connection.
   (C)   All existing backflow prevention assemblies two and one-half inches
and larger installed on fire protection systems that were initially approved by
the town shall be allowed to remain on the premises, as long as they are being
properly maintained, tested and repaired as required by this subchapter.
However, if the existing assembly must be replaced (once it can no longer be
repaired), or in the event of proven water theft through an un-metered source,
the consumer shall be required to install an approved double-check detector
assembly or reduced pressure principle detector assembly as required by this
provision.
(Ord., passed 2-9-09)
§ 51.61 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The consumer or person in charge of any installation found not to be
in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter shall be notified in
writing with regard to the corrective action(s) to be taken.
   (B)   Such notice must explain the violation and give the time within which
the violation must be corrected. The time period set to correct a violation
shall not exceed 30-days after receiving notice. If the violation has been
determined by the town to be an imminent hazard, the consumer shall be required
to correct the violation immediately.
   (C)   In the event a consumer is found in violation of this subchapter and
fails to correct the violation in a timely manner or to pay any civil penalty
or expense assessed under this section, water service may be terminated and
shall be reestablished when the violation is corrected and any applicable civil
penalties are paid.
   (D)   The violation of any section of this subchapter may be punished by a
civil penalty listed as follows.
      (1)   Unprotected cross-connection involving a private water system which
creates an imminent hazard - $1,000 per day not to exceed $10,000.
      (2)   Unprotected cross-connection involving a private water system is of
a moderate or high hazard -$500 per day not to exceed $5,000.
      (3)   If in the judgment of the town, any consumer, manager, supervisor
or person in charge of any installation is found to be in non- compliance by
the Operator in Responsible Charge (ORC) with the provisions of this subchapter
and/or neglects their responsibility to correct a violation, water service may
be discontinued until compliance is achieved.
      (4)   Failure of a consumer or certified tester to submit any record
required by this subchapter, or the submission of falsified reports/records may
result in a civil penalty of up to $500 per violation. If a certified backflow
prevention assembly tester submits falsified records, the town shall
permanently revoke that tester.
      (5)   Failure to test or maintain backflow prevention assemblies as
required - $200 per day.
      (6)   Enforcement of this program shall be administered by the Operator
in Responsible Charge (ORC) of Cross-Connection and Backflow Prevention.
(Ord., passed 2-9-09)
MANDATORY WATER CONSERVATION
§ 51.70 WATER EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Definition.
      WATER EMERGENCY shall be defined as any condition or situation which
threatens the safety or supply of either treated or potable water within the
water supply, treatment and distribution systems of the town or within the
systems of the municipal, commercial and industrial customers. Determination of
whether specific situations are considered to be water emergencies shall be
made by the Mayor or his designee after consultation with the utility
department head. WATER EMERGENCY situations shall include, but not be limited
to, drought or periods of insufficient raw water supply, and fires of a
magnitude such that system integrity is threatened.
   (B)   Declaration of water emergency. The Mayor, or his or her, designee
after consultation with appropriate town staff, shall be authorized to declare
that a water emergency exists. Depending on the severity of the emergency;
Voluntary (Level I), Mandatory (Level II, III), or Mandatory (Level IV) staged
water use restrictions as described in the following subsection(s) shall be
imposed upon customers.
   (C)   Staged water use restrictions. During a declared Level I Water
Emergency, the following voluntary water conservation practices shall be
encouraged for the public water system served by the town.
      (1)   Watering of lawns, ornamental plants and gardens shall be limited
to that necessary for plant survival only.
      (2)   Planting of new ornamental plants and seeding of lawns should be
deferred until the water emergency situation no longer exists.
      (3)   Household water should be reused to the greatest possible extent
for watering.
      (4)   Use of water for washing-down of outside areas such as driveways or
parking lots should be curtailed.
      (5)   Faucets should not be left running while shaving, brushing teeth,
or washing dishes.
      (6)   The use of clothes washers and dishwashers should be limited, if
possible, and these units should be operated with full loads when used.
      (7)   Washing of cars or other vehicles should be curtailed to Saturdays
or Sundays. Hoses should not be left running while washing vehicles.
      (8)   The use of flow restrictions and other water saving devices is
encouraged.
      (9)   Showers should be used for bathing and showers should be limited to
four minutes or less.
      (10)   Filling of pools shall be deferred or limited to hours between 9:
00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
      (11)   Any practice listed above may be modified or additional practices
added at the discretion of the Town Council.
   (D)   Level II Water Emergency.  During a Declared Level II Water Emergency,
the following mandatory water use restrictions shall be in effect for the
public water system served by the town.
      (1)   All voluntary practices listed above shall be mandatory.
      (2)   Watering and irrigation of lawns, ornamental plants and gardens
shall not be done except by handheld container (bucket, jug, and the like).
      (3)   Planting of new ornamental plants or seeding of lawns shall be
deferred until the water emergency no longer exists.
      (4)   Use of water for washing-down of outside areas is prohibited.
      (5)   Residential washing of cars and other vehicles shall be prohibited
except on Saturday and Sunday. Commercial washing facilities including those
providing handheld washing nozzles may continue normal operation. However, the
facility owner/operator shall ensure that water is not wasted.
      (6)   Restaurants and other food-serving establishments shall serve water
to patrons only at the request of the patron(s).
      (7)   Commercial, industrial and construction operations shall eliminate
all possible waste of water.
      (8)   Newly constructed or drained pools shall be filled by permit only.
Fill permits shall be issued by the Public Works Director and issuance of the
permits may be curtailed depending on the severity of the situation.
      (9)   Any practice listed above may be modified or additional practices
added at the discretion of the Director of the Water Resources Department.
   (E)   Level III Water Emergency.  During a declared Level III Water
Emergency, the following mandatory water use restrictions shall be in effect
for the public water system served by the town.
      (1)   Watering and irrigation of lawns, gardens, and other plants are
prohibited.
      (2)   Washing of cars, vehicles and equipment is prohibited.
      (3)   Restaurants and other food serving establishments shall utilize
single serving utensils and plates, and serve water at the patron’s request.
      (4)   Recreational use of potable water including filling of pools is
prohibited.
      (5)   Large scale commercial and industrial water customers and
construction activities utilizing 5,000 or more gallons of water per day shall
achieve mandatory reductions in daily water usage of 25%, 50% or 75% through
whatever means are available. The target reduction percentage shall be
determined by the severity of the water emergency, and shall be publicly
announced as part of the emergency declaration. The Director of Public Works
shall determine compliance with the daily usage- reduction targets. Variances
to this restriction may be granted to designated public health facilities
including, but not limited to, hospitals and nursing homes.
      (6)   Drinking water taps or hydrant permits shall be issued or revoked
at the discretion of the town staff.
      (7)   Any practice listed above may be modified or additional practices
added at the discretion of the town.
   (F)   Level IV Water Emergency.  During a declared Level IV Water Emergency,
the following mandatory water use restrictions shall be in effect for the
public water system served by the town.
      (1)   All use of water for purposes other than maintenance of public
safety is prohibited.
      (2)   Where the Harrisburg system is not functional, residential water
use shall not exceed 300 gallons per day at each metered location.
      (3)   Where the Harrisburg system is not functional, National Guard and
Emergency Service vehicles shall be utilized to distribute water for household
use at prearranged locations within the affected area. Usage by individuals
shall be limited to those amounts necessary to sustain life through drinking,
food preparation and personal hygiene.
      (4)   The compliance plan for industries during Level IV remains the same
as Level II or as directed by the State of North Carolina public health
officials. Such plans shall be submitted to the town Public Works Department
within 90 calendar days from the adoption of this section. Plans shall be
updated at least every five years.
      (5)   Any practice listed above may be modified or additional practices
added at the discretion of the Town Council.
   (G)   Non-compliance with water emergency management regulations.
      (1)   Penalties. Any person, firm or corporation violating the mandatory
provisions of this section shall be issued a civil citation and a fine not to
exceed $100 for residential customers and $500 for commercial industrial users.
Each occurrence of a violation of this ordinance shall be considered a separate
violation.
      (2)   Discontinuance of service. Pursuant to the provisions of G.S. §
162A-88 and the town water system ordinance, water service may be temporarily
discontinued for willful disregard of this section. All applicable penalties
may be applied in the event of service suspensions. In the event of continued
gross noncompliance with this ordinance, removal of the meter and service will
be deemed proper and service will be discontinued. Tap fees and deposits will
be forfeited.
      (3)   Municipal customers, water corporations or company compliance.
Municipalities, water corporations or companies purchasing water from the City
of Concord shall adopt and enforce this entire section as a condition of
continuing existing water sales agreements, upon declaration of a water
emergency, the municipalities and companies shall enforce the appropriate water
use restrictions for the level of declared emergency. Water service to the
municipalities and companies shall be terminated for not enforcing the
provisions of this section.
(Ord. passed 12-28-98; Am. Ord. passed 10-11-99)
§ 51.71 SERVICE CONNECTION VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   (A)   The direct or indirect use of water from the Town of Harrisburg water
supply system in violation of these rules and regulations is hereby prohibited.
Any water customer of the Town of Harrisburg water supply system who violates
these rules and regulations or permits the violations thereof shall be subject
to a penalty for each violation of these rules and regulations according to the
following schedule of penalties:
 
Size of Service Connection Penalty
¾ inch                    $30
1-inch                     $40
1½-inch                   $50
2-inch                     $60
3-inch                     $75
4-inch and/or larger       $100
 
   (B)   Each penalty assessed against a water customer under these rules and
regulations shall be added to said customer's water bill and shall be paid in
the same manner as set forth in this code concerning the payment of the water
bill. Failure to pay all or any portion of a water bill, including any penalty
assessed under these rules and regulations, in a timely manner, may result in
the termination of water service from the Town of Harrisburg.
   (C)   Each day that a violation of these rules and regulations occur shall
be considered to be a separate violation.
   (D)   The penalties imposed herein are established pursuant to the authority
of G.S. § 160A-314.
(Ord. passed 12-28-98)
§ 51.72 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Mayor shall be responsible for enforcing any restrictions imposed
pursuant to these rules and regulations.
(Ord. passed 12-28-98)
§ 51.73 CONSTRUCTION OF TERMS.
   Whenever the terms “Mayor” or “Public Works Director” are used in the rules
and regulations, these terms shall be constructed to include the designee of
the Mayor of Harrisburg or Public Works Director.
(Ord. passed 12-28-98)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   In addition to any other remedies cited in this chapter for the
enforcement of the provisions officials. These citations shall be in the form
of a civil penalty. The town may recover this penalty in a civil action in the
nature of a debt if the offender does not of this chapter, the regulations and
standards contained in this chapter may be enforced through the issuance of
citations by the appropriate town pay the penalty within 72 hours after being
cited for a violation. In addition, failure to pay the civil penalty within 72
hours may subject the violator to criminal charges, in accordance with G.S. §
14-4 and shall be considered a misdemeanor with a fine in an amount not to
exceed $500 for each offense. The following civil penalties are established for
violations under this section:
         (a)   Warning citations: correct violation within ten days.
         (b)   First citation, $25.
         (c)   Second citation, for same offense, $100.
         (d)   Third and subsequent citation for same offense, $200.
      (2)   These civil penalties are in addition to any other penalties which
may be imposed by a court for violation of the provisions of this code of
ordinances.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing enforcement provisions, this chapter may
be enforced by any remedy provided in G.S. § 160.175 including, but not limited
to, all appropriate equitable remedies issued from a court of complete
jurisdiction as provided in G.S. § 160A-175(e). This section specifically
provides that each day's continuing violation shall be a separate and distinct
offense.
(Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22)
CHAPTER 52: GARBAGE COLLECTION
Section
   
52.01   Services provided by town
   
52.02   Services not provided by town
   
52.03   Regulation of containers and bins
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 SERVICES PROVIDED BY TOWN.
   (A)   The town will collect:
      (1)   Residential yard waste. Tree limbs and branches no more than six
feet in length and 12 inches in diameter stacked loosely with cut ends towards
the street, shrubs, flowers and other small plants, grass clippings and leaves.
All grass clippings and leaves shall be loose (not bagged) and free of all
other debris (sticks, rocks, dirt, paper and the like).
      (2)   Residential bulk items. Small quantities of carpet, padding,
shingles and other construction debris, white goods, residential furniture,
large cardboard boxes (broken down and stacked), disassembled metal items (i.e.
playground equipment, swing-sets and the like), doors, windows, decking
material and lawn care equipment (drained of all fluids and with tires
removed). These items must have belonged to the owner of the residence and have
been previously located there.
   (B)   All yard waste and bulk items to be collected shall be placed within
the street right-of-way at the back of the curb without extending into the
gutter or street itself. Yard waste placed behind the curb shall not exceed a
distance of six feet from the back of the curb into the property. All items
shall be placed a minimum of eight feet from any sign, water meter, mailbox,
landscaping, low hanging overhead utilities or any other obstruction.
   (C)   Collection of yard waste and bulk items will occur on a weekly
schedule developed by the Public Works Director or his or her designee. No more
than seven cubic yards (eight feet long by four feet high by six feet wide) of
yard waste will be collected from each residence in a one week period. Larger
quantities of yard waste may be collected by the town for a fee determined by
the Town Council. The town reserves the right to refuse pick up of all items if
any items are not in compliance with this section.
(Ord. 509, passed 2-11-91; Am. Ord. passed 11-8- 93; Am. Ord. passed 9-14-98;
Am. Ord., passed 1- 12-09)
§ 52.02 SERVICES NOT PROVIDED BY TOWN.
   (A)   The town shall not collect:
      (1)   Anything from vacant lots.
      (2)   Tree trunks, tree stumps and tree limbs in excess of six feet in
length or 12 inches in diameter.
      (3)   Building material scraps.
      (4)   Waste building materials, lot clearings, or tree trimmings from
houses or other structures under construction or recently completed.
      (5)   Any other type of trash or bagged material.
      (6)   Tires.
      (7)   Batteries.
      (8)   Oil, paint or other toxic liquids.
      (9)   Demolition debris (i.e. dirt, rock, bricks, sod, asphalt, concrete
and the like).
      (10)   Debris or waste generated by commercial operations.
      (11)   Any material the town deems unsafe for its employees to handle.
   (B)   When a resident or property owner hires someone to trim trees, it is
his or her responsibility to dispose of tree limbs and trimmings.
(Ord. 509, passed 2-11-91; Am. Ord., passed 11-8- 93; Am. Ord., passed 1-12-09)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.03 REGULATION OF CONTAINERS AND BINS.
   (A)   Roll-out containers and recycle bins may be placed at the street on
the evening prior to the following day collection. Containers and bins must be
returned to your house by 9:00 p.m. the evening of your pick up.
   (B)   All roll-out containers and recycle bins must be screened from view
from a public street.
   (C)   Any homeowner association with existing policies regarding the times
of placement/retrieval and screening of garbage or recycling bins will be
exempt from this section.
(Ord. passed 7-29-04) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
      Failure to comply with §
52.03 will result in a civil penalty of $50, and each day the violation
continues shall be a separate violation.
(Ord. passed 7-29-04)
CHAPTER 53: STORM WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Title
   
53.002   Authority
   
53.003   Findings
   
53.004   Purpose
   
53.005   Applicability and jurisdiction
   
53.006   Interpretation
   
53.007   Design Manual
   
53.008   Relationship to other laws, regulations and private agreements
   
53.009   Effective date and transitional provisions
   
53.010   Definitions
   
53.011   Illicit discharges
Administration and Procedures
   
53.020   Review and decision-making entities
   
53.021   Review procedures
   
53.022   Applications for approval
   
53.023   Approvals
   
53.024   Right of appeal
Standards
   
53.040   General standards
   
53.041   Development standards for low density projects
   
53.042   Development standards for high density projects
   
53.043   Standards for storm water control measures
   
53.044   Variances
Maintenance
   
53.060   General standards
   
53.061   Operation and maintenance agreement
   
53.062   Inspection program
   
53.063   Performance security for installation and maintenance
   
53.064   Notice to owners
   
53.065   Records of installation and maintenance activities
   
53.066   Nuisance
Enforcement and Violations
   
53.075   General
   
53.076   Remedies and penalties
   
53.077   Procedures
Storm Water Utility
   
53.090   Findings
   
53.091   Purpose
   
53.092   Establishment of a Storm Water Services Utility and Storm Water
Services Enterprise Fund
   
53.093   Jurisdiction
   
53.094   Impervious surface area and Equivalent Rate Unit (ERU)
   
53.095   Schedule of fees and charges
   
53.096   Billing and collection
   
53.097   Disposition of service charges and fees
   
53.098   Credits and exemptions
Pet Waste
   
53.110   Purpose
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be officially known as “The Storm Water Quality
Ordinance”. It is referred to herein as “this chapter”.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord., passed 9-13-21)
§ 53.002 AUTHORITY.
   The Town Council of the Town of Harrisburg, further referred to herein as
“the town”, is authorized to adopt this chapter pursuant to North Carolina law,
including, but not limited, to Art. 14, § 5 of the Constitution of North
Carolina, the Charter of the Town of Harrisburg, North Carolina, G.S. § 143-
214.7 and rules promulgated by the Environmental Management Commission
thereunder and Session Law 2004-163; G.S. Ch. 160A, §§ 174, 185.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord., passed 9-13-21)
§ 53.003 FINDINGS.
   (A)   It is hereby determined that:
      (1)   Development alters the hydrologic response of local watersheds and
increases storm water runoff rates and volumes, flooding, soil erosion, stream
channel erosion, non-point and point source pollution and sediment transport
and deposition, as well as reducing groundwater recharge;
      (2)   These changes in storm water runoff contribute to increased
quantities of water-borne pollutants and alterations in hydrology which are
harmful to public health and safety as well as to the natural environment; and
      (3)   These effects can be managed and minimized by applying proper
design and well-planned controls to manage storm water runoff from development
sites.
   (B)   Further, the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972 (“Clean Water
Act”) and federal Phase II Storm Water Rules promulgated under it, as well as
rules of the North Carolina Environmental Management Commission promulgated in
response to federal Phase II requirements, compel certain urbanized areas,
including this jurisdiction, to adopt the minimum storm water controls such as
those included in this chapter.
   (C)   Therefore, the Town Council establishes this set of water quality and
quantity regulations to meet the requirements of state and federal law
regarding control of storm water runoff and discharge.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord., passed 1-13-20; Am. Ord., passed 9-13-21)
§ 53.004 PURPOSE.
   (A)   General. The purpose of this chapter is to protect, maintain and
enhance the public health, safety, environment and general welfare by
establishing minimum requirements and procedures to control the adverse effects
of increased post-development storm water runoff and non-point and point source
pollution associated with new development and redevelopment as well as illicit
discharges into municipal storm water systems. It has been determined that
proper management of construction-related and post-development storm water
runoff will minimize damage to public and private property and infrastructure,
safeguard the public health, safety and general welfare, and protect water and
aquatic resources.
   (B)   Specific. This chapter seeks to meet its general purpose through the
following specific objectives and means:
      (1)   Establishing decision-making processes for development that
protects the integrity of watersheds and preserves the health of water
resources;
      (2)    Requiring that new development maintain the pre- development
hydrologic response in their post-development state as nearly as practicable
for the applicable design storm to reduce flooding, stream bank erosion, non-
point and point source pollution and increases in stream temperature, and to
maintain the integrity of stream channels and aquatic habitats;
      (3)   Establishing minimum post-development storm water management
standards and design criteria for the regulation and control of storm water
runoff quantity and quality;
      (4)   Establishing design and review criteria for the construction,
function and use of storm water control measures (SCMs) that may be used to
meet the minimum post-development storm water management standards;
      (5)   Encouraging the use of better management and site design practices,
such as the use of vegetated conveyances for storm water and the preservation
of green space, riparian buffers and other conservation areas to the maximum
extent practicable;
      (6)   Establishing provisions for the long-term responsibility for and
maintenance of SCMs to ensure that they continue to function as designed, are
maintained appropriately and pose no threat to public safety;
      (7)   Establishing administrative procedures for the submission, review,
approval and disapproval of storm water management plans, for the inspection of
approved projects and to assure appropriate long-term maintenance;
      (8)   Controlling illicit discharges into the municipal separate storm
water system; and
      (9)   Controlling erosion and sedimentation from construction activities.
      (10)   Provide for the proper disposal of pet solid waste in the town, so
as to protect the public health, safety and welfare and to prescribe penalties
for failure to comply.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord., passed 1-13-20; Am. Ord., passed 9-13-21)
§ 53.005 APPLICABILITY AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Applicability. Beginning with and subsequent to its effective date,
this chapter shall be applicable to all development including, but not limited
to, site plan applications, subdivision applications and grading applications,
unless exempt pursuant to division (B) below.
      (1)   Development that cumulatively disturbs more than 10,000 square feet
and or is part of a larger common plan of development or sale that cumulatively
disturbs more than 10,000 square feet must comply with the provisions of this
chapter and the standards set forth in §§
53.040 through
53.043.
      (2)   Development is part of a larger common plan of development or sale,
even though multiple, separate or distinct activities may take place at
different times on different schedules and by different developers.
   (B)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Redevelopment as defined in §
53.010.
      (2)   Activities that are exempt from permit requirements of § 404 of the
federal Clean Water Act as specified in 40 C.F.R. 232 (primarily, non-point
source agricultural and siivicultural (forestry) activities) are exempt from
the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   No development until compliance and permit. No development shall occur
except in compliance with the provisions of this chapter or unless exempted. No
development for which a permit is required pursuant to this chapter shall occur
except in compliance with the provisions, conditions and limitations of the
permit.
   (D)   Jurisdiction. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all public
or private building(s), land(s) and use(s) thereon over which the town has or
will have future jurisdiction under the constitution(s) and law(s) of the State
of North Carolina and of the United States, including any areas within the
jurisdiction of the town pursuant to G.S. § 160A-360. Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-
392, each provision of this chapter is applicable to the erection, construction
and use of buildings by the State of North Carolina and its political
subdivisions.
   (E)   Map.
      (1)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply within the areas
designated on the map titled “Storm Water Quality Map of Harrisburg, North
Carolina” (“the Storm Water Map”), which is adopted simultaneously herewith.
The Storm Water Map and all explanatory matter contained thereon accompanies
and is hereby made a part of this chapter.
      (2)   The Storm Water Map shall be kept on file by the Storm Water
Administrator and shall be updated to take into account changes to the future
service area covered by this chapter and the geographic location of all SCMs
permitted under this chapter. In the event of a dispute, the applicability of
this chapter to a particular area of land or BMP shall be determined by
reference to the North Carolina Statutes, the North Carolina Administrative
Code and local zoning and jurisdictional boundary ordinances.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord., passed 1-13-20; Am. Ord., passed 9-13-21)
§ 53.006 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Meaning and intent. All provisions, terms, phrases and expressions
contained in this chapter shall be construed according to the general and
specific purposes set forth in §
53.004. If a different or more specific meaning is given for a term defined
elsewhere in the town’s Unified Development Ordinance or other ordinances, the
meaning and application of the term in this chapter control for purposes of
application of this chapter.
   (B)   Text controls in event of conflict. In the event of a conflict or
inconsistency between the text of this chapter and any heading, caption,
figure, illustration, table or map, the text shall control.
   (C)   Authority for interpretation. The Storm Water Administrator has
authority to determine the interpretation of this chapter. Any person may
request an interpretation by submitting a written request to the Storm Water
Administrator, who shall respond in writing within 30 days. The Storm Water
Administrator shall keep on file a record of all written interpretations of
this chapter.
   (D)   References to statutes, regulations and documents. Whenever reference
is made to a resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation, manual or document, it
shall be construed as a reference to the most recent edition of such that has
been finalized and published with due provision for notice and comment, unless
otherwise specifically stated.
   (E)   Computation of time. The time in which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last day. If a deadline
or required date of action falls on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday observed by
the town, the deadline or required date of action shall be the next day that is
not a Saturday, Sunday or holiday observed by the town. References to days are
calendar days unless otherwise stated.
   (F)   Delegation of authority. Any act authorized by this chapter to be
carried out by the Storm Water Administrator of the town may be carried out by
his or her designee.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord., passed 9-13-21)
§ 53.007 DESIGN MANUAL.
   (A)   Reference to Design Manual.
      (1)   The Storm Water Administrator shall use the policy, criteria and
information, including technical specifications and standards, in the Design
Manual as the basis for decisions about storm water permits and about the
design, implementation and performance of SCMs and stormwater management
practices.
      (2)   The Design Manual includes a list of acceptable SCMs and storm
water management practices and provides instruction for design and analysis
methodologies. SCMs and storm water management practices that are designed,
constructed and maintained in accordance with these methodologies and the
standards of this chapter will be presumed to meet the minimum water quality
performance standards of the Phase II laws.
      (3)   The Design Manual may consist of one or several acceptable manuals
or documents determined by the Storm Water Administrator. The Storm Water
Administrator may add or remove manuals or documents from reference at his or
her discretion in order to provide the guidance to meet this chapter and Phase
II laws.
   (B)   Relationship of Design Manual to other laws and regulations. If the
specifications or guidelines of the Design Manual are more restrictive or apply
a higher standard than other laws or regulations, that fact shall not prevent
application of the specifications or guidelines in the Design Manual.
   (C)   Changes to standards and specifications. If the standards,
specifications, guidelines, policies, criteria or other information in the
Design Manual are amended subsequent to the submittal of an application for
approval pursuant to this chapter but prior to approval, the new information
shall control and shall be utilized in reviewing the application and in
implementing this chapter with regard to the application.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord., passed 1-13-20; Am. Ord., passed 9-13-21)
§ 53.008 RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER LAWS, REGULATIONS AND PRIVATE AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Conflict of laws. This chapter is not intended to modify or repeal any
other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law. The requirements
of this chapter are in addition to the requirements of any other ordinance,
rule, regulation or other provision of law. Where any provision of this chapter
imposes restrictions different from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule,
regulation or other provision of law, whichever provision is more restrictive
or imposes higher protective standards for human or environmental health,
safety and welfare, shall control.
   (B)   Private agreements. This chapter is not intended to revoke or repeal
any easement, covenant or other private agreement. However, where the
regulations of this chapter are more restrictive or impose higher standards or
requirements than such an easement, covenant or other private agreement, the
requirements of this chapter shall govern. Nothing in this chapter shall modify
or repeal any private covenant or deed restriction, but such covenant or
restriction shall not legitimize any failure to comply with this chapter. In no
case shall the town be obligated to enforce the provisions of any easements,
covenants or agreements between private parties.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord., passed 9-13-21)
§ 53.009 EFFECTIVE DATE AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Effective date. This chapter shall take effect on January 1, 2008.
   (B)   Final approvals, complete applications. All development projects for
which complete and full applications were submitted and approved by the town
prior to the effective date of this chapter and which remain valid, unexpired,
unrevoked and not otherwise terminated at the time of development shall be
exempt from complying with all provisions of this chapter dealing with the
control and/or management of post-construction runoff, but shall be required to
comply with all other applicable provisions, including but not limited to,
illicit discharge provisions.
   (C)   Violations continue. Any violation of provisions existing on the
effective date of this chapter shall continue to be a violation under this
chapter and be subject to penalties and enforcement under this chapter unless
the use, development, construction or other activity complies with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord., passed 1-13-20; Am. Ord., passed 9-13-21)
§ 53.010 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   1-YEAR, 24-HOUR STORM. The surface runoff resulting from a 24-hour rainfall
intensity expected to be equaled or exceeded, on average, once in 12 months and
with duration of 24 hours.
   10-YEAR, 24-HOUR STORM. The surface runoff resulting from a 24-hour rainfall
intensity expected to be equaled or exceeded, on average, one in ten chances in
12 months and with duration of 24 hours.
   BUILT-UPON AREA (BUA). That portion of a development project that is covered
by impervious or partially impervious surface to the extent that the partially
impervious surface does not allow water to infiltrate through the surface to
the subsoil. BUILT- UPON AREA includes but is not limited to, buildings,
pavement and gravel areas such as roads, parking lots and paths and recreation
facilities such as tennis courts. BUILT-UPON AREA does not include a slatted
deck, the water area of a swimming pool, a surface of number 57 stone, as
designated by the American Society of Testing and Materials, laid at least four
inches thick over a geotextile fabric, or a trail as defined in G.S. 113A-85
that is either unpaved or paved as long as the pavement is porous with a
hydraulic conductivity greater than 0.001 centimeters per second (1.41.inches
per hour).
   CREDITS. Represent on-going reductions in the storm water management service
charge applicable to a given zoning lot or tract in recognition of on-site or
off-site systems, facilities, measures and/or actions undertaken to reduce or
mitigate the storm water quantity and/or quality impact(s) of the zoning lot or
tract that would otherwise impact the public storm water management system.
Credits shall be  conditioned on the continuing performance of the mitigation
systems, facilities, measures or actions in reference to standards adopted by
the Storm Water Management Utility, and may be revised or rescinded for cause.
In no case shall credits exceed the amount of the storm water management
service charge. The means and measures for identifying, issuing and obtaining
credits will be provided in a credit manual approved by the Town Council.
   CURB OUTLET SYSTEM. Constructed curb and gutter with breaks or other outlets
used to convey storm water runoff to vegetated conveyances or other vegetated
areas.
   DEPARTMENT. The North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality.
   DESIGN MANUAL. A single document or manual or collection of documents and
manuals referenced by the town containing policy, criteria and information,
including technical specifications and standards, for designing and operating
SCMs and any conveyances, appurtenances or other structures to or from the BMP.
All references herein to the Design Manual are to the latest published edition
or revision.
   DEVELOPED LAND. A zoning lot or tract altered from its natural state to
include impervious surface area equal to or greater than 200 square feet.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any land-disturbing activity that increases the amount of
built-upon area or that otherwise decreases the infiltration of precipitation
into the subsoil. When additional development occurs at a site that has
existing development, the built- upon area of the existing development shall
not be included in the density calculations for additional storm water control
requirements and storm water control requirements cannot be applied
retroactively to existing development, unless otherwise required by federal
law.
   DIVISION. The Division of Energy, Mineral and Land Resources in the
department.
   DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Natural and structural channels, swales, ditches, swamps,
rivers, streams, creeks, wetlands, branches, reservoirs, ponds, drainage ways,
inlets, catch basins, gutters, pipes, culverts, bridges, head walls, storm
sewers, lakes and other physical works, properties and improvements that
transfer, control, convey or otherwise influence the movement of storm water
runoff.
   EQUIVALENT RATE UNIT (ERU). An ERU represents 2,000 square feet of
impervious surface or fraction thereof.
   FUTURE SERVICE AREA. The land area located in Cabarrus County that the Town
of Harrisburg could potentially provide municipal services and governance to in
the future. This chapter will be administered throughout. This area should not
be confused with the municipal limits or the extra-territorial jurisdiction
area of the town.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE AREA. Developed areas of land that prevent or
significantly impede the infiltration of storm water into the soil. Typical
impervious surface areas include, but are not limited to roofs, sidewalks,
walkways, patios, swimming pools, private driveways, parking lots, access
extensions, alleys and other paved, engineered, compacted or gravel surfaces
containing materials that prevent or significantly impede the natural
infiltration of storm water into the soil.
   LARGER COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE. Any area where multiple separate
and distinct construction or land-disturbing activities will occur under one
plan. A plan is any announcement or piece of documentation (including, but not
limited to, a sign, public notice or hearing, sales pitch, advertisement, loan
application, drawing, permit application, zoning request or computer design) or
physical demarcation (including, but not limited to, boundary signs, lot stakes
or surveyor markings) indicating that construction activities may occur on a
specific plot.
   NATURAL STATE. Existing undeveloped land where the soil and vegetation
characteristics that have not been substantially modified or disturbed by human
activities and the hydrologic function is in an unaltered or natural condition.
   OWNER. The legal or beneficial owner of land, including, but not limited to,
a mortgagee or vendee in possession, receiver, executor, trustee or long-term
or commercial lessee, or any other person or entity holding proprietary rights
in the property or having legal power of management and control of the
property. OWNER shall include long-term commercial tenants, management
entities, such as those charged with or engaged in the management of properties
for profit and every person or entity having joint ownership of the property. A
secured lender not in possession of the property does not constitute an owner,
unless the secured lender is included within the meaning of OWNER under another
description in this definition, such as a management entity.
   PROJECT. The proposed development activity for which an applicant is seeking
a storm water permit from the state or other entity in accordance with this
chapter. PROJECT shall exclude any land adjacent to the area disturbed by the
project that has been counted as pervious by any other development regulated
under a federal, state or local storm water regulation. Owners and developers
of large developments consisting of many linked projects may consider
developing a master plan that illustrates how each project fits into the design
of the large development.
   PROJECT AREA. Disturbed area of the development. Area that encompasses
active open space, buildings or dwelling units, and street right-of-way.
   REDEVELOPMENT. Any land disturbing activity that does not result in a net
increase in built-upon area and that provides greater or equal storm water
control to that of the previous development.
   RIPARIAN. Of or pertaining to the landscape interface between an upland area
and a flowing surface water body. Riparian areas exhibit their own significance
in geography, particularly ecology and hydrology, which are significantly
influenced by its relationship with the surface water body.
   RUNOFF TREATMENT. By which the volume of storm water runoff generated from
all of the built- upon area of a project at build- out during a storm of the
required storm depth is treated in one or more primary SCMs or a combination of
primary and secondary SCMs that provides equal or better treatment.
   RUNOFF VOLUME MATCH. The annual runoff volume after development shall not be
more than 10% higher than the annual runoff volume before development.
   SERVICE AREA. The land within the corporate limits of the town, including
all land areas legally annexed thereto.
   SERVICE CHARGE. A storm water management service charge, applicable to a
zoning lot or tract, that generally reflects the impact on or demand for storm
water management services provided by the town to properly control and manage
storm water runoff quantity and/or quality associated with the zoning lot or
tract. The service charge will vary from one zoning lot or tract to another,
based on the impervious surface area.
   SHEET FLOW. Conveyance of surface water or runoff at a depth significantly
less than the width of the flow path on which it flows. SHEET FLOW is
maintained until the flow begins to concentrate into rills or micro-channels.
The purpose for sheet flow in regards to this chapter is that sheet flow
maintains a lower energy and higher surface area of contact with the flow path
than concentrated flow.
   STORM WATER. The runoff from precipitation that travels over natural state
or developed land surfaces and enters a drainage system.
   STORM WATER CONTROL MEASURES. A permanent structural device that is
designed, constructed and maintained to remove pollutants from storm water
runoff by promoting settling or filtration; or to mimic the natural hydrologic
cycle by promoting infiltration, evapo-transpiration, post- filtration
discharge, reuse of storm water, or a combination thereof. Also known as SCM,
Best Management Practice or BMP.
   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM. An identified set of measures and activities
designed to protect, restore and/or manage storm water quality by controlling
and/or reducing pollutants and to reduce and/or manage storm water quantity by
controlling velocity, volume and rate.
   STORM WATER SERVICES UTILITY. An organizational structure that is
responsible for funding, administering and operating the town’s storm water
management program, and that is supported thorough a rate structure based on
the impervious surface area found on zoning lots or tracts located within the
service area.
   STRUCTURAL BMP. A physical device designed to trap, settle out or filter
pollutants from storm water runoff, to alter or reduce storm water runoff
velocity, amount, timing or other characteristics, to approximate the pre-
development hydrology on a developed site or to achieve any combination of
these goals. STRUCTURAL BMP includes physical practices such as constructed
wetlands, vegetative practices, filter strips, grassed swales and other methods
installed or created on real property. STRUCTURAL BMP is synonymous with
STRUCTURAL PRACTICE, STORM WATER CONTROL FACILITY, STORM WATER CONTROL
PRACTICE, STORM WATER TREATMENT PRACTICE, STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PRACTICE,
STORM WATER CONTROL MEASURES, STRUCTURAL STORM WATER TREATMENT SYSTEMS and
similar terms used in this chapter.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROGRESS. For the purposes of determining whether sufficient
progress has been made on an approved plan, one or more of the following
construction activities toward the completion of a site or subdivision plan
shall occur: obtaining a grading permit and conducting grading activity on a
continuous basis and not discontinued for more than 30 days or installation and
approval of on-site infrastructure; or obtaining a building permit for the
construction and approval of a building foundation. SUBSTANTIAL PROGRESS for
purposes of determining whether an approved plan is null and void is not
necessarily the same as SUBSTANTIAL EXPENDITURES used for determining vested
rights pursuant to applicable law.
   TRACT. A parcel of land not previously recorded as a zoning lot.
   UNDEVELOPED LAND. All land that is not altered from its natural state to an
extent that results in 200 or more square feet of impervious surface area.
   ZONING LOT. A legally subdivided lot (not a tract) shown on a legally
recorded plat or deed, or a combination of such legally subdivided and recorded
adjacent lots.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord., passed 1-13-20; Am. Ord., passed 9-13-21)
§ 53.011 ILLICIT DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Illicit discharges. No person shall cause or allow the discharge,
emission, disposal, pouring or pumping directly or indirectly to any storm
water conveyance, the waters of the state or upon the land in a manner and
amount that the substance is likely to reach a storm water conveyance or the
waters of the state, any liquid, solid, gas or other substance, other than
storm water.
   (B)   Non-storm water discharges. Non-storm water discharges associated with
the following activities, as specified in 40.C.F.R. 122.26, are allowed,
provided that they do not significantly impact water quality:
      (1)   Water line flushing;
      (2)   Landscape irrigation;
      (3)   Diverted stream flows;
      (4)   Rising ground waters;
      (5)   Uncontaminated ground water infiltration (as defined at 40 C.F.R.
35.2005(20));
      (6)   Uncontaminated pumped ground water;
      (7)   Discharges from potable water sources;
      (8)   Foundation drains;
      (9)   Air conditioning condensation;
      (10)   Irrigation water;
      (11)   Springs;
      (12)   Water from crawl space pumps;
      (13)   Footing drains;
      (14)   Lawn watering;
      (15)    Individual residential and charity car washing;
      (16)   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;
      (17)   Dechlorinated swimming pool discharges;
      (18)   Street wash water; and
      (19)    Flows from firefighting activities.
      (20)   Other non-storm water discharges for which a valid NPDES discharge
permit has been approved and issued by the State of North Carolina, and
provided that any such discharges to the municipal separate storm sewer system
shall be authorized by the town. Prohibited substances include, but are not
limited to, oil, anti-freeze, chemicals, animal waste, paints, garbage and
litter.
   (C)   Illicit connections.
      (1)   Connections to a storm water conveyance or storm water conveyance
system that allow the discharge of non-storm water, other than the exclusions
described in division (A) above, are unlawful. Prohibited connections include,
but are not limited to, floor drains, wastewater from washing machines or
sanitary sewers, wash water from commercial vehicle washing or steam cleaning
and wastewater from septic systems.
      (2)   Where such connections exist in violation of this section and the
connections were made prior to the adoption of this provision or any other
ordinance prohibiting such connections, the property owner or the person using
the connection shall remove the connection within one year following the
effective date of this chapter. However, the one-year grace period shall not
apply to connections which may result in the discharge of hazardous materials
or other discharges which pose an immediate threat to health and safety, or are
likely to result in immediate injury and harm to real or personal property,
natural resources, wildlife or habitat.
      (3)   Where it is determined that the connection:
         (a)   May result in the discharge of hazardous materials or may pose
an immediate threat to health and safety, or is likely to result in immediate
injury and harm to real or personal property, natural resources, wildlife or
habitat; or
         (b)   Was made in violation of any applicable regulation or ordinance,
other than this section. The Storm Water Administrator shall designate the time
within which the connection shall be removed. In setting the time limit for
compliance, the Storm Water Administrator shall take into consideration:
            1.   The quantity and complexity of the work;
            2.   The consequences of delay;
            3.   The potential harm to the environment, to the public health
and to public and private property; and
            4.   The cost of remedying the damage.
   (D)   Spills.
      (1)   Spills or leaks of polluting substances released, discharged to or
having the potential to be released or discharged to the storm water conveyance
system, shall be contained, controlled, collected and properly disposed. All
affected areas shall be restored to their preexisting condition.
      (2)   Persons in control of the polluting substances immediately prior to
their release or discharge, and persons owning the property on which the
substances were released or discharged, shall immediately notify the town’s
Fire Department of the release or discharge, as well as making any required
notifications under state and federal law. Notification shall not relieve any
person of any expenses related to the restoration, loss, damage or any other
liability, which may be incurred as a result of the spill or leak, nor shall
such notification relieve any person from other liability that may be imposed
by state or other law.
   (E)   Nuisance. When illicit discharges and illicit connections, which exist
within the town, are hereby found, deemed and declared to be dangerous or
prejudiced to the public health or public safety and are found, deemed and
declared to be public nuisances. Such public nuisances shall be abated in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Chapter 920 of the town’s Code of
Ordinances.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord., passed 1-13-20; Am. Ord., passed 9-13-21)
Penalty, see §
10.99
ADMINISTRATION AND PROCEDURES
§ 53.020 REVIEW AND DECISION- MAKING ENTITIES.
   (A)   Designation. A Storm Water Administrator shall be designated by the
Town Council to administer and enforce this chapter.
   (B)   Powers and duties. In addition to the powers and duties that may be
conferred by other provisions of the Town Charter, Code of Ordinances, Unified
Development Ordinance and other laws, the Storm Water Administrator shall have
the following powers and duties under this chapter:
      (1)   To review and approve, approve with conditions or disapprove
applications for approval of plans pursuant to this chapter;
      (2)   Make determinations and render interpretations of this chapter;
      (3)    Establish application requirements and schedules for submittal and
review of applications and appeals, to review and make recommendations to the
Town Council on applications for development approvals;
      (4)   Enforce the provisions of this chapter in accordance with its
enforcement provisions;
      (5)   Maintain records, maps, forms and official materials as relate to
the adoption, amendment, enforcement and administration of this chapter;
      (6)   Provide expertise and technical assistance to the Town Council and
any Town Council-delegated committee for the purposes of enforcing the
provisions of this chapter, upon request;
      (7)   Designate appropriate other person(s) who shall carry out
specifically delegated powers and duties of the Storm Water Administrator; and
      (8)   Take any other action necessary to administer the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord., passed 1-13-20; Am. Ord., passed 9-13-21)
§ 53.021 REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Permit required; must apply for permit. A storm water permit is
required for all development and redevelopment unless exempt pursuant to this
chapter. A permit may only be issued subsequent to a properly submitted and
reviewed permit application, pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Effect of permit.
      (1)    A storm water permit shall govern the design, installation and
construction of storm water management and control practices on the site,
including SCMs and elements of site design for storm water management other
than SCMs.
      (2)   The permit is intended to provide a mechanism for the review,
approval and inspection of the approach to be used for the management and
control of storm water for the development site consistent with the
requirements of this chapter, whether the approach consists of SCMs or other
techniques such as low-impact or low-density design. The permit does not
continue in existence definitely after the completion of the project; rather,
compliance after project construction is assured by the maintenance provisions
of this chapter.
   (C)   Authority to file applications. All applications required pursuant to
this code shall be submitted to the Storm Water Administrator by the land owner
or the land owner’s duly authorized agent.
   (D)   Establishment of application requirements, schedule and fees.
      (1)   Application contents and form. The Storm Water Administrator shall
establish requirements for the content and form of all applications and shall
amend and update those requirements from time to time. At a minimum, the storm
water permit application shall describe in detail how post-development storm
water runoff will be controlled and managed, the design of all storm water
facilities and practices and how the proposed project will meet the
requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Submission schedule. The Storm Water Administrator shall establish
a submission schedule for applications. The schedule shall establish deadlines
by which complete applications must be submitted for the purpose of ensuring
that there is adequate time to review applications, and that the various stages
in the review process are accommodated.
      (3)   Permit review fees. The Town Council shall establish permit review
fees as well as policies regarding refund of any fees upon withdrawal of an
application, and may amend and update the fees and policies from time to time.
      (4)   Administrative manual. For applications required under this Code,
the Storm Water Administrator shall compile the application requirements,
submission schedule, fee schedule, a copy of this chapter, and information on
how and where to obtain the Design Manual in an administrative manual, which
shall be made available to the public.
   (E)   Submittal of complete application.
      (1)   Applications shall be submitted to the Storm Water Administrator
pursuant to the application submittal schedule in the form established by the
Storm Water Administrator, along with the appropriate fee established pursuant
to this section.
      (2)   An application shall be considered as timely submitted only when it
contains all elements of a complete application pursuant to this chapter, along
with the appropriate fee. If the Storm Water Administrator finds that an
application is incomplete, the applicant shall be notified of the deficient
elements and shall be provided with an opportunity to submit a complete
application. However, the submittal of an incomplete application shall not
suffice to meet a deadline contained in the submission schedule established
above.
   (F)   Review. Within 30 working days alter a complete application is
submitted, the Storm Water Administrator shall review the application and
determine whether the application complies with the standards of this chapter.
      (1)   Approval. If the Storm Water Administrator finds that the
application complies with the standards of this chapter, the Storm Water
Administrator shall approve the application. The Storm Water Administrator may
impose conditions of approval as needed to ensure compliance with this chapter.
The conditions shall be included as part of the approval.
      (2)   Fails to comply. If the Storm Water Administrator finds that the
application fails to comply with the standards of this chapter, the Storm Water
Administrator shall notify the applicant and shall indicate how the application
fails to comply. The applicant shall have an opportunity to submit a revised
application.
      (3)   Revision and subsequent review. A complete revised application
shall be reviewed by the Storm Water Administrator within 30 working days after
its re-submittal and shall be approved, approved with conditions or
disapproved. If a revised application is not re-submitted within 30 calendar
days from the date the applicant was notified, the application shall be
considered withdrawn, and a new submittal for the same or substantially the
same project shall be required along with the appropriate fee. One re-submittal
of a revised application may be submitted without payment of an additional
permit review fee. Any re-submittal after the first re-submittal shall be
accompanied by a permit review fee additional fee, as established pursuant to
this chapter.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord., passed 1-13-20; Am. Ord., passed 9-13-21)
§ 53.022 APPLICATIONS FOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   Concept plan and consultation meeting. Before a Storm Water Management
Permit application is deemed complete, the developer shall schedule a
consultation with the Storm Water Administrator on a concept plan for the post-
construction storm water management system to be utilized in the proposed
development project. This consultation meeting should take place at the time of
the preliminary plan of subdivision or other early step in the development
process. The purpose of this meeting is to discuss the post-construction storm
water management measures necessary for the proposed project, as well as to
discuss and assess constraints, opportunities and potential approaches to storm
water management designs before formal site design engineering is commenced.
Local watershed plans, the Unified Development Ordinance and other relevant
resource protection plans should be consulted in the discussion of the concept
plan. To accomplish this goal, the following information should be included in
the concept plan, which should be submitted in advance of the meeting.
      (1)   Existing conditions/proposed site plans. Existing conditions and
proposed site layout sketch plans, which illustrate at a minimum: existing and
proposed topography, perennial and intermittent streams, mapping of predominant
soils from soil surveys (if available), boundaries of existing predominant
vegetation; proposed limits of clearing and grading and location of existing
and proposed roads, buildings, parking areas and other impervious surfaces.
      (2)   Natural resources inventory. A written or graphic inventory of the
natural resources at the site and surrounding area as it exists prior to the
commencement of the project. This description should include a discussion of
soil conditions, forest cover, geologic features, topography, wetlands and
native vegetative areas on the site, as well as the location and boundaries of
other natural feature protection and conservation areas such as lakes, ponds,
flood plains, stream buffers and other setbacks (e.g., drinking water well
setbacks, septic setbacks and the like). Particular attention should be paid to
environmentally sensitive features that provide particular opportunities or
constraints for development and storm water management.
      (3)   Storm Water Management System Concept Plan. A written or graphic
concept plan of the proposed post-development storm water management system
including preliminary selection and location of proposed structural storm water
controls, low-impact design elements, location of existing and proposed
conveyance systems such as grass channels, swales and storm drains, flow paths,
location of flood plain/floodway limits, relationship of site to upstream and
downstream properties and drainages and preliminary location of any proposed
stream channel modifications, such as bridge or culvert crossings.
   (B)   Storm Water Management Permit application. The storm water management
permit application shall detail how post-development storm water runoff will be
controlled and managed and how the proposed project will meet the requirements
of this chapter, including §§
53.040 through
53.043. All such plans shall be prepared by a qualified registered North
Carolina professional engineer and the engineer shall perform services only in
his or her area of competence, and shall verify that the design of all storm
water management facilities and practices meets the submittal requirements for
complete applications, that the designs and plans are sufficient to comply with
applicable standards of this chapter and policies found in the Design Manual,
and that the designs and plans ensure compliance with this chapter. The
submittal shall include all of the information required in the submittal
checklist established by the Storm Water Administrator. Incomplete submittals
shall be treated pursuant to §
53.021(E).
   (C)   As-built plans and final approval.
      (1)   Upon completion of a project, and before a certificate of occupancy
shall be granted, the applicant shall certify that the completed project is in
accordance with the approved storm water management plans and designs, and
shall submit actual “as built” plans for all storm water management facilities
or practices after final construction is completed. Electronic versions of the
“as-built” plans shall accompany any hard copy submittal of plans.
      (2)   The plans shall show the final design specifications for all storm
water management facilities and practices and the field location, size, depth
and planted vegetation of all measures, controls and devices, as installed. The
designer of the storm water management measures and plans shall certify, under
seal, that the as-built storm water measures, controls and devices are in
compliance with the approved storm water management plans and designs and with
the requirements of this chapter. A final inspection and approval by the Storm
Water Administrator shall occur before the release of any performance
securities.
   (D)   Other permits. No certificate of compliance or occupancy shall be
issued by the Cabarrus County Commerce Department without final as-built plans
and a final inspection and approval by the Storm Water Administrator, except
where multiple units are served by the storm water practice or facilities, in
which case the Cabarrus County Commerce Department may elect to withhold a
percentage of permits or certificates of occupancy until as-built plans are
submitted and final inspection and approval has occurred.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord., passed 9-13-21)
§ 53.023 APPROVALS.
   (A)    Effect of approval. Approval authorizes the applicant to go forward
with only the specific plans and activities authorised in the permit. The
approval shall not be construed to exempt the applicant from obtaining other
applicable approvals from local, state and federal authorities.
   (B)   Time limit/expiration. An approved plan shall become null and void if
the applicant fails to make substantial progress on the site within one year
after the date of approval. The Storm Water Administrator may grant a single,
one-year extension of this time limit, for good cause shown, upon receiving a
written request from the applicant before the expiration of the approved plan.
In granting an extension, the Storm Water Administrator may require compliance
with standards adopted since the original application was submitted unless
there has been substantial reliance on the original permit and the change in
standards would infringe the applicant’s vested rights.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord., passed 9-13-21)
§ 53.024 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (A)   Procedure.
      (1)   Any application request for a variance shall be filed with the
Storm Water Administrator for transmittal to the Town Council.
      (2)   The Town Council shall conduct a hearing on the appeal pursuant to
the procedures established in G.S. § 160A-388b or § 3.1.8 of the town’s United
Development Ordinance.
      (3)   The Storm Water Board of Adjustment’s decision shall be considered
a final decision after the Board approves the official minutes containing such
during an official meeting and filed with the Town Clerk.
   (B)   Filing of appeal and procedures.
      (1)   Appeals shall be taken within the specified time by filing a notice
of appeal and specifying the grounds for appeal on forms provided by the town.
The Storm Water Administrator shall forthwith transmit to the Town Council all
documents constituting the record on which the decision appealed from was
taken.
      (2)   The hearing conducted by the Town Council shall be conducted in the
nature of a quasi-judicial proceeding with all findings of fact supported by
the competent material evidence.
   (C)   Review by Superior Court. Every decision of the Town Council shall be
subject to Superior Court review by proceedings in the nature of certiorari.
Petition for review by the Superior Court shall be filed with the Clerk of
Superior Court within 30 days after the later of the following:
      (1)   The decision of the Town Council is filed; or
      (2)   A written copy thereof is delivered to every aggrieved party who
has filed a written request for such copy with the Storm Water Administrator at
the time of its hearing of the case.
   (D)   Appeal. An aggrieved person may appeal to the Town Council any action
taken by the Storm Water Administrator pursuant to this section.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord., passed 9-13-21)
STANDARDS
§ 53.040 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   All development and redevelopment to which this chapter applies shall
comply with the standards of this section.
   (B)    Projects shall be considered low density if it contains no more than
24% built- upon area or no more than two dwelling units per acre; otherwise, it
shall be considered high density. The following requirements shall apply to the
calculation of project density:
      (1)   Project density shall be calculated as the total built-upon area
divided by the total project area.
      (2)   A project with existing development may use the calculation method
in Sub-301(A) or shall have the option of calculating project density as the
difference of total built- upon area minus existing built- upon area divided by
the difference of total project area minus existing built-upon area.
   (C)   SCMs shall be designed, constructed and maintained so that the project
achieves either runoff treatment or runoff volume match. For high density
projects designed to achieve runoff treatment, the required storm depth shall
be one inch.
   (D)   Storm water runoff from the development shall be transported from the
development by vegetated conveyances to the maximum extent practicable.
   (E)   Post-development discharges from development shall minimize downstream
private and public property damage resulting from flooding and impact to the
performance of public infrastructure.
   (F)   The approval of the storm water permit shall require an enforceable
restriction on property usage that runs with the land, such as recorded deed
restrictions or protective covenants, to ensure that future development
maintains the site consistent with the approved plans.
   (G)   All development to which this chapter applies shall comply with the
standards set forth in § 15 of Article 4 of the town's Unified Development
Ordinance, titled River/Stream Overlay (RSOD) District and pertaining to the
preservation of natural vegetated or re-vegetated areas along designated
streams and rivers. Approval of a storm water plan shall be granted on
adherence of the standards of § 4.15 of the town's Unified Development
Ordinance. New storm water outfalls resulting from development authorized under
this chapter shall be constructed to discharge their storm water as sheet flow
prior to entering the riparian buffer.
   (H)   All development to which this chapter applies shall comply with the
soil erosion and sedimentation control standards, where applicable, and
administered by North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality.. A storm
water permit shall be granted to the development once the development has
received an approved erosion control permit and registered a copy of the permit
and plan with the Storm Water Administer.
   (I)   All development shall comply with the town's zero net fill
requirement. Net fill shall not be permitted on any lot or parcel of property,
or any part thereof, located within a critical drainage area or within the 100-
year floodplain as designated on the most current FEMA floodplain map, without
express written consent of the Engineering and Public Works Director or his or
her designee.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord., passed 1-13-20; Am. Ord., passed 9-13-21)
§ 53.041 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR LOW DENSITY PROJECTS.
   This section shall be applicable to all development, pursuant to §
53.005(A), unless exempt pursuant to §
53.005(B). The development shall implement design criteria that comply with
each of the following standards:
   (A)   Drainage systems shall be designed to maximize dispersed flow through
vegetated areas and minimize channelization of flow.
   (B)   Stormwater that cannot be released as dispersed flow shall be
transported by vegetated conveyances. A minimal amount of non-vegetated
conveyances for erosion protection or piping for driveways or culverts under a
road shall be allowed by the permitting authority when it cannot be avoided.
Vegetated conveyances shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Side slopes shall be no steeper than 3: 1 (horizontal to vertical)
unless it is demonstrated to the town that the soils and vegetation will remain
stable in perpetuity based on engineering calculations and on-site soil
investigation: and
      (2)   The conveyance shall be designed so that it does not erode during
the peak flow from the ten-year storm as demonstrated by engineering
calculations.
   (C)   Low density projects may use curb and gutter with outlets to convey
storm water to grassed swales or vegetated areas. Requirements for these curb
outlet systems shall be as follows:
      (1)   The curb outlets shall be designed such that the swale or vegetated
area can carry the peak flow from the ten-year storm at a non-erosive velocity.
      (2)   The longitudinal slope of the swale or vegetated area shall not
exceed 5%, except where not practical due to physical constraints. In these
cases, devices to slow the rate of runoff and encourage infiltration to reduce
pollutant delivery shall be provided.
      (3)   The swale's cross-section shall be trapezoidal with a minimum
bottom width of two feet.
      (4)   The side slopes of the swale or vegetated area shall be no steeper
than 3:1 (horizontal to vertical).
      (5)   The minimum length of the swale or vegetated area shall be 100
feet; and
      (6)   Low density projects may use treatment swales designed pursuant to
the Drainage Manual in lieu of the requirements specified in divisions (C)(1)
through (5) above.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord., passed 1-13-20; Am. Ord., passed 9-13-21)
§ 53.042 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR HIGH DENSITY PROJECTS.
   This section shall be applicable to all development. pursuant to § 53.005
(A), unless exempt pursuant to §
53.005(B). The development shall implement design criteria that comply with
each of the following standards:
   (A)   Post-development peak discharges must be controlled to pre-development
discharges for, at a minimum, the one-year, 24-hour storm and the ten-year, 24-
hour storm.
   (B)   SCMs shall be designed, constructed and maintained so that the
development achieves runoff treatment.
   (C)   Storm water runoff from off-site areas and existing development shall
not be required to be treated in the SCM. Runoff from off-site areas or
existing development that is not bypassed shall be included in the sizing of
on-site SCMs at its full built-out potential.
   (D)    A development that controls runoff through an off-site SCM shall be
allowed on a case-by-case basis as determined by the town if the off-site SCM
meets the provisions of the minimum design criteria.
   (E)   SCMs shall meet the relevant minimum design criteria set forth in 15A
NCAC 2H.1050 through .1062,except in accordance with Item (6) of 15A NCAC
2H.1003.
   (F)   When new built-upon area is added to existing development or existing
development is replaced with new built-upon area. only the area of net increase
shall be subject to this section.
(Ord., passed 1-13-20; Am. Ord., passed 9-13-21)
§ 53.043 STANDARDS FOR STORM WATER CONTROL MEASURES.
   (A)   Evaluation according to contents of Design Manual. All SCMs and storm
water management practices required under this chapter shall be evaluated by
the Storm Water Administrator according to the policies, criteria and
information, including technical specifications and standards and the specific
design criteria for each SCMs and storm water management practices, in the
Design Manual. The Storm Water Administrator shall determine whether specific
types and applications of SCMs and storm water management practices will be
adequate to meet the requirements of this chapter. Guidance on selecting an
appropriate SCMs and storm water management practices is provided in the Design
Manual.
   (B)   Determination of adequacy; presumptions and alternatives. SCMs and
storm water management practices that are designed, constructed and maintained
in accordance with the criteria and specifications in the Design Manual will be
presumed to meet the minimum water quality and quantity performance standards
of this chapter. Whenever an applicant proposes to utilize a practice or
practices not designed and constructed in accordance with the criteria and
specifications in the Design Manual, the applicant shall have the burden of
demonstrating that the practice(s) will satisfy the minimum water quality and
quantity performance standards of this chapter. The Storm Water Administrator
may require the applicant to provide the documentation, calculations and
examples as necessary for the Storm Water Administrator to determine whether
such an affirmative showing is made.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord., passed 1-13-20; Am. Ord., passed 9-13-21)
§ 53.044 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Any person may petition the Town Council for a variance granting
permission to use the person’s land in a manner otherwise prohibited by this
chapter. To qualify for a variance, the petitioner must show all of the
following:
      (1)   Unnecessary hardships would result from strict application of this
chapter;
      (2)   The hardships result from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as the location, size or topography of the property;
      (3)   The hardships did not result from actions taken by the petitioner;
and
      (4)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose and
intent of this chapter will secure public safety and welfare and will preserve
substantial justice.
   (B)   The Town Council may impose reasonable and appropriate conditions and
safeguards upon any variance it grants.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord., passed 1-13-20; Am. Ord., passed 9-13-21)
MAINTENANCE
§ 53.060 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Function of BMPs as intended. The owner of each SCM installed pursuant
to this chapter shall maintain and operate it to preserve and continue its
function in controlling storm water quality and quantity at the degree or
amount of function for which the SCM was designed.
   (B)   Annual maintenance inspection and report. The person responsible for
maintenance of any SCM installed pursuant to this chapter shall submit to the
Storm Water Administrator an inspection report from a qualified registered
North Carolina professional engineer performing services only in his or her
area of competence. The inspection report, at a minimum, shall contain all of
the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the land owner;
      (2)   The recorded book and page number of the lot of each SCM;
      (3)   A statement that an inspection was made of all SCMs;
      (4)   The date the inspection was made;
      (5)   A statement that all inspected SCMs are performing properly and
comply with the terms and conditions of the approved maintenance agreement
required by this chapter;
      (6)   The original signature and seal of the engineer inspecting the
SCMs; and
      (7)   Digital photographs of the SCMs and pertinent components integral
to its operation, including, but not limited to, inlet/outlet control
structures, downstream receiving channel/area, embankments and spillways,
safety features and vegetation. All inspection reports shall be on forms
supplied by the Storm Water Administrator. An original inspection report shall
be provided to the Storm Water Administrator beginning one year from the date
of as-built certification and each year thereafter on or before the date of the
as-built certification or as determined by the Storm Water Administrator.
   (C)   Maintenance easement. Every SCM installed pursuant to this chapter
shall be made accessible for adequate maintenance and repair by a maintenance
easement. The easement shall be recorded on the plans and included as an
attachment with the operation and maintenance agreement. The easement's terms
shall specify who may make use of the easement and for what purposes.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord., passed 1-13-20; Am. Ord., passed 9-13-21)
§ 53.061 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT.
   (A)   In general.
      (1)   Prior to the conveyance or transfer of any lot or building site to
be served by a SCM pursuant to this chapter, and prior to issuance of any
permit for development requiring a SCM pursuant to this chapter, the applicant
or owner of the site must execute an operation and maintenance agreement that
shall be binding on all subsequent owners, of the site, portions of the site
and lots or parcels served by the SCM. Until the transference of all property,
sites or lots served by the SCM, the original owner or applicant shall have
primary responsibility for carrying out the provisions of the maintenance
agreement.
      (2)   The operation and maintenance agreement shall require the owner or
owners to, maintain, repair and, if necessary, reconstruct the SCM and shall
state the terms, conditions and schedule of maintenance for the SCM. In
addition, it shall grant to the town a right of entry in the event that the
Storm Water Administrator has reason to believe it has become necessary to
inspect, monitor, maintain, repair or reconstruct the SCM; however, in no case
shall the right of entry, of itself, confer an obligation on the town to assume
responsibility for the SCM.
   (B)   The operation and maintenance agreement.
      (1)   The operation and maintenance agreement must be approved by the
Storm Water Administrator prior to plan approval, and it shall be referenced on
the final plat and shall be recorded with the county Register of Deeds upon
final plat approval. A copy of the recorded maintenance agreement shall be
given to the Storm Water Administrator within 14 days following its
recordation.
      (2)   For all SCMs required pursuant to this chapter and that are to be
or are owned and maintained by a homeowners' association property owners'
association, or similar entity, the required operation and maintenance
agreement shall include all of the following provisions:
         (a)    Acknowledgment that the association shall continuously operate
and maintain the storm water control and management facilities;
         (b)   Establishment of an escrow account, which can be spent solely
for sediment removal, structural, biological or vegetative replacement, major
repair or reconstruction of the SCMs. If SCMs are not performing adequately or
as intended or are not properly maintained, the town, in its sole discretion,
may remedy the situation, and in such instances, the town shall be fully
reimbursed from the escrow account. Escrowed funds may be spent by the
association for sediment removal, structural, biological or vegetative
replacement, major repair and reconstruction of the SCMs, provided that the
town shall first consent to the expenditure;
         (c)   Both developer contribution and annual sinking funds shall fund
the escrow account. Prior to plat recordation or issuance of construction
permits, whichever shall first occur, the developer shall pay into the escrow
account an amount equal to 25% of the initial construction cost of the SCMs.
Seventy-five percent of the total amount of sinking fund budget shall be
deposited into the escrow account within the first 15 years following the town
acceptance of the subdivision into the street maintenance system. Funds shall
be deposited each year into the escrow account. A portion of the annual
assessments of the association shall include an allocation into the escrow
account. Any funds drawn down from the escrow account shall be replaced in
accordance with the schedule of anticipated work used to create the sinking
fund budget;
         (d)   The percent of developer contribution and lengths of time to
fund the escrow account may be varied by the town depending on the design and
materials of the storm water control and management facility;
         (e)   Granting to the town a right of entry to inspect, monitor,
maintain, repair and reconstruct SCMs;
         (f)   Allowing the town to recover from the association and its
members any and all costs the town expends to maintain or repair the SCMs or to
correct any operational deficiencies. Failure to pay the town all of its
expended costs, after 45 days written notice, shall constitute a breach of the
agreement. In the case of deficiency, the town shall thereafter be entitled to
bring an action against the association and its members to pay, or foreclose
upon the lien hereby authorized by the agreement against the property, or both.
Interest, collection costs and attorney fees shall be added to the recovery;
         (g)   A statement that this agreement shall not obligate the town to
maintain or repair any SCMs and the town shall not be liable to any person for
the condition or operation of SCMs;
         (h)   A statement that this agreement shall not in any way diminish,
limit or restrict the right of the town to enforce any of its ordinances as
authorized by law; and
         (i)   A provision indemnifying and holding harmless the town for any
costs and injuries arising from or related to the SCM, unless the town has
agreed in writing to assume the maintenance responsibility for the BMP and has
accepted dedication of any and all rights necessary to carry out that
maintenance.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord., passed 1-13-20; Am. Ord., passed 9-13-21)
§ 53.062 INSPECTION PROGRAM.
   (A)   Inspections and inspection programs by the town may be conducted or
established on any reasonable basis, including, but not limited to, routine
inspections, random inspections, inspections based upon complaints or other
notice of possible violations and joint inspections with other agencies
inspecting under environmental or safety laws. Inspections may include, but are
not limited to, reviewing maintenance and repair records, sampling discharges,
surface water, groundwater and material or water in BMPs and evaluating the
condition of BMPs.
   (B)   If the owner or occupant of any property refuses to permit such
inspection, the Storm Water Administrator shall proceed to obtain an
administrative search warrant pursuant to G.S. §15-27.2 or its successor. No
person shall obstruct, hamper or interfere with the Storm Water Administrator
while carrying out his or her official duties.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord., passed 9-13-21)
§ 53.063 PERFORMANCE SECURITY FOR INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   May be required. The town, at its discretion, may require the
submittal of a performance security or bond with surety, cash escrow, letter of
credit or other acceptable legal arrangement prior to issuance of a permit in
order to ensure that the SCMs are:
      (1)   Installed by the permit holder as required by the approved storm
water management plan; and/or
      (2)   Maintained by the owner as required by the operation and
maintenance agreement.
   (B)   Amount.
      (1)   Installation. The amount of an installation performance security
shall be the total estimated construction cost of the BMPs approved under the
permit, plus 25%.
      (2)   Maintenance. The amount of a maintenance performance security shall
be the present value of an annuity of perpetual duration based on a reasonable
estimate of the annual cost of inspection, operation and maintenance of the
BMPs approved under the permit, at a discount rate that reflects the
jurisdiction’s cost of borrowing minus a reasonable estimate of long-term
inflation.
   (C)   Uses of performance security.
      (1)   Forfeiture provisions. The performance security shall contain
forfeiture provisions for failure, after proper notice, to complete work within
the time specified, or to initiate or maintain any actions which may be
required of the applicant or owner in accordance with this chapter, approvals
issued pursuant to this chapter or an operation and maintenance agreement
established pursuant to this chapter.
      (2)   Default. Upon default of the owner to construct, maintain, repair
and, if necessary, reconstruct any SCMs in accordance with the applicable
permit or operation and maintenance agreement, the Storm Water Administrator
shall obtain and use all or any portion of the security to make necessary
improvements based on an engineering estimate. Such expenditure of funds shall
only be made after requesting the owner to comply with the permit or
maintenance agreement. In the event of a default triggering the use of
installation performance security, the town shall not return any of the unused
deposited cash funds or other security, which shall be retained for
maintenance.
      (3)   Costs in excess of performance security. If the town takes action
upon such failure by the applicant or owner, the town may collect from the
applicant or owner the difference between the amount of the reasonable cost of
such action and the amount of the security held, in addition to any other
penalties or damages due.
      (4)   Refund. Within 60 days of the final approval, the installation
performance security shall be refunded to the applicant or terminated, except
any amount attributable to the cost (plus 25%) of landscaping installation and
ongoing maintenance associated with the BMPs covered by the security. Any such
landscaping shall be inspected one year after installation with replacement for
compliance with the approved plans and specifications and, if in compliance,
the portion of the financial security attributable to landscaping shall be
released.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord., passed 1-13-20; Am. Ord., passed 9-13-21)
§ 53.064 NOTICE TO OWNERS.
    The applicable operations and maintenance agreement pertaining to every SCM
shall be referenced on the final plat and shall be recorded with the county
Register of Deeds upon final plat approval. If no subdivision plat is recorded
for the site, then the operations and maintenance agreement shall be recorded
with the county Register of Deeds to appear in the chain of title of all
subsequent purchasers under generally accepted searching principles.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord., passed 1-13-20; Am. Ord., passed 9-13-21)
§ 53.065 RECORDS OF INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES.
    The owner of each SCM shall keep records of inspections, maintenance and
repairs for at least five years from the date of creation of the record and
shall submit the same upon reasonable request to the Storm Water Administrator.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord., passed 1-13-20; Am. Ord., passed 9-13-21)
§ 53.066 NUISANCE.
    The owner of each SCM or storm water management practices shall maintain it
so as not to create or result in a nuisance condition, such as, but not limited
to, flooding, erosion, excessive algal growth, overgrown vegetation, mosquito
breeding habitat, existence of unsightly debris or impairments to public safety
and health.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord., passed 1-13-20; Am. Ord., passed 9-13-21)
ENFORCEMENT AND VIOLATIONS
§ 53.075 GENERAL.
   (A)   Authority to enforce. The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced
by the Storm Water Administrator, his or her designee or any authorized agent
of the town. Whenever this section refers to the Storm Water Administrator, it
includes his or her designee as well as any authorized agent of the town.
   (B)   Violation unlawful. Any failure to comply with an applicable
requirement, prohibition, standard or limitation imposed by this chapter, or
the terms or conditions of any permit or other development approval or
authorization granted pursuant to this chapter, is unlawful and shall
constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Each day a separate offense. Each day that a violation continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct violation or offense.
   (D)   Responsible persons/entities. Any person who erects, constructs,
reconstructs, alters (whether actively or passively) or fails to erect,
construct, reconstruct, alter, repair or maintain any structure, BMP, practice
or condition in violation of this chapter shall be subject to the remedies,
penalties and/or enforcement actions in accordance with this section. Persons
subject to the remedies and penalties set forth herein may include any
architect, engineer, builder, contractor, developer, agency or any other person
who participates in, assists, directs, creates, causes or maintains a condition
that results in or constitutes a violation of this chapter, or fails to take
appropriate action, so that a violation of this chapter results or persists; or
an owner any tenant or occupant, or any other person, who has control over, or
responsibility for, the use or development of the property on which the
violation occurs. For the purposes of this subchapter, responsible person(s)
shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Person maintaining condition resulting in or constituting
violation. An architect, engineer, builder, contractor, developer, agency or
any other person who participates in, assists, directs, creates, causes or
maintains a condition that constitutes a violation of this chapter, or fails to
take appropriate action, so that a violation of this chapter results or
persists.
      (2)   Responsibility for land or use of land. The owner of the land on
which the violation occurs, any tenant or occupant of the property, any person
who is responsible for storm water controls or practices pursuant to a private
agreement or public document, or any person, who has control over, or
responsibility for, the use, development of the property.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord., passed 1-13-20; Am. Ord., passed 9-13-21)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.076 REMEDIES AND PENALTIES.
   The remedies and penalties provided for violations of this chapter, whether
civil or criminal, shall be cumulative and in addition to any other remedy
provided by law, and may be exercised in any order.
   (A)   Remedies.
      (1)   Withholding of Certificate of Occupancy. The Storm Water
Administrator or other authorized agent may refuse to issue a Certificate of
Occupancy for the building or other improvements constructed or being
constructed on the site and served by the storm water practices in question
until the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures
set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violations
described therein.
      (2)   Disapproval of subsequent permits and development approvals. As
long as a violation of this chapter continues and remains uncorrected, the
Storm Water Administrator or other authorized agent may withhold, and the town
may disapprove, any request for permit or development approval or authorization
provided for by this chapter for the land on which the violation occurs.
      (3)   Injunction, abatements and the like. The Storm Water Administrator,
within the written authorization of the town, may institute an action in a
court of competent jurisdiction for a mandatory or prohibitory injunction and
order of abatement to correct a violation of this chapter. Any person violating
this chapter shall be subject to the full range of equitable remedies provided
in the general statutes or at common law.
      (4)   Correction as public health nuisance, costs as lien and the like.
If the violation is deemed dangerous or prejudicial to the public health or
public safety and is within the geographic limits prescribed by G.S. § 160A-
193, the Storm Water Administrator, with the written authorization of the town,
may cause the violation to be corrected and the costs to be assessed as a lien
against the property.
      (5)   Stop work order. The Storm Water Administrator may issue a stop
work order to the person(s) violating this chapter. The stop work order shall
remain in effect until the person has taken the remedial measures set forth in
the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violation or violations
described therein. The stop work order may be withdrawn or modified to enable
the person to take the necessary remedial measures to cure such violation or
violations.
   (B)   Civil penalties. Violation of this chapter may subject the violator to
a civil penalty to be recovered in a civil action in the nature of a debt if
the violator does not pay the penalty within 30 days after notice of the
violation is issued by the Storm Water Administrator. Civil penalties may be
assessed up to the full amount of penalty to which the town is subject for
violations of its Phase II Storm Water Permit.
   (C)   Criminal penalties. Violation of this chapter may be enforced as a
misdemeanor subject to the maximum fine permissible under North Carolina law.
Violation of this chapter may be enforced as a misdemeanor in accordance with
G.S. § 14-4 with a fine in an amount not to exceed $500 for each offense.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord., passed 9-13-21; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22)
§ 53.077 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Initiation/complaint. Whenever a violation of this chapter occurs, or
is alleged to have occurred, any person may file a written complaint. Such
complaint shall state fully the alleged violation and the basis thereof, and
shall be filed with the Storm Water Administrator, who shall record the
complaint. The complaint shall be investigated promptly by the Storm Water
Administrator.
   (B)   Inspection. The Storm Water Administrator shall have the authority,
upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter and inspect any land,
building, structure or premises to ensure compliance with this chapter.
   (C)   Notice of violation and order to correct.
      (1)   When the Storm Water Administrator finds that any building,
structure or land is in violation of this chapter, the Storm Water
Administrator shall notify, in writing, the property owner or other person
violating this chapter. The notification shall indicate the nature of the
violation, contain the address or other description of the site upon which the
violation is occurring, order the necessary action to abate the violation and
give a deadline for correcting the violation. If civil penalties are to be
assessed, the notice of violation shall also contain a statement of the civil
penalties to be assessed, the time of their accrual and the time within which
they must be paid or be subject to collection as a debt.
      (2)   The Storm Water Administrator may deliver the notice of violation
and correction order personally, by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested or by any means authorized for the service of documents by
Rule 4 of the North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure.
      (3)   If a violation is not corrected within a reasonable period, as
provided in the notification, the Storm Water Administrator may take
appropriate
action under this chapter to correct and abate the violation and to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
   (D)   Extension of time. A person who receives a notice of violation and
correction order, or the owner of the land on which the violation occurs, may
submit to the Storm Water Administrator a written request for an extension of
time for correction of the violation. On determining that the request includes
enough information to show that the violation cannot be corrected within the
specified time limit for reasons beyond the control of the person requesting
the extension, the Storm Water Administrator may extend the time limit as is
reasonably necessary to allow timely correction of the violation, up to, but
not exceeding ten days. The Storm Water Administrator may grant five-day
extensions in addition to the foregoing extension if the violation cannot be
corrected within the permitted time due to circumstances beyond the control of
the person violating this chapter. The Storm Water Administrator may grant an
extension only by written notice of extension. The notice of extension shall
state the date prior to which correction must be made, after which the violator
will be subject to the penalties described in the notice of violation and
correction order.
   (E)   Enforcement after time to correct. After the time has expired to
correct a violation, including any extension(s) if authorized by the Storm
Water Administrator, the Storm Water Administrator shall determine if the
violation is corrected. If the violation is not corrected, the Storm Water
Administrator may act to impose one or more of the remedies and penalties
authorized by this chapter.
   (F)   Emergency enforcement. If delay in correcting a violation would
seriously threaten the effective enforcement of this chapter or pose an
immediate danger to the public health, safety or welfare, then the Storm Water
Administrator may order the immediate cessation of a violation. Any person so
ordered shall cease any violation immediately. The Storm Water Administrator
may seek immediate enforcement, without prior written notice, through any
remedy or penalty authorized by this subchapter.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord., passed 9-13-21)
STORM WATER UTILITY
§ 53.090 FINDINGS.
   (A)   North Carolina G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 16 authorizes the town to acquire,
construct, establish, enlarge, improve, maintain, own, operate and contract for
the operation of storm water management programs designed to protect water
quality by controlling the level of pollutants in, and the quantity and flow of
storm water and structural and natural storm water and drainage systems of all
types.
   (B)   The establishment, by town ordinance, of a Storm Water Services
Utility that shall be called Storm Water Services and accounted for as a
separate enterprise fund and will facilitate the provision of a storm water
management program.
   (C)   North Carolina G.S. § 160A-314 authorizes the Town of Harrisburg to
establish and revise from time to time a schedule of rates and charges to fund
the storm water management program activities including both structural and
natural storm water conveyance and drainage system services provided by the
Storm Water Services Utility.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09)
§ 53.091 PURPOSE.
   This chapter establishes a Storm Water Services Utility as an identified
fiscal and accounting fund for the purpose of comprehensively addressing the
storm water management needs of the town through programs designed to protect
and manage water quality and quantity by controlling the level of pollutants in
storm water runoff, and the quantity and rate of storm water received and
conveyed by structural and natural storm water and drainage systems of all
types. It sets forth a schedule of charges and defines the control, collection
and disbursal of funds including penalties, appeals, exemptions and credits.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09)
§ 53.092 ESTABLISHMENT OF A STORM WATER SERVICES UTILITY AND STORM WATER
SERVICES ENTERPRISE FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a town Storm Water Utility that shall be
responsible for implementing, operating and administrating the town's storm
water management program as defined herein.
   (B)   There is hereby established a town Storm Water Services Enterprise
Fund for the purpose of dedicating and protecting funding applicable to the
responsibilities of the Storm Water Services Utility including, but not limited
to, rents, rates, fees, charges and penalties as may be established after due
notice and a public hearing by the Town Council. Funding may also include other
funds transferred or allocated to the Storm Water Services Utility by the Town
Council. All revenues and receipts of the Storm Water Management Utility shall
be placed in the Storm Water Services Enterprise Fund and all expenses of the
utility shall be paid from the Storm Water Services Enterprise Fund, except
that other revenues, receipts and resources not accounted for in the Storm
Water Services Enterprise Fund may be applied to storm water management
activities as deemed appropriate by the Town Council.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09)
§ 53.093 JURISDICTION.
   The jurisdiction (service area) of the Storm Water Services Utility shall
extend to the corporate limits of the town, including all areas legally annexed
thereto.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09)
§ 53.094 IMPERVIOUS SURFACE AREA AND EQUIVALENT RATE UNIT (ERU).
   (A)   Impervious surface area on a given zoning lot or tract directly
relates to the volume, rate and pollutant loading of storm water runoff
discharged from that zoning lot or tract to the town's structural and natural
drainage systems and facilities. Therefore, impervious surface area shall be
the primary parameter for establishing a rate structure to distribute the cost
of services associated with the operation, repair, improvement and maintenance
of public drainage systems and facilities through a schedule of rates, fees,
charges and penalties related to the operation of a Storm Water Services
Utility and Storm Water Services Enterprise Fund as established in §
53.092.
   (B)   Based on an analysis by the town of impervious surface area on
properties throughout the town, an impervious surface area of 2,000 square feet
shall be designated as one Equivalent Rate Unit (ERU).
(Ord., passed 5-11-09)
§ 53.095 SCHEDULE OF FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The schedule of charges provided in the town’s annual adopted budget
ordinance will apply to storm water fees. These charges will remain in effect
until changed by the Town Council.
   (B)   There will be no service charge for zoning lots or tracts with fewer
than 200 square feet of impervious surface area.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord. passed 8-8-16)
§ 53.096 BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   Method of billing. Billing and collection of the Storm Water Services
Utility service charges and any other rents, rates, fees, charges and penalties
for storm water management services and facilities shall be administered by the
Finance Director.
   (B)   Delinquencies. Storm Water Services Utility service charge billings or
other billings for rents, rates, fees, charges and penalties associated with
the Storm Water Services Utility shall be declared delinquent if not paid on or
before January 5 of the following year that billings are issued. Delinquent
billings shall accumulate additional penalties at the rate established by the
Town Council and shall run from the date of the original billing. This penalty
shall be termed a delinquent payment penalty charge.
   (C)   Appeal of disputed bills and adjustments. If any citizen wishes to
dispute a Storm Water Services Utility service charge billing or any other
rents, rates, fees, charges or penalties adopted pursuant to this section, that
citizen must submit a written appeal within 60 days of receipt of the billing,
stating the reasons for the appeal, and providing information pertinent to the
calculation of the billed charge. A timely appeal shall state the penalty
deadlines. An appeal of a disputed bill shall be filed with the town's Storm
Water Manager for review and disposition. If the citizen is not satisfied with
the disposition of the appeal, the citizen may further appeal the disputed
charge to the Finance Director or designee who shall make the final ruling on
the validity of the appeal.
   (D)   Collection of delinquencies. The administrative remedies provided in
this chapter shall be exhausted before recourse to a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09)
§ 53.097 DISPOSITION OF SERVICE CHARGES AND FEES.
   Storm Water Services Utility service charge and fee revenues shall be
assigned and dedicated solely to the Storm Water Services Enterprise Fund in
the town budget and accounting system, which shall be and remain separate from
other funds, and shall be used only to fund identified storm water management
program activities. The service charges and fees paid to and collected by
virtue of the provision of this section shall not be used for general or other
governmental or proprietary purposes of the town, except to pay for costs
incurred by the town in rendering services associated with the Storm Water
Services Utility.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09)
§ 53.098 CREDITS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Credits. Credits against Storm Water Services Utility service charges
are an appropriate means of adjusting fees, rates, rentals, charges, fines and
penalties, under some circumstances, to account for applicable mitigation
measures. Credit mechanisms may be established by the Town Council and, if
established, the means and measures for identifying, issuing and obtaining
credits will be provided in a credit manual approved by the Town Council. No
exception, credit, offset or other reduction in storm water management service
charges shall be granted based on age, race, tax status, economic status or
religion of the customer, or other condition unrelated to the demand for and
cost of services provided by the Storm Water Services Utility.
   (B)   Exemptions. Except as provided in this section, no public or private
property shall be exempt from Storm Water Services Utility service charges,
with the following exceptions:
      (1)   Public road rights-of-way that have been conveyed to and accepted
for maintenance by the North Carolina Department of Transportation, and that
are available for use by the general public for transportation purposes, shall
be exempt from town Storm Water Services Utility service charges;
      (2)   Public road rights-of-way that have been conveyed to and accepted
for maintenance by the town, and that are available for use by the general
public for transportation purposes, shall be exempt from town Storm Water
Services Utility service charges; and
      (3)   Railroad rights-of-way used for trackage and related appurtenances
shall be exempt from town Storm Water Services Utility service charges.
(Ord., passed 5-11-09)
PET WASTE
§ 53.110 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Elimination of pet waste. This subchapter establishes requirements for
the proper disposal of pet solid waste in the town, so as to protect the public
health, safety and welfare, and to prescribe penalties for failure to comply.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   IMMEDIATE. The pet solid waste is removed at once, without delay.
   OWNER or KEEPER. Any person who shall possess, maintain, house or harbor any
pet or otherwise have custody of any pet, whether or not the owner of such pet.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, company, partnership, firm,
association, or political subdivision of this state subject to municipal
jurisdiction.
   PET. A domesticated animal (other than a disability assistance animal) kept
for amusement or companionship.
   PET SOLID WASTE. Waste matter expelled from the bowels of the pet;
excrement.
   PROPER DISPOSAL. Placement in a designated waste receptacle, or other
suitable container, and discarded in a refuse container which is regularly
emptied by the municipality or some other refuse collector; or disposal into a
system designed to convey domestic sewage for proper treatment and disposal.
   (C)   Requirements for disposal. All pet owners and keepers are required to
immediately and properly dispose of their pet's solid waste deposited on any
property, public or private, not owned or possessed by that person. Disposal of
pet waste in the storm drains is prohibited.
   (D)   Exemptions. Any owner or keeper who requires the use of a disability
assistance animal shall be exempt from the provisions of this section while
such animal is being used for that purpose.
   (E)   Violations and penalty. The town hereby requires all homeowners'
associations and business to maintain a policy to eliminate improper pet waste
disposal to be in compliance with their storm water management permit. All new
development applications shall include in the conditions of rezoning a
condition that the covenants, conditions, and restrictions of the HOA include a
written pet waste policy, and shall be required by this subchapter to maintain
pet waste stations throughout any new residential developments.
(Ord., passed 9-13-21)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
71.   PARKING
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   STATE-MAINTAINED ROADS
      
74.   GOLF CARTS ON PUBLIC STREETS
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
   
70.01   Restricting movement of trucks and trailers on certain streets
   
70.02   Traffic and parking citations
   
70.03   Administration by County Sheriff's Department
   
70.04   Speed limits
   
70.05   Fire lanes
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 RESTRICTING MOVEMENT OF TRUCKS AND TRAILERS ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a heavy truck, trailer
or other vehicle on any local or secondary city street in any subdivision or
residential section or development complex within the town limits, when such
truck or vehicle is loaded beyond 5,000 pounds per wheel; dual wheels shall be
considered as one wheel load and one contact area, and any truck or vehicle
using local or secondary streets shall be limited to six dual wheels (three
rear axles).
   (B)   Local streets and secondary streets shall mean paved streets or roads
designed to carry very little traffic and limited to residential areas where
heaviest wheel loads expected are passenger vehicles and light trucks.
   (C)   All two-axle trucks, three-axle trucks and tractor-trailer trucks are
hereby prohibited from traveling on the streets or parts of streets designated
by Town Council from time to time and recorded on the town's traffic-control
map of the town; except, however, such trucks may travel on such streets or
parts of streets when necessary to load or unload commodities or materials at a
destination on the street; also, emergency vehicles answering calls on such
street are exempt from this section. Signs are to be posted at appropriate
points and turns on streets on which trucks are prohibited, stating that
through truck traffic is prohibited.
(Ord. 508, passed 11-11-85) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 TRAFFIC AND PARKING CITATIONS.
   An appropriate traffic or parking citation shall be issued by any authorized
law enforcement official for any traffic or parking violation.
§ 70.03 ADMINISTRATION BY COUNTY SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT.
   The town has entered into a contract with the Cabarrus County Sheriff's
Department for the law enforcement of this Traffic Code, which contract is
hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.
§ 70.04 SPEED LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of 25 miles per hour
upon any town street or portions of any town street, not a part of the State
Highway System, within the corporate limits unless otherwise posted (see
Chapter 72 Schedule I).
(Ord. 401, passed 3-11-91; Am. Ord. 2013-01, passed 1-14-13)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 FIRE LANES.
   (A)   The Chief of the Town of Harrisburg Fire Department, with the
assistance of the Harrisburg Fire Marshal, shall designate to the Public Works
Director of the town the location of one or more fire lanes within the town,
where, in the joint opinion of the Chief and the Fire Marshal, such fire lanes
are necessary to ensure the safety of the public.
   (B)   The Public Works Director shall mark such designated fire lanes on the
ground with the words "Fire Lane" and shall erect "No Parking" signs next to
the fire lanes.
   (C)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in a designated fire
lane that has been appropriately marked except that the driver of a passenger
vehicle
may temporarily stop for the sole purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading passengers, when such stopping does not interfere with
existing traffic or the utilization of emergency vehicles.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation in whose name such vehicle is then
registered or licensed shall be subject to a civil penalty of $25.
   (E)   Parking violations included in this section shall be delinquent after
the fifteenth day from the issuance of the citation; thereafter the following
civil penalties shall apply to the foregoing parking violations, in addition to
the stated penalty:
   Delinquent Period            Additional Penalty 
   (1)   Sixteen (16) or more days
      delinquent on $25.00 penalty          $50
   (2)   Thirty-one (31) or more days
      delinquent on $25.00 penalty         $100
   (F)   This violation and any delinquent penalty are not subject to the
penalty provisions of G.S. § 14-4, but instead constitute civil penalties to be
recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of debt when the violator
does not pay the penalty within the prescribed period of time set forth above,
pursuant to G.S. § 160a-175(c).
   (G)   Should any officer with authority to issue a citation pursuant to this
section encounter a vehicle in violation of this section that is unattended or
the driver of which refuses to move the vehicle after being requested to do so,
such officer may remove the vehicle from the fire lane to the nearest garage or
place of safety, with the cost of such removal and storage to be paid by the
vehicle owner.
(Ord. passed 11-10-97)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   If any person shall violate any provision of this Traffic Code, he or she
shall be responsible for an infraction and shall be required to pay a penalty
of not more than $50 as set forth in G.S. § 14-4(b).
CHAPTER 71: PARKING
Section
   
71.01   Parking of motor trucks or trailers on streets and street rights-of-way
   
71.02   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited; no signs required
   
71.03   Parking not to obstruct traffic
   
71.04   Parking in alleys
   
71.05   Standing or parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
71.06   Parking adjacent to schools
   
71.07   Manner of parking
   
71.08   All night parking
   
71.09   Parking in handicapped parking space
   
71.10   Standing in curb loading zones
§ 71.01 PARKING OF MOTOR TRUCKS OR TRAILERS ON STREETS AND STREET RIGHTS-OF-
WAY.
   All motor truck carriers operating as either common or contract carriers
over regular or irregular routes, all passenger bus carriers, and all other
owners of motor trucks or trailers of any kind, including house trailers, whose
trucks, truck-trailers, trailers, semitrailers, house trailers or buses at any
time are operated into, out of, through, or within the corporate limits of the
town and the drivers and operators of any such vehicles shall use private
property for parking and storing those vehicles within the corporate limits,
and they are hereby prohibited from using the public streets or rights-of-way
of streets of the town except for the purposes of travel and transporting,
loading and unloading passengers and freight, and except for temporary parking
in cases of emergency involving a mechanical breakdown necessitating repairs to
any such vehicle. Provided that the provisions of this section shall not apply
to trucks of 3/4-ton capacity or less.
(Ord. 505, passed 3-14-83) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED; NO SIGNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the
directions of a police officer or traffic-controlled device, in any of the
following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk;
   (B)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (C)   Within an intersection;
   (D)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (E)   On a crosswalk;
   (F)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
   (G)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign, or
traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
   (H)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of point
on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless signs or
markings indicate a different length;
   (I)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
   (J)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on the
side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station;
   (K)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (L)   On a roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb
of a street;
   (M)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway;
   (N)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
(Ord. 402, passed 9-9-91) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 PARKING NOT TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street, other than an alley, in such
a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than 22 feet of
width of roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 402, passed 9-9-91) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stop,
stand, or park a vehicle within an alley, in such position as to block the
driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Ord. 402, passed 9-9-91) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.05 STANDING OR PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand or park a vehicle upon any
street of the town for the principal purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying for sale;
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, except repairs made
necessary by a bona fide emergency;
   (C)   Storing by garages, dealers or other persons when such storing is not
incident to the bona fide use and operation of such automobile or other
vehicle; or
   (D)   Storing of any detached trailer or van when the towing unit has been
disconnected or for the purpose of transferring merchandise or freight from one
vehicle to another.
(Ord. 402, passed 9-9-91) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.06 PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS.
   When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon either side of a
street adjacent to any school property as authorized herein, no person shall
park a vehicle in any such designated place.
(Ord. 402, passed 9-9-91) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.07 MANNER OF PARKING.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement
and with the right- hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or
edge of the roadway except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 402, passed 9-9-91) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.08 ALL NIGHT PARKING.
   No person shall park a vehicle on any street between the hours of 1:00 a.m.
and 6:00 a.m. of any day.
(Ord. 402, passed 9-9-91) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.09 PARKING IN HANDICAPPED PARKING SPACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to without privilege park or leave
standing a vehicle in a space designated for handicapped and visually impaired
persons in accordance with G.S. § 20-37.6 (e) (1).
(Ord. 402, passed 9-9-91) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.10 STANDING IN CURB LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup
and loading of materials in any place marked as a curb loading zone during
hours when the provisions appli cable to such zones are in effect. In no case
shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 15 minutes.
   (B)   The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place
marked as a curb loading zone for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading and unloading passengers when such stopping does not interfere with any
motor vehicle used for the transportation of materials that is waiting to enter
or about to enter such zone.
(Ord. 402, passed 9-9-91) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I: SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The Town Council has determined upon the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation conducted jointly with the State Department of
Transportation, pursuant to G.S. 20-141 (f) and (g), that the statutory
standard speed limitations provided by G.S. 20-141(b) are greater in some
instances and less in other instances than is reasonable or safe under the
conditions existing upon certain streets or portions of streets within the
corporate limits of the town constituting portions of the State Highway System.
(Ord., 400, passed - - )
   (B)   (1)   Twenty-five mile per hour speed limitations upon certain state
highway streets. It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of 25
miles per hour upon the following streets or portions of streets within the
corporate limits, being located upon the State Highway System:
Street Between Ord. No. Date Passed
Street Between Ord. No.                                            Date Passed
Autumn Drive   -                                                   -   9-9-02
Hudson Drive   -                                                   -   10-14-02
Morris Drive   -                                                   -   8-1-02
               From a point 300 feet west of Robinson Avenue (SR
               1166) to a point 450 feet east of Robinson Avenue,
N.C. 49        in effect at Harrisburg Elementary School from 30   1   5-12-86
               minutes before to 30 minutes after school begins
               and ends on school days only.
               From a point 450 feet east of Robinson Avenue (SR
               1166) to the eastern corporate limit, at Roberta
N.C. 49        Mill Road (SR 1304) at Harrisburg Elementary School 6   5-12-86
               from 30 minutes before to 30 minutes afterschool
               begins and ends on school days only.
Plaza Drive    -                                                   -   8-1-02
School Avenue  -                                                   -   8-1-02
 
      (2)   Thirty-five mile per hour speed limitations upon certain state
highway streets. It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of 35
miles per hour upon the following streets or portions of streets within the
corporate limits, being located upon the State Highway System:
 
Street Between                 Ord. No.                          Date Passed
                               From the southern corporate
Hickory Ridge Road (SR 1138)   limit, approximately 1050 feet    400   10-8-73
                               south of Stallings Road (SR 1161)
                               to School Circle (SR 1163)
                               From N.C. 49 to the northern
Morehead Road (SR 1300)        corporate limit, approximately    400   10-8-73
                               500 feet north of Patricia Avenue
                               (SR 1485)
                               From Millbrook Road (SR 1182),
N.C. 49                        eastward to a point 650 feet west -   9-14-09
                               of Morehead Road (SR 1300)
                               From the corporate limit,
Robinson Church Road (SR 1166) approximately 350 feet south of   400    10-8-73
                               Stallings Road (SR 1161) to N.C.
                               49
                               From Hickory Ridge Road (SR 1138)
School Circle (SR 1163)        to the eastern corporate limit,   400    10-8-73
                               approximately 425 feet east of
                               Hickory Ridge Road (SR 1138)
                               From Robinson Church Road (SR
                               1166) to the eastern corporate
Stallings Road (SR 1161)       limit, approximately 1300 feet    400    10-8-73
                               east of Hickory Ridge Road (SR
                               1138)
 
      (3)   Forty-five mile per hour speed limitations upon certain state
highway streets. It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of 45
miles per hour upon the following streets or portions of streets within the
corporate limits, being located upon the State Highway System:
 
Street Between Ord. No.                                          Date Passed
               From the western corporate limit, at Cedar Drive,
N.C. 49        eastward to a point 300 feet west of Robinson     2    12-9-74
               Avenue
               From a point 450 feet east of Robinson Avenue (SR
N.C. 49        1166) to the eastern corporate limit, at Roberta  6    5-12-86
               Mill Road (SR 1304)
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73: STATE-MAINTAINED ROADS
Section
   
73.01   Road closures on state-maintained roads
§ 73.01 ROAD CLOSURES ON STATE-MAINTAINED ROADS.
   The town may regulate all State of North Carolina maintained roads within
the town limits to the fullest extent allowed by G.S. § 20-169. For town-
sponsored events to be held in whole or in part on state-maintained roads, the
town shall be permitted to dose or alter the rules of the road once the town
notifies the North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT) of its event
and the state-owned road areas impacted and no conflict with State activity on
the affected road exists. The town shall be responsible for and shall regulate
all signage, traffic control, debris and litter removal and other matters
related to the event. This provision shall also apply to bicycle racing to the
extent permitted by G.S. § 20-171.2. For events sponsored by persons other than
the town, the sponsoring person must obtain approval from NCDOT and the town no
later than 30 days before the proposed event.
(Ord. passed 3-4-16)
CHAPTER 74: GOLF CARTS ON PUBLIC STREETS
Section
   
74.01   Purpose
   
74.02   Definitions
   
74.03   Rules and regulations
   
74.04   Registration, inspection and fee prior to usage
   
74.05   Enforcement
§ 74.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter shall be to establish a golf cart ordinance
within the town to promote the health, safety and welfare of persons operating
cart(s) within the town and to protect the safety of their passengers and other
users of roads.
(Ord. passed 3-12-18)
§ 74.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER'S LICENSE. A valid license issued to operate a motor vehicle issued
by North Carolina or any other state.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart in an
amount not less than required by North Carolina law for motor vehicles operated
on public highways in the State of North Carolina.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle designed and manufactured for operation on a golf
course for sporting or recreational purposes and is not capable of exceeding
speeds of 20 miles per hour.
(G.S. § 20-4.01 (12a))
   OPERATOR. Only persons over 16 years of age and holding a valid driver's
license may operate a golf cart on roads.
(Ord. passed 3-12-18)
§ 74.03 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   This chapter is to establish guidance in the interest of public safety.
   (A)   Golf carts shall not be operated on or alongside a public road or
street with a posted speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour.
   (B)   Golf carts may cross a road with a posted speed limit greater than 35
miles per hour. However, once this segment of road has been transversed, the
golf cart is still required to travel only on or along a roadway with a speed
limit of 35 miles per hour or less. Golf carts must cross in a manner that is
the most direct route in order to decrease crossing distance, i.e. no riding
along a road or crossing at an angle. Under no circumstance is a golf cart
allowed to cross a control access facility other than at bridges which cross
over or under a control access facility.
   (C)   Any person who operates a golf cart must be responsible for all
liability associated with operation of the golf cart and must have liability
insurance coverage which will cover the use of a golf cart in an amount not
less than required by North Carolina law for motor vehicles operated on public
highways in the State of North Carolina.
   (D)   Any person who operates a golf cart must be at least 16 years of age
or older. No person may operate a golf cart unless that person is licensed to
drive upon the public streets, roads and highways of North Carolina and then,
only in accordance with such valid driver's license. Golf cart operators must
carry their driver's license on their person at all times while operating a
golf cart on public roads.
   (E)   Any person who operates a golf cart on public streets and roads must
adhere to all applicable state and local laws, regulations and ordinances,
including but not limited to those banning the possession and use of alcoholic
beverages, and all other illegal drugs. In addition, no golf cart containing
any open container of alcohol shall be operated on public roads.
   (F)   The operator of the golf cart shall comply with all traffic rules and
regulations adopted by the State of North Carolina and the town which governs
the operation of motor vehicles.
   (G)   An operator may not allow the number of people in the golf cart at any
one time to exceed the maximum capacity specified by the manufacturer. The
operator shall not allow passengers to ride on any part of a golf cart not
designed to carry passengers, such as the part of the golf cart designed to
carry golf bags.
   (H)   In no instance shall a golf cart be operated at a speed greater than
20 miles per hour. No golf cart may be operated at a speed greater than
reasonable and prudent for the existing conditions.
   (I)   Golf carts must be operated at the right edge of the roadway and must
yield to all vehicular and pedestrian traffic. If a mechanical turn signal
indicator is not installed, then hand signals are required for turns.
   (J)   Golf carts must park in designated spaces in such a manner that
multiple golf carts can utilize the space. All parking rules and limits apply.
No parking on sidewalks is allowed.
   (K)   Golf carts must have basic equipment supplied by the manufacturer,
including a vehicle identification or serial number. Golf carts must also have
the following safety equipment:
      (1)   Rear view mirror;
      (2)   Reflective triangle affixed to the rear;
      (3)   Rubber tires that are in good condition;
      (4)   Reflector, or reflector tape, affixed to front and both sides;
      (5)   Carts may be lifted, but no more than 22 inches from the ground to
the floor board.
   (L)   Golf carts without lights may be operated only during daylight hours.
Golf carts meeting the requirements set forth below may operate at any time.
Golf carts having two operating headlights, one on each side of the front of
the golf cart and two operating tail lights, one on each side of the rear of
the cart, all four lights must be visible from a distance of 500 feet.
   (M)   Golf carts may not operate on, or cross, the following roads/streets/
highways:
      (1)   Highway 49/University City Blvd.;
      (2)   Highway 29/Concord Parkway;
      (3)   Stallings Road;
      (4)   Hickory Ridge Road;
      (5)   Rocky River Road;
      (6)   Roberta Road;
      (7)   Caldwell Road;
      (8)   Tom Query Road;
      (9)   Robinson Church Road;
      (10)   Phar Mill Road;
      (11)   Harrisburg Veterans Road;
      (12)   Plaza Road Extension;
      (13)   Farmington Ridge Parkway.
(Ord. passed 3-12-18)
§ 74.04 REGISTRATION, INSPECTION AND FEE PRIOR TO USAGE.
   (A)   All golf carts must complete a golf cart registration application and
submit to the Harrisburg Planning and Zoning for approval. Before driving on
public roads, the operator of a golf cart must have a valid issued
registration.
   (B)   A golf cart registration fee of $20 is due upon application to the
town.
   (C)   Each owner must have proof of ownership, and liability insurance, and
a completed waiver of liability, releasing the town from liability that may
arise as a result of operation of a golf cart inside the town. These documents
must be in the golf cart at all times while in operation on public roads.
   (D)   All golf carts must meet the requirements or minimum standards of
safety equipment as set forth above in this chapter.
   (E)   All golf cart operators must present a valid driver's license while
operating a golf cart on a public road.
   (F)   The registration sticker shall be valid for one year and expires on
December 31. The registration sticker must be visible on a golf cart operated
on a public road.
   (G)   Lost or stolen permit/decals are the responsibility of the owner and
must be replaced before the golf cart is operated on a public road.
(Ord. passed 3-12-18)
§ 74.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute an
infraction in accordance with G.S. Chapter 20, the maximum penalty for which
shall be $50.
   (B)   Violation of motor vehicle law is enforceable by North Carolina
statutes, as is with any other type of motor vehicle.
   (C)   Cart registration cards and decals are the property of the town.
Violations of this chapter, or other motor vehicle laws, or failure to produce
registration and insurance information can result in immediate revocation by a
Cabarrus County Sheriff's Deputy or town Code Enforcement Officer, or their
designee. Revocation of registration card renders the cart unlawful for street
operation in the town for the calendar year.
(Ord. passed 3-12-18)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
    Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
91.   NOISE CONTROL
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   ANIMALS AND FOWL
      
95.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
96.   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
97.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
98.   HOUSING CODE
      
99.   URBAN ARCHERY DEER SEASON
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Abandonment of motor vehicles on public streets
   
90.03   Exterior storage of nonoperating vehicles
   
90.04   Removal and disposal of junked and abandoned motor vehicles
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. One that:
      (1)   Has been left upon a street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours;
      (3)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant, or lessee thereof for longer than two hours; or
      (4)   Is left on any public street or highway for longer than seven days.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it was
originally intended to move;
      (3)   Is more than five years old and worth less than $100 or is more
than five years old and worth less than $500 dollars as provided by the
municipality in an ordinance adopted under this section; or
      (4)   Does not display a current license plate and state motor vehicle
inspection.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Includes all machines designed or intended to travel over
land or water by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled
vehicle.
(G.S. § 160A-303(b)) (Ord. 504, passed 3-14-83; Am. Ord. passed 6-13-05)
§ 90.02 ABANDONMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES ON PUBLIC STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon any motor vehicle on the
public streets or rights-of-way of public streets within the town, or on
private or public property within the town. A violation of this section is
punishable as a misdemeanor.
(G.S. § 160A-303(a)) (Ord. 504, passed 3-14-83; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 EXTERIOR STORAGE OF NONOPERATING VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person in charge of or in control of premises, whether as owner,
lessee, tenant, occupant or otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled,
wrecked, junked, discarded or otherwise nonoperating motor vehicle to remain on
such property longer than 30 days; and no person shall leave any such vehicle
on any property within the city for a longer time than 30 days; except that
this section shall not apply with regard to any vehicle in an enclosed building
or so located upon the premises as not to be readily visible from any public
place or from any surrounding private property.
   (B)   This section shall further not apply with regard to any vehicle on the
premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place, other than in a
residential district, and operated in a lawful manner, when the keeping or
maintenance of such vehicle is necessary to the operation of such business
enterprise; or with regard to a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or
depository maintained in a lawful place and manner by the town or any other
public agency or entity. A violation of this section is punishable as a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 507, passed 10-14-85; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF JUNKED AND ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   This chapter may be enforced by removing and disposing of junked or
abandoned motor vehicles according to the procedures prescribed in G.S. § 160A-
303.
(Ord. 504, passed 3-14-83)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   In addition to any other remedies cited in this code of
ordinances for the enforcement of the provisions of this code of ordinances,
the regulations and standards contained in this code of ordinances may be
enforced through the issuance of citations by the designated town official.
These citations shall be in the form of a civil penalty. The town may recover
this penalty in a civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender does not
pay the penalty within 72 hours after being cited for a violation. In addition,
failure to pay the civil penalty within 72 hours may subject the violator to
criminal charges, in accordance with G.S. § 14-4 and shall be considered a
misdemeanor with a fine in an amount not to exceed $500 for each offense. The
following civil penalties are established for violations under this section:
         (a)   Warning citations: correct violation within ten days.
         (b)   First citation, $25.
         (c)   Second citation for same offense, $100.
         (d)   Third and subsequent citation for same offense, $200.
      (2)   These civil penalties are in addition to any other penalties which
may be imposed by a court for violation of the provisions of this code of
ordinances.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing enforcement provisions, this chapter may
be enforced by any remedy provided in G.S. § 160A-175 including, but not
limited to, all appropriate equitable remedies issued from a court of complete
jurisdiction as provided in G.S. § 160A-175(e). This section specifically
provides that each day's continuing violation shall be a separate and distinct
offense.
(Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22)
CHAPTER 91: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
91.01   Loud and unnecessary noises prohibited
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 LOUD AND UNNECESSARY NOISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to create or
assist in creating any unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise in
the town. Noise of such character, intensity and duration as to be detrimental
to the public health, welfare and peace is hereby prohibited.
   (B)   The following acts, among others, are hereby declared to be loud,
disturbing and unnecessary noises in violation of this section, but said
enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile,
motorcycle, bus or other vehicle, except as a danger signal, so as to create
any unreasonable loud or harsh sound, or the sounding of such device for an
unnecessary and unreasonable period of time.
      (2)   The playing of any radio, phonograph or other musical instrument in
such manner or with such volume, particularly during the hours between 11:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any
person in any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence.
      (3)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so out of repair,
so loaded or in such manner as to create loud or unnecessary grating, grinding,
rattling or other noise.
      (4)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler,
except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of
danger.
      (5)   The conducting, operating, or maintaining of any garage or service
station in any residential area so as to cause loud or offensive noises to be
emitted therefrom between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays or
on Sundays.
      (6)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning or court while the same are in session, or
within 150 feet of any hospital, which unreasonably and unneces-sarily
interferes with the working of such institutions, provided conspicuous signs
are displayed in such streets indicating that such area is a school, court or
hospital area.
      (7)   The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration or
repair of any building in a residential or business district other than between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., except in the case of urgent necessity in
the interest of public safety and then only with a permit from the Building
Inspector, which permit may be renewed for a period of three days or less while
the emergency continues.
      (8)   The shouting and crying of peddlers, barkers, hawkers and vendors
which disturbs the quiet and peace of the neighborhood. A violation of this
section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 503, passed 7-11-77; Am. Ord. passed 4-8-96; Am. Ord., passed 11-9-15;
Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter may be enforced as a misdemeanor in accordance
with G.S. § 14-4 with a fine in an amount not to exceed $500 for each offense.
(Ord. passed 4-8-96; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Public nuisance
   
92.02   Property owners to keep weeds, grass and the like cut
   
92.03   Investigation
   
92.04   Notice to abate
   
92.05   Removal by town upon failure or refusal to obey notice
   
92.06   Cost of removal to be charged to owners
   
92.07   Unpaid charges to be lien on property
   
92.08   Provisions of chapter cumulative
   
92.09   Fencing around swimming pools
§ 92.01 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The existence of any of the following conditions on any vacant lot or other
parcel of land within the corporate limits is hereby declared to be dangerous
and prejudicial to the public health or safety and to constitute a public
nuisance:
   (A)   The uncontrolled growth of noxious weeds or grass causing or
threatening to cause a hazard detrimental to the public health or safety.
   (B)   Any accumulation of rubbish, trash or junk causing or threatening to
cause the accumulation of stagnant water, or causing or threatening to cause
the inhabitation therein of rats, mice, snakes or vermin of any kind which is
or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public health.
   (C)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors or by the inhabitance therein of rats, mice, snakes
or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health.
   (D)   Any condition detrimental to the public health which violates the
rules and regulations of the County Health Department or town.
(Ord. 502, passed 2-9-76; Am. Ord. passed 2-11- 80; Am. Ord. passed 3-8-93)
§ 92.02 PROPERTY OWNERS TO KEEP WEEDS, GRASS AND THE LIKE CUT.
   (A)   Every owner or occupant of any lot within the corporate limits shall
keep the lot free and clear of all weeds and rank vegetation, once the lot has
been cleared and cleaned or has been developed. Trash and debris will not be
allowed to accumulate on any lot inside the corporate limits. Heavy weed and
rank vegetation growth will be limited to 12 inches from the ground. All heavy
weeds and other rank vegetation on lots previously cleared and/or developed
shall be limited to 12 inches from the ground.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to trespass on the rights of
another through the neglect of property by causing or allowing unsightly
litter, weeds, grass, trash, foul odor, dead animals, junk, unsecured
appliances or potentially dangerous devices to remain on, or to emanate from
property within the corporate limits of the town.
   (C)   Exceptions to the cutting of vegetation growth will include but not be
limited to the following:
      (1)   Lots which have not been cleared or cleaned for future development
(perimeters of these lots are not to be excluded).
      (2)   Vegetable gardens in current usage.
      (3)   Flower gardens in current usage.
(Ord. 502, passed 2-9-76; Am. Ord. passed 2-11- 80; Am. Ord. passed 3-8-93; Am.
Ord. passed 10- 14-13)
§ 92.03 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If any person, after having received a written notice from the town,
shall fail to comply with the order within ten days after having received such
notice, to clear the lot of any such weeds, rank vegetation, trash and debris,
then such person shall be in violation of this chapter.
   (B)   The administration and enforcement of this chapter shall be the duty
of the Town Council. The Town Council and/or its appointed Enforcement Officer,
upon receipt of a complaint concerning weeds, rank vegetation, trash and debris
shall request an investigation by the appropriate Town Enforcement Officer.
This investigation will be required to determine whether the reported condition
violates the Public Nuisances Ordinance as declared in §
92.01. The Town Council or its appointed Enforcement Officer has the authority
to remove, abate or remedy everything in the town limits that is considered by
the ordinance to be either dangerous or prejudicial to the public health or
which has been declared to a be a nuisance.
(Ord. 502, passed 2-9-76; Am. Ord. passed 2-11- 80; Am. Ord. passed 3-8-93)
§ 92.04 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   If upon completion of the investigation it is determined that such
conditions exist that violate the Public Nuisance Ordinance, the Town Council
and/or its appointed Enforcement Officer shall notify the owner in writing. The
notice will contain the conditions that exist which violate this chapter and
the owner will have ten days from the date of the notice to comply with this
chapter and to correct violations as specified. The notice shall be sent by
certified mail to the address of the owner deemed to be current on the town tax
card and shall constitute a warning violation.
(Ord. 502, passed 2-9-76; Am. Ord. passed 2-11- 80; Am. Ord. passed 3-8-93)
§ 92.05 REMOVAL BY TOWN UPON FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO OBEY NOTICE.
   If any owner of property, having been notified by certified mail at the
current address shown on the town tax card to abate such a public nuisance,
fails, neglects or refuses to abate or remove the condition constituting the
nuisance within 15 days from receipt of the order, the Town Council and/or its
appointed Enforcement Officer, can cause the condition to be removed or
otherwise abate the nuisance under the supervision of any officers or employees
designated by the Town Council. Any owner who has been ordered to abate a
public nuisance may within 15 days request the Town Council in writing to
remove those condition, the cost of which shall be paid by the owner of the
property. It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere, harass, or
otherwise impede a town employee who is carrying out or acting within the scope
of his duties when conducting an investigation and when carrying out the
enforcement of this chapter after a notice of violation has been issued, and
the time for compliance has expired.
(Ord. 502, passed 2-9-76; Am. Ord. passed 2-11- 80; Am. Ord. passed 3-8-93)
§ 92.06 COST OF REMOVAL TO BE CHARGED TO OWNERS.
   The actual cost incurred by the Town Council in removing or otherwise
remedying a public nuisance shall be charged to the owner of such lot or parcel
of land, and it shall be the duty of the Tax Collector to mail a statement of
such charges to the owner or other person in possession of such premises with
instructions that such charges are due and payable within 30 days from the
receipt thereof.
(Ord. 502, passed 2-9-76; Am. Ord. passed 2-11- 80; Am. Ord. passed 3-8-93)
§ 92.07 UNPAID CHARGES TO BE LIEN ON PROPERTY.
   If the owner fails to reimburse the town for the cost of remedying the
public nuisance, within thirty days, after receipt of a statement or charges as
provided for in §
92.06, the Town Council and/or its appointed Enforcement Officer shall have the
authority to place a statutory notice of lien against the property for the cost
of bringing the property into compliance with the ordinance (G.S. § 160A-93).
The Town Council shall also be authorized to cancel any notice of lien filed
that has been satisfied or is a clerical error. A property owner can challenge
the filing of a lien by appeal to the Town Council within 30 days of receipt of
the written notice of violation. The Town Council has the authority to cancel
the lien if the alleged violation of this chapter was in error or did not
exist. All proceeds received from the collection of penalties shall be
deposited in the general fund.
(Ord. 502, passed 2-9-76; Am. Ord. passed 2-11- 80; Am. Ord. passed 3-8-93)
§ 92.08 PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER CUMULATIVE.
   The procedure set forth in this chapter shall be in addition to any other
remedies that may now or hereafter exist under the law for the abatement of
public nuisances and this chapter shall not prevent the Town Council from
proceeding in a criminal misdemeanor action against any person, firm or
corporation violating the provisions of this chapter as provided in G.S. § 14-
4, with a maximum fine of $500.
(Ord. 502, passed 2-9-76; Am. Ord., passed 2-11-80; Am. Ord., passed 3- 8-93;
Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22)
§ 92.09 FENCING AROUND SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Swimming pools are allowed as an accessory use to a residence or
business provided that the swimming pool meets all zoning requirements then in
force for the property on which the swimming pool is located. Any swimming pool
shall be separated from adjacent properties and streets by a semi-open or a
closed fence or wall at least four feet in height. Fences surrounding swimming
pools shall be designed in order to minimize the possibility of unauthorized or
unwary persons entering the pool area.
   (B)   For a semi-open fence, the openings shall be of limited size as not to
allow a human or domestic animal to be able to pass through the fence. The
fence or wall may be constructed of wood masonry or similar materials or by
chainlink, wrought iron or similar fencing.
(Ord. passed 3-15-99)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   If any owner fails to bring the property into compliance within 15
days of the written notice of violation the Town Council shall have the
authority to fine the owner in an amount not to exceed fines as specified in
this chapter.
   (B)   In addition to the other remedies cited in §§
92.05 and
92.06 for the enforcement of its provisions, and pursuant to G.S. § 14-4, the
regulations and standards in this chapter may be enforced through the issuance
of civil penalties by the town.
   (C)   If the offender does not correct those conditions cited in the warning
notice within 15 days and does not seek appeal to the action of the Town
Council, the Town Council and/or its appointed Enforcement Officer may issue
subsequent citations and penalties to the property owner or occupant. Once the
15 day warning period has expired, each day which the violation continues may
subject the violator to additional citations and penalties to be issued by the
Town Council or its appointed Enforcement Officer.
   (D)   The following penalties are established:
 
Warning Citation                        Fine if Violation Corrected Within 15
                                        Days
First citation for same offense         $100
Second citation for same offense        250
Third and subsequent citations for same 500
offense
 
   (E)   If the offender fails to pay the civil penalties within 30 days after
having been cited, the town may file an action with the court to recover the
penalties indicated in the civil action regarding the nature of the debt.
   (F)   In addition, pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175, the town may, through the
courts, seek an amendatory or prohibitory injunction and an order of abatement
commanding the offender to correct the unlawful condition upon the subject
premises.
   (G)   Should the town be forced to seek litigation through the courts in
order to have the nuisance abated and corrected, the town reserves the right to
request from the court that all legal fees, court costs and incurred expenses
connected with the case be paid by the offender.
   (H)   Records of all citations shall be maintained so that all such forms
shall be capable of being accounted for. The Town Clerk shall maintain all
records.
   (I)   The town will send one annual notice to chronic violators of overgrown
vegetation per certified or registered mail. The town without further notice
will take action to remedy the violation and the expense of the action shall
become a lien upon the property and shall be collected as unpaid taxes. In
addition, the town shall impose a civil penalty of $500 per action and any
other remedies allowed per this section.
(Am. Ord. passed 3-8-93; Am. Ord., passed 10-14- 13)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Cross-Visibility Obstructions at
Street Intersections
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Installation or maintenance of natural growths or obstructions
prohibited
   
93.03   Appropriate traffic-control devices marked
   
93.04   Abatement procedure
   
93.05   Administration; enforcement
   
93.06   Exceptions
   
93.07   Most stringent provisions to apply
Structures and Obstructions
   
93.10   Structures
   
93.11   Obstructions
   
93.12   Removal of dirt and debris on streets and sidewalks
Acceptance and Improvement of
Public Streets
   
93.20   Policy established
   
93.21   Requirements for the acceptance of new streets
   
93.22   Petition for street improvement
   
93.23   Street improvement defined
   
93.24   Street improvement project procedure
   
93.25   Sidewalk improvements
   
93.26   Installation of utilities
   
93.27   Responsibility of property owners
   
93.28   Construction according to specifications
   
93.29   Opening and improving streets without petition
   
93.30   Resurfacing improvements
 
   
93.99   Penalty
CROSS-VISIBILITY OBSTRUCTIONS
AT STREET INTERSECTIONS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any structure, fence, shrub, bush, tree, flower, plant, motor
vehicle or any other object that obscures, impairs or prevents view or sight
through, over and across the sight distance area as defined in this section.
   SIGHT DISTANCE AREA.
      (1)   HORIZONTAL AREA. The area formed by extending lines from point of
intersection of intersecting streets along the centerlines of such streets for
a distance of 40 feet and connecting the ends of such lines by a straight line
to form the base of the triangle. Each of the two sides of this triangle will
be 40 feet in length.
      (2)   VERTICAL AREA. The area between 30 inches and 72 inches above the
horizontal area measured from the level of the point of intersection of the
centerlines of the intersecting streets.
(Ord. 501, passed 2-9-76)
§ 93.02 INSTALLATION OR MAINTENANCE OF NATURAL GROWTHS OR OBSTRUCTIONS
PROHIBITED.
   Within said described area, and except as provided in §
93.06, it shall be unlawful to install, set out or maintain, or to allow the
installation, setting out or maintenance of, any sign, hedge, shrubbery, tree,
natural growth or other obstruction of any kind which obstructs cross-
visibility. A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 501, passed 2-9-76; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 APPROPRIATE TRAFFIC- CONTROL DEVICES MARKED.
   Any intersection at which cross-visibility is obstructed by any obstruction
excepted herefrom by §
93.06, shall be so marked by appropriate traffic-control devices as to provide
for the safety of motorists and pedestrians at such intersection.
(Ord. 501, passed 2-9-76)
§ 93.04 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   Any obstruction to cross-visibility maintained in violation of this chapter
shall be deemed to be a public nuisance inconsistent with and detrimental to
the public safety and shall be abated in accordance with the following
procedure:
   (A)   The Street Commissioners shall cause to be served by certified mail a
written notice and order of abatement upon the owner, tenant or person in
charge of the premises upon which such obstruction exists.
   (B)   Such obstruction shall be removed by the person responsible therefor
within ten days from the date of receipt of such notice and order.
   (C)   Any person receiving such notice and order may, within ten days from
receipt thereof, request in writing a hearing before the Town Council, such
hearing to be held not later than the second regular meeting of the Town
Council following the date of such a request. If, after said hearing, the Town
Council finds that the obstruction in question does in fact constitute a public
nuisance, the Town Council shall order that such nuisance be abated within ten
days from the date of such order. Upon failure by any person to comply with
such an order, the Street Commissioners shall proceed forthwith to remove or
cause the removal of such obstruction and the cost thereof shall be a charge
against the person responsible and shall be a lien against the property from
which such obstruction is removed.
(Ord. 501, passed 2-9-76)
§ 93.05 ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCEMENT.
   The administration of this chapter shall be under the direction of the
Street Commissioners who shall investigate violations, issue such notices and
orders as are required herein and perform such other duties as may be necessary
to the enforcement hereof.
(Ord. 501, passed 2-9-76)
§ 93.06 EXCEPTIONS.
   The foregoing provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Permanent buildings.
   (B)   Existing grades, which, by reason of natural topography, exceed 30
inches above the level of the center of the adjacent intersection; provided,
that no obstruction to cross-visibility not specifically excepted herefrom
shall be installed, set out or maintained on any existing grade which is more
than 30 inches but less than 72 inches above the level of the center of the
adjacent intersection.
   (C)   Trees having limbs and foliage trimmed in such manner that no limbs or
foliage extend into the area between 30 inches and 72 inches above the level of
the center of the adjacent intersection.
   (D)   Fire hydrants, public utility poles, street markers and traffic-
control devices.
(Ord. 501, passed 2-9-76)
§ 93.07 MOST STRINGENT PROVISIONS TO APPLY.
   If the provisions of any other law, ordinance or regulation of the town or
the state shall be in conflict with the provisions of this chapter, the more
stringent provision shall control.
(Ord. 501, passed 2-9-76)
STRUCTURES AND OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 93.10 STRUCTURES.
   No person shall maintain, erect, or permit the erection of any temporary or
permanent building, hut, hotel, shanty, tent, basketball goal, culvert, or
other structure under his or her control upon any street, sidewalk, alley, or
other public way or right-of-way within and under the control of the town and
open to public use, without the express consent of the town. A violation of
this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-14-96; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.11 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, suffer, or permit any
sign, garbage can, box, bale, crate, barrel, stand, frame, cart, basketball
goal, culvert, or other obstruction of any nature upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or right-of-way in the town.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) shall not apply in the following
circumstances:
      (1)   Loading, unloading, moving, or transporting the above-state
materials.
      (2)   Standard covered garbage cans, at the time and places designated by
ordinance or order of the Director of Public Works.
      (3)   In case of a written permit for construction, maintenance,
advertising, peddling, and such other purposes as are provided by ordinance. A
violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-14-96; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.12 REMOVAL OF DIRT AND DEBRIS ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   In the event that dirt, mud, construction materials or other debris shall be
deposited upon any street or sidewalk, the owner of the property from which
that dirt, mud, construction materials or other debris originated shall be
required to remove the debris. A violation of this section is punishable as a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 3-12-18; Am. Ord. passed 4-9-18; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty,
see §
93.99
ACCEPTANCE AND IMPROVEMENT OF
PUBLIC STREETS
§ 93.20 POLICY ESTABLISHED.
   The policy of the town for the acceptance of streets dedicated for public
use and the policy for improving all streets shall be as hereinafter prescribed
in this subchapter.
(Res. passed 9-8-75; Am. Res. passed 11-12-89; Am. Res. passed 3-12-90)
§ 93.21 REQUIREMENTS FOR THE ACCEPTANCE OF NEW STREETS.
   No streets, alley or other public way dedicated for public use within the
town will be accepted by the town as a public street and no maintenance or
improvement will be authorized thereon unless the following requirements have
been complied with.
   (A)   Prior to opening any street, alley or other public way, the property
owner, owners or developer shall submit a preliminary plan to the Town Council
for their approval. Such preliminary plan shall show the location of the
proposed street, alley or other public way, the right-of-way width, all
adjacent property owners, water courses and such other information as the Town
Council may require.
   (B)   Minimum standards for new streets, extensions of existing streets or
alleys for which approval is required shall be as follows:
      (1)   A minimum right-of-way width of 50 feet dedicated for street
purposes. In addition, the Town Council may require a right-of-way width
greater than 50 feet if such street is to be used as a major thoroughfare or
where greater widths are required by a major street plan.
      (2)   A minimum right-of-way of 20 feet for all service alleys.
      (3)   Streets shall conform to the general street plan or major
thoroughfare plan of the town as to location.
      (4)   Streets shall intersect at right angles and the street alignment
shall not change more abruptly than a vertical curve of 1,000 foot radius
except where existing conditions justify a modification of this requirement by
the Town Council.
   (C)   If the street plan is approved the owner, owners or developer shall be
required to make the following improvements at no cost to the town prior to the
town accepting such street or alley as a public street.
      (1)   The right-of-way shall be cleared and graded to its final grade for
the full width of the right-of-way. Grades shall not as far as practical exceed
5%.
      (2)   Streets shall be crowned and adequate street drainage ditches
provided in accordance with the street improvement construction specifications
of the town.
      (3)   Top soil, gravel or other suitable base course material shall be
put in place for a minimum width of 30 feet, which shall be the minimum width
for an improved street. Additional improved street widths may be required for
major thoroughfares by the Town Council. Provided, the improved width of alleys
need not exceed 20 feet.
   (D)   When the requirements of this section have been met to the
satisfaction of the Town Council and the Street Commissioner, the Town Council
may by resolution accept such street or alley for public use.
(Res., passed 9-8-75; Am. Res., passed 11-12-89; Am. Res., passed 3-12-90)
§ 93.22 PETITION FOR STREET IMPROVEMENT.
   From and after the effective date of this subchapter, the town will not
consider paving or otherwise improving any street or alley unless a petition is
presented to the Town Council on forms provided by the town, signed by majority
of the property owners who represent a majority of the lineal footage on the
street proposed to be improved requesting that 70% of the total cost of such
improvement be assessed against the abutting property owners.
(Res., passed 9-8-75; Am. Res., passed 11-12-89; Am. Res., passed 3-12-90)
§ 93.23 STREET IMPROVEMENT DEFINED.
   (A)   Street improvements for all streets which shall be included in the
property owners' petition, the total cost of which shall be assessed against
the abutting property owners, shall include the following:
      (1)   Storm sewer drainage facilities, including drainage pipe
30   inches or less in diameter, inlets and other necessary incidentals as may
be required by town specifications.
      (2)   Curb and gutter as required by town specifications.
      (3)   Grading for a width of 30 feet on those streets which were opened
prior to the effective date of this resolution and which need to be graded
prior to surfacing.
      (4)   Base course material for a width of 30 feet if existing base course
is not adequate in accordance with town specifications.
      (5)   Street surfacing according to town specifications for a width of 30
feet.
   (B)   The improvement costs for street widths in excess of 30 feet, the cost
of required drainage facilities which are larger in size than required herein,
and the total cost of all improvements at street intersections shall not be
assessed against abutting property owners and shall be paid for by the town.
(Res., passed 9-8-75; Am. Res., passed 11-12-89; Am. Res., passed 3-12-90)
§ 93.24 STREET IMPROVEMENT PROJECT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Upon the receipt of a petition for street improvements, the Town Clerk
shall examine the petition and certify as to its sufficiency to the Town
Council. No petition shall be considered for street improvements where streets
have been opened after the effective date of this resolution in violation of §
93.21. In addition no petition shall be considered for a street less than one
normal block in length.
   (B)   If the petition from the property owners is found to be sufficient,
the Town Council shall direct the Town Engineer to estimate the total cost of
the street project in accordance with street specifications, to determine the
total cost per foot of property frontage and the total cost of the town for
intersections and other improvements the cost of which is to be borne by the
town.
   (C)   When cost estimates are received, the Town Council shall consider the
availability of funds for street improvements, the degree of development along
the street proposed to be improved and may approve such street improvement
project as they deem best.
   (D)   When a street improvement project is approved, the property owners
abutting such improvement shall be notified of the total estimated cost per
foot of that each owner has the opportunity to pay his proportionate share in
cash in advance. In addition, the property owners shall be further notified
that the project will not be scheduled or construction work started until 80%
of the total estimated cost of the entire project is deposited with the town.
   (E)   When the required amount has been deposited, with the town, the street
improvement assessment procedure as authorized in G.S. §§ 160-78 through 160-
105 shall be followed and assessments shall be made against the properties
abutting upon such improvement according to an equal rate per front foot.
Property owners who have made a cash deposit in advance as required herein
shall be credited for such payments on the assessment rolls. In accordance with
the requirement of the General Statutes, property owners not paying assessments
in cash in advance shall pay their assessments in five equal annual
installments which shall bear the prevailing interest rate per annum.
   (F)   In event the actual cost of improvements is less than the estimated
cost, such excess shall be refunded to the property owners. In event the actual
cost exceeds the estimated cost the property owners will be assessed for this
amount or may pay such amount in cash in the manner provided by law.
(Res., passed 9-8-75; Am. Res., passed 11-12-89; Am. Res., passed 3-12-90)
§ 93.25 SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS.
   Petitions for street improvements may include requests for sidewalk
improvements in accordance with town specifications. Such sidewalk improvements
may be constructed as part of the street improvement project and in the same
manner except that 100% of the total cost of sidewalk improvements exclusive of
the cost at intersections shall be assessed against the property owner.
(Res., passed 9-8-75; Am. Res., passed 11-12-89; Am. Res., passed 3-12-90)
§ 93.26 INSTALLATION OF UTILITIES.
   The Town Council prior to approving any project or authorizing any street
improvement shall determine if any underground electric or underground
telephone lines are to be installed or water and sanitary sewer facilities have
been installed within that portion of the street located between curbs. If such
facilities are to be installed or if facilities are inadequate and will have to
be replaced, the Town Council shall postpone the street improvement project
pending the installation of such facilities.
(Res., passed 9-8-75; Am. Res., passed 11-12-89; Am. Res., passed 3-12-90)
§ 93.27 RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   Property owners along streets which are surfaced and have curb and
gutter are responsible for replacing any driveway or walkway within the street
right-of-way as a result of new street construction improvements. Driveway
entrances and aprons at the curb line will be constructed by the town at the
location designated by the property owner and the cost thereof will be included
in the total cost assessed for street improvements. Property owners shall be
responsible for seeding, landscaping or otherwise improving the area between
curbs and the property line as they may desire provided no walls or other
permanent structures are located within the street right-of-way.
   (B)   Drainage pipes and other material on the right-of-way at the time of
construction which were purchased by the property owner will be removed and
placed on the lot of the owner for his disposition. The town will haul away
such items if requested by the owner and with owner's permission.
(Res., passed 9-8-75; Am. Res., passed 11-12-89; Am. Res., passed 3-12-90)
§ 93.28 CONSTRUCTION ACCORDING TO SPECIFICATIONS.
   All street grading, base course preparation, storm drainage, surfacing, curb
and gutters, and other improvements shall be constructed in accordance with the
written specification of the town which have been approved by the Town Council.
All work shall be done under the supervision of the Street Commissioner.
(Res., passed 9-8-75; Am. Res., passed 11-12-89; Am. Res., passed 3-12-90)
§ 93.29 OPENING AND IMPROVING STREETS WITHOUT PETITION.
   When in the opinion of the Town Council a new street should be opened and
improved and no petition is filed asking for the assessment of the cost
thereof, and when the Town Council is of the opinion that the public benefit
will be greater than the benefit to abutting property owners, the Town Council
may direct that such improvement be made and the entire cost thereof paid by
the town.
(Res., passed 9-8-75; Am. Res., passed 11-12-89; Am. Res., passed 3-12-90)
§ 93.30 RESURFACING IMPROVEMENTS.
   Whenever it is necessary to resurface any street which has been surfaced
under this policy as herein established, the town will undertake such
resurfacing when funds are appropriated and the town shall bear the entire cost
of such work.
(Res., passed 9-8-75; Am. Res., passed 11-12-89; Am. Res., passed 3-12-90)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   In addition to any other remedies cited in this chapter for the
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter the regulations and standards
contained in this chapter may be enforced through the issuance of citations by
the designated town officials. These citations shall be in the form of a civil
penalty. The town may recover this penalty in a civil action in the nature of a
debt if the offender does not pay the penalty within 72 hours after being cited
for a violation. In addition, failure to pay the civil penalty within 72 hours
may subject the violator to a misdemeanor criminal charge, with a maximum fine
of $500 as provided in G.S. § 14-4. The following civil penalties are
established for violations under this section:
         (a)   Warning citations: correct violation within ten days.
         (b)   First citation, $25.
         (c)   Second citation for same offense, $100.
         (d)   Third and subsequent citation for same offense, $200.
      (2)   These civil penalties are in addition to any other penalties which
may be imposed by a court for violation of the provisions of this code of
ordinances.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing enforcement provisions, this chapter may
be enforced by any remedy provided in G.S. § 160A-175 including, but not
limited to, all appropriate equitable remedies issued from a court of complete
jurisdiction as provided in G.S. § 160A-175(e). This section specifically
provides that each day's continuing violation shall be a separate and distinct
offense.
(Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22)
CHAPTER 94: ANIMALS AND FOWL
Section
   
94.01   County ordinance adopted by reference
   
94.02   [Reserved]
   
94.03   [Reserved]
   
94.04   [Reserved]
   
94.05   [Reserved]
   
94.06   [Reserved]
   
94.07   [Reserved]
   
94.08   Bird sanctuary
 
   94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 COUNTY ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town hereby adopts the Cabarrus County Animal Control Ordinance, as
amended March 19, 1996, and as amended in the future. Copies of the county
ordinance are on file and available for public inspection in the office of the
City Clerk.
(Ord. passed 4-8-96) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.02 [RESERVED].
§ 94.03 [RESERVED].
§ 94.04 [RESERVED].
§ 94.05 [RESERVED].
§ 94.06 [RESERVED].
§ 94.07 [RESERVED].
§ 94.08 BIRD SANCTUARY.
   The area embraced within the corporate limits of the town and all lands
owned by the town outside the corporate limits, is hereby designated as a bird
sanctuary pursuant to G.S. § 160-A-188.
(Ord. 512, passed 9-9-91)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating or failing, refusing or neglecting to comply with any
provision or requirement of any section or subsection of this chapter shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. passed 4-11-22)
CHAPTER 95: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
95.001   Disposal of hot ashes
   
95.002   Interference with Fire Department prohibited
   
95.003   Interference with firemen or apparatus prohibited
   
95.004   Interference with fire alarm prohibited
   
95.005   Giving false fire alarm unlawful
   
95.006   Protection of fire hose
   
95.007   Lots kept free from fire hazards
   
95.008   Parking trucks designed to carry Flammable substances prohibited
   
95.009   Pyrotechnics use
   
95.010   Lock boxes
   
95.011   Emergency access gates and barriers
   
95.012   Vacant premises/unsafe buildings
   
95.013   Open burning
   
95.014   Blasting precautions
   
95.015   Multi-family dwelling fire restrictions
Fire Department
   
95.040   Primary and secondary fire limits established
   
95.041   Organization and composition
   
95.042   [Reserved]
   
95.043   [Reserved]
   
95.044   Investigation of fires and submission of reports
   
95.045   Record of fires to be kept
   
95.046   Complaints to Chief
Fire Prevention Code
   
95.070   Adoption
   
95.071   Fire Prevention Bureau: establishment and duties
   
95.072   Fire Marshal appointment
   
95.073   Penalties
   
95.074   Water supply
   
95.075   Code requirements for fire service water mains, fire hydrants, and
fire connections on private property
   
95.076   Inspection of private hydrants
   
95.077   Fire lanes
   
95.078   Signs and marking
   
95.079   Violations and enforcement
   
95.080   Definitions
   
95.081   Purpose and authority
   
95.082   Response to hazardous materials or substances emergencies — level of
training
   
95.083   Hazardous materials or substances incidents — liability for costs
   
95.084   Responsibility: fees and charges
   
95.085   Reimbursement for hazardous materials or substances emergencies
   
95.086   Collection and disbursement of funds for cost recovery
   
95.087   Fire incidents involving hazardous materials
Emergency Management
   
95.101   Designation of NIMS for emergency management
   
95.102   Submission of Emergency Plan for review
   
95.103   Public assemblages and events
   
95.104   Fire watch
   
95.105   General penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.001 DISPOSAL OF HOT ASHES.
   No person shall empty hot ashes on or near any sweepings, shavings or
inflammable material of any kind with the town limits. A violation of this
section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.002 INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE DEPARTMENT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for persons to congregate on the streets or sidewalks
near a fire in a manner so as to interfere with the activities of the Fire
Department. A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Interfering with firefighters in the performance of their duties, see G.S. §
69-39
§ 95.003 INTERFERENCE WITH FIREMEN OR APPARATUS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall interfere with a firefighter in the discharge of his or her
duty or hinder him or her in the performance of his or her duty, nor shall any
person loiter about any fire station or change, handle, or meddle in any manner
with any fire engine or any other fire apparatus. A violation of this section
is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Willful interference with firefighters, see G.S. § 58-82-1
§ 95.004 INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE ALARM PROHIBITED.
   No person shall interfere or tamper with the fire alarm system or injure the
poles, wires, boxes or other apparatus connected there with. A violation of
this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Molesting fire alarm system, see G.S. § 14-286
§ 95.005 GIVING FALSE FIRE ALARM UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to wantonly and willfully give or cause
to be given, or to advise, counsel, or aid and abet anyone in giving, a false
alarm of fire, or to break the glass key protector, or to pull the slide, arm,
or lever of any station or signal box of any fire alarm system, except in case
of fire. A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Giving false fire alarms, see G.S. § 14-286
§ 95.006 PROTECTION OF FIRE HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful to drive any automobile or other vehicle, however
propelled, over any hose connected with the water line and in use by the Fire
Department for any purpose. A violation of this section is punishable as a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Driving over fire hose, see G.S. § 20-257
§ 95.007 LOTS KEPT FREE FROM FIRE HAZARDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or suffer rubbish, refuse, or
articles of a combustible or inflammable nature to accumulate or remain on any
lot or premises. A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.008 PARKING TRUCKS DESIGNED TO CARRY FLAMMABLE SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or permit to remain standing
upon any street or public alley of the town any transport truck, combination of
truck and trailer, or any other vehicle designed, constructed, or used for the
bulk transportation of gasoline, naphtha, kerosene, distillate oil, or other
inflammable or explosive oil derivatives, whether such truck is empty or
loaded. This section shall not apply while such vehicle is actually engaged in
loading or unloading such cargo in the ordinary course of business. A violation
of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.009 PYROTECHNICS USE.
   (A)   Pyrotechnics defined; exceptions. The term PYROTECHNICS whenever used
in this subchapter shall be deemed to include any and all kinds of fireworks
and explosives which are used for exhibitions or amusement purposes; provided,
however, that nothing contained in this section shall prevent the manufacture,
purchase, sale, transportation, and use of explosives or signaling flares used
in the course of ordinary business or industry, or shells or cartridges used as
ammunition in firearms. This section shall not apply to the sale, use, or
possession of the following:
      (1)   Explosive caps designed to be fired in toy cap pistols, provided
that the explosive mixture of such explosive caps shall not exceed 0.25 of a
gram for each cap.
      (2)   Snake devices consisting of a tube or sphere containing a
pyrotechnic mixture that produces white or colored smoke.
      (3)   Smoke devices consisting of a tube or sphere containing a
pyrotechnic mixture that produces white or colored smoke.
      (4)   Trick noisemakers which produce a small report designed to surprise
the user and which include:
         (a)   A party popper, which is a small plastic or paper item
containing not in excess of 16 milligrams of explosive mixture. A string
protruding from the device is pulled to ignite the device, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report.
         (b)   A string popper, which is a small tube containing not in excess
of 16 milligrams of explosive mixture with string protruding from both ends.
The strings are pulled to ignite the friction-sensitive mixture, producing a
small report.
         (c)   A snapper or drop pop, which is a small, paper wrapped item
containing no more than 16 milligrams of explosive mixture coated on small bits
of sand. When dropped, the device produces a small report.
      (5)   Wire sparklers consisting of a wire or stick coated with
nonexplosive pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks upon
ignition. These items must not exceed 100 grams of mixture per item.
      (6)   Other sparkling devices which emit showers of sparks and sometimes
a whistling or crackling effect when burning, do not detonate or explode, do
not spin, are hand-held or ground-based, cannot propel themselves through the
air, and contain no more than 200 grams if multiple tubes are used.
   (B)   Possession and use of pyrotechnics. No person, without a permit
therefor as provided in division (D) below, shall have in his or her
possession, or cause to be fired, any pyrotechnics within the town limits. A
violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Sale of pyrotechnics. No person shall sell at retail within the town
any pyrotechnics, except to a person holding a permit for a pyrotechnic display
issued under the provisions of division (D) below, nor shall any person sell at
wholesale any pyrotechnics, to be resold in the town, except for an authorized
pyrotechnic display. This section shall not be construed to prevent the sale of
pyrotechnics by wholesale merchants holding a permit therefor, to any merchant
whose place of business is outside the town.
   (D)   Permit for pyrotechnics. No person shall store, sell or use
pyrotechnics without securing a permit. The Chief of the Fire Prevention Bureau
of the Fire Department may, upon due application, issue a permit to a properly
qualified person for giving a display of fireworks in the public parks or other
places within the town. Such permit shall impose such restrictions as may be
necessary to properly safeguard life and property.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Manufacture, sale and use of pyrotechnics prohibited; public exhibitions
permitted; common carriers not affected, see G.S. § 14-410
   Pyrotechnics defined; exceptions, see G.S. § 14-414
§ 95.010 LOCK BOXES.
   (A)   Required.
      (1)   All commercial structures which have a system which transmits off-
site alarms for fire detection or suppression systems must have an approved,
on-site lock box which contains keys to provide Fire Department access in an
emergency or alarm activation.
      (2)   All commercial enterprises or industries in the town which use,
store or manufacture on-site hazardous materials that must be reported under
the state right-to-know laws, (G.S. § 95-173 et seq.), or under Title III of
the Federal Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act (SARA) and the
regulations promulgated thereunder, must have an approved, on-site hazardous
materials data storage box at each facility where hazardous materials may be
found.
      (3)   Keys in boxes must be kept up-to-date. When locks are changed the
Fire Department Fire Prevention Bureau must be notified and new keys provided
for the box.
   (B)   Violations; enforcement.
      (1)   Violations of this section shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a
$500 fine as provided under G.S. §§ 160A-175 and 14-4.
      (2)   Violators may be subject to a $500 civil penalty to be recovered in
the nature of a debt. Each days continuing violation shall constitute a
separate offense as provided by G.S. § 160A-175(g).
      (3)   The town may also secure injunctive and other appropriate equitable
remedies to ensure compliance with this section, as provided by G.S. § 160A-
175.
      (4)   Enforcement actions may be initiated by the Chief of the Fire
Prevention Bureau, Fire Marshal or Chief of the Fire Department.
   (C)   Exceptions. In certain commercial enterprises maintaining 24-hour
onsite premises security and emergency response, such enterprises may propose
measures which will provide immediate access to vital information on a 24-hour
basis, 365 days per year without the use of emergency information lock box. A
violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22)
§ 95.011 EMERGENCY ACCESS GATES AND BARRIERS.
   This section is to provide standardization whenever access gates, including
both manually and electrically operated gates, are installed across any
emergency vehicle access way.
   (A)   Installation specifications.
      (1)   Gates must have a minimum clear opening width of 20 feet, 0 inches.
      (2)   Electrically operated gates must begin their automatic opening
sequence at a point no closer than 25 feet, 0 inches, as measured from the
center of the gate towards the public street.
      (3)   Electrically operated access gates must be equipped with an
automatic vehicle identification device, utilizing a standard roadway loop to a
vehicle detector/receiver.
      (4)   Automatic vehicle identification access system installations must
incorporate the following:
         (a)   Voltage – 12 volt D.C. (11.5 – 15.0), with protection against
current reversal and momentary over voltage.
         (b)   Current – 0.065 amps to 0.035 amps.
         (c)   R.R. – 375 KHz, crystal controlled and pulse modulated type
carrier(s).
         (d)   Power cable – utilize two conductor twisted and shielded cable.
      (5)   Coding – codes must transmit every 15 ms.
      (6)   The emergency vehicle access code shall be the same code as that
utilized for the systems safety loop. It is the manufacturer's responsibility
to insure that the emergency vehicle access code is identical for all
installations within all of the corporate limits.
      (7)   On manual gates, the locking devices shall be equipped with a Knox
Company key box or Knox padlock as approved by the Chief of the Fire Department
Fire Prevention Bureau.
      (8)   All electronic gates installed must have a manual override, or
default to the open position in the event of a power failure.
   (B)   Plans.
      (1)   Three sets of plans and specifications for fire apparatus access
road gates shall be submitted for review and approval prior to construction.
Included in the submittal shall be the following information:
         (a)   Site plan with north arrow, roadway and gate dimensions.
         (b)   Location of underground roadway detector loop.
         (c)   Manufacturer's specification sheets detailing the voltage,
current, radio frequency, power cable and coding for the proposed system.
         (d)   Contractor's statement of compatibility with existing
installation.
         (e)   Detailed vicinity map.
   (C)   Operational testing. An operational test shall be conducted prior to
placing the system into operation to establish that the final installation
complies with this code and the specified design and is functioning properly.
   (D)   Acceptance testing. A final inspection, conducted by the Fire
Department, is required prior to placing the automatic vehicle identification
system into use. The following conditions apply:
      (1)   Approved plans must be provided on-site at time of inspection.
      (2)   Inspections must be scheduled a minimum of 24 hours in advance.
      (3)   Installations must conform to approved plans.
      (4)   Two vehicle detector/receiver devices compatible with the vehicle
identification system must be issued to the Fire Department representative.
   (E)   Maintenance.
      (1)   Emergency vehicle access gates shall be kept in an operable
condition at all times.
      (2)   All repairs shall be in accordance with the manufacturer's
recommendations and original specifications.
      (3)   Non-conforming gates or gates placed out of service shall be
secured in the open position until repaired or brought into compliance. A
violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.012 VACANT PREMISES/UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   All vacant commercial structures shall be maintained as outlined in 2006
North Carolina Fire Code, Chapter 1, § 110, and Chapter 3, § 311. All other
vacant or damaged structures shall comply with
Chapter 92, §
92.01, divisions (B), and (D), and §
92.02, division (B) of this code.  A violation of this section is punishable as
a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.013 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   It shall be illegal for any person to burn, or cause to be burned, any
trash, refuse, shavings, paper, leaves, litter, tires, shingles, paint or other
material of any kind outside any house or in or on any street, sidewalk, lot or
yard within the town's primary fire district.
   (B)   Contractors, developers or corporations involved in the clearing of
land, rights-of-way or easements for development purposes may burn only upon
submitting to the Chief of the Fire Prevention Bureau a permit from the
appropriate state authorities authorizing specific burnings.
   (C)   Open burning in the secondary fire district or area outside the
corporate limits, but within the Harrisburg Rural Fire Protection District will
follow the county ordinance § 34-59 with enforcement by the Cabarrus County
Fire Marshal's Office or designated agent.
      (1)   Open burning must meet all provisions of the North Carolina Fire
Code and North Carolina Administrative Code Title I SA, Chapter 2, subchapter
2D, 1900, Control and Prohibition of Open Burning, prior to the issuance of any
permit. No burning of refuse that is in violation of any state or local Air
Quality Open Burning Regulations will be allowed.
      (2)   Debris burning falling under the jurisdiction of the North Carolina
Department of Natural Resources shall meet their required permit conditions.
All requirements of the North Carolina Fire Code shall be met along with any
other state laws.
   (D)   Burning site requirements.
      (1)   The location of the material to be burned shall be a minimum of 50
feet from any structure. If a possible hazard exists, the Fire Marshal or Chief
of The Fire Prevention Bureau may require this distance to be increased.
      (2)   Piles of material to be burned should be done in a safe manner.
This would also include bonfires for different events. Bonfires used for
ceremonial and religious purposes (schools, civic groups, churches) may take
place when all regulations are met. Materials used for bonfires must also
comply with the Air Quality Regulations.
      (3)   Only natural materials, such as limbs, brush, grass, leaves, or
wood may be burned.
      (4)   A competent person, to be determined by the Fire Marshal or Chief
of The Fire Prevention Bureau, shall constantly attend the fire until such fire
is extinguished.
      (5)   A garden hose with suitable water supply or other fire
extinguishing equipment, as deemed acceptable by the Fire Official, shall be
readily available for immediate use during the course of the fire until such
fire is extinguished.
   (E)   Permits.
      (1)   A permit from the Fire Department Fire Prevention Bureau is
required for bonfires and certain land clearing and may include the following:
         (a)   A site inspection may be required before burning is to be done.
The applicant shall verify all information and shall read all the rules and
regulations on the permit. The applicant will then be required to sign the
permit acknowledging obeying these regulations.
         (b)   It will be the responsibility of the applicant to keep this
permit available at the burn site at all times.
   (F)   Nuisance burning.
      (1)   If at any time during the burning, the smoke and/or odors create a
nuisance by causing physical irritation exacerbating a documented medical
condition, visibility impairment or causes a hazard determined by the Fire
Marshal, Chief or designee, such may order the fire to be extinguished.
      (2)   If at any time during the burning, the regulations regarding open
burning are not met or are violated in any way, the fire shall be extinguished.
      (3)   All open burning which includes, but is not limited to, brush,
limbs, leaves, farm land, fields and clearing of land shall stop in the event
of a burning ban issued by the North Carolina Forest Service, Cabarrus County
Fire Marshal Office or the Fire Department Fire Prevention Bureau.
      (4)   Negligent and/or willful violations of the North Carolina Fire Code
shall be subject to a civil citation.
   (G)   Burning ban.
      (1)   In the event that the Cabarrus County Fire Marshal's Office issues
a ban on outdoor burning within 100 feet of a structure, then all local open
burning permits issued shall be deemed invalid with no issuance of any new
permits until such ban is lifted by the Cabarrus County Fire Marshal's Office.
During this ban, no open burning shall be conducted at all within 100 feet of a
structure; this includes any outdoor burning at residences within the Fire
Department Rural Fire Protection District. A civil citation will be issued for
violations.
      (2)   A burning ban on outdoor burning within 100 feet of a structure may
be issued by the Cabarrus County Fire Marshal's Office in the event that
atmospheric conditions or local circumstance make such fire hazardous.
      (3)   Local conditions that may warrant a burning ban include, but are
not limited to:
         (a)   Flammable and/or combustible liquid spills or leaks close to a
burning site.
         (b)   A hazardous materials incident where the proximity of the burn
site could cause a possible ignition source or provide hazard options
controlling the incident.
         (c)   The proximity of adjacent structures or other such hazards.
      (4)   In the event that a burning ban is issued, all permit holders shall
be notified through the news media that the permit is invalid and fires shall
be extinguished immediately. In conjunction with the North Carolina Forest
Service burning ban, the Cabarrus County Fire Marshal's Office shall issue a
burning ban of all-open burning within 100 feet of a structure and all fires
shall be extinguished immediately. The local press shall be notified by the
Fire Marshal's Office that such ban is in effect and that no permits will be
issued until such ban is listed and no open burning will be allowed.
      (5)   Any burning ban issued by the Cabarrus County Fire Marshal's Office
shall be lifted in the same manner.
   (H)   Extinguishing illegal fires, nuisance burning, and fires when burning
bans are in effect or all other fires that fall under this section, the North
Carolina Fire Code and the state regulations.
      (1)   The Fire Department has the authority to extinguish any fire that
does not meet this chapter, the North Carolina Fire Code and state regulations
which include but are not limited to illegal fires, nuisance burning and fires
when burning bans are in effect.
      (2)   The Fire Department Fire Prevention Bureau or its authorized
representative has the authority to extinguish any fire that does not meet this
chapter, the North Carolina Fire Code and state regulations which include but
are not limited to illegal fires and nuisance burning and fires when burning
bans are in effect. If any citations are to be issued that fall under this
section, it will be done by the Fire Department Fire Prevention Bureau or the
Fire Marshal.
      (3)   The Fire Department Fire Prevention Bureau or its authorized
representative does not have to be present to order the extinguishment of the
fire. If the owner or person burning refuses to let the Fire Department
extinguish the fire, then the Fire Department can have the Fire Department Fire
Prevention Bureau paged and a representative from that office will respond to
assist the Fire Department.
      (4)   The Fire Department Fire Prevention Bureau may respond to any
nuisance burning when the person will not allow the Fire Department to
extinguish the fire.
      (5)   The Fire Department Fire Prevention Bureau or a representative of
that office may respond to any illegal burning when requested. The Fire
Department Fire Prevention Bureau or a representative of that office does not
need to be present to order the fire extinguished. The Fire Department can
extinguish the fire and fax any information about the fire to the Fire
Department Fire Prevention Bureau and it will investigate. If there is an issue
with the person who is burning, the Fire Department Fire Prevention Bureau or a
representative of that office will respond to assist the Fire Department.
      (6)   If any citations are to be issued that fall under this chapter or
North Carolina Fire Code it will be issued by the Fire Department Fire
Prevention Bureau. A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.014 BLASTING PRECAUTIONS.
   (A)   Precautions to prevent damage by blasting; who may blast. Any person
engaged in blasting shall take all necessary precautions to make such blasting
harmless to persons and property. Only an experienced blaster, authorized by a
permit issued by the Fire Department Fire Prevention Bureau, shall directly
superintend or carry out any blasting operations in the town.
   (B)   Permit for blasting. Every permit for blasting shall be issued in the
name of the contractor who is to do the specified blasting. Every such permit
shall show on the face of the name of the foreman or other person authorized
directly to superintend the blasting operations covered by the permit, together
with the name of every person authorized to participate in such blasting
operations. A separate permit shall be required for the blasting incident to
each separate construction, excavation or other project. If, during the course
of any authorized blasting operation, any person named in the permit is for
some reason unable to continue his or her work under the permit, the Chief of
the Fire Department Fire Prevention Bureau may, upon application by the holder
of the permit, substitute for such person any other qualified person. A
violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.015 MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING FIRE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      APARTMENT HOUSE. Any building or portion thereof used as a multiple
dwelling for the purpose of providing three or more separate dwelling units
which may share means of egress and other essential factors.
      CONDOMINIUM DWELLING UNIT. An apartment house, as defined in this
section.
      DWELLING. A building occupied exclusively for residential purposes and
having:
         (a)   One dwelling unit;
         (b)   Two dwelling units; or
         (c)   One dwelling unit with not more than five boarders or roomers
served with meals or sleeping accommodations or both.
      DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation.
      MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING. A building or portion thereof containing three or
more dwelling units; including tenement houses, apartment houses and flats.
      TOWNHOUSES. A single-family dwelling unit constructed in a series or
groups of attached units with property lines separating such units.
   (B)   Fire restrictions for multi-family dwellings. It shall be unlawful to
use open-flame cooking appliances, including grills, on outside balconies or
within ten feet of any combustible portion of any multi-family dwelling,
apartment house, townhouse or condominium dwelling unit. A violation of this
section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 95.040 PRIMARY AND SECONDARY FIRE LIMITS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The primary fire limits of the town are established and defined as
follows: the corporate town limits.
   (B)   The secondary fire limits established will include the Cabarrus County
boundaries of the Fire Department Rural Fire Protection District, as outlined
by the county fire district boundary map.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08)
§ 95.041 ORGANIZATION AND COMPOSITION.
   The Fire Department shall consist of the Chief of the Fire Department and a
sufficient number of full-time, part-time or voluntary firefighters to maintain
and operate the Department. The Town Administrator shall appoint the chief and
approve the rules of appointment to the Department for all members. The Chief
shall appoint such officers of the Department as are provided for in the rules
of the Department. The Department may, from time to time, adopt its own rules
and regulations governing the Department, subject to the approval of the Town
Administrator.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08)
§ 95.042 [RESERVED].
§ 95.043 [RESERVED].
§ 95.044 INVESTIGATION OF FIRES AND SUBMISSION OF REPORTS.
   (A)   The State Attorney General, through the State Bureau of Investigation,
and the Chief of the Fire Department, are hereby authorized to investigate the
cause, origin, and circumstances of every fire occurring in the town in which
property has been destroyed or damaged, and shall specially make investigation
whether the fire was the result of carelessness or design. A preliminary
investigation shall be made by the Chief of the Fire Department or his or her
designee, and must be begun within three days, exclusive of Sunday, of the
occurrence of the fire, and the Attorney General, through the State Bureau of
Investigation, shall have the right to supervise and direct the investigation
when he or she deems it expedient or necessary.
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department or designee shall forthwith notify
the Attorney General, and must within one week of the occurrence of the fire
furnish to the Attorney General a written statement of all facts relating to
the cause and origin of the fire, the kind, value and ownership of the property
destroyed, and such other information as is called for by the forms provided by
the Attorney General.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08)
Cross-reference:
   Investigation of fires and inspection of premises, see G.S. § 69-1 et seq.
§ 95.045 RECORD OF FIRES TO BE KEPT.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall maintain a file with copies of all
written statements of facts on the forms required to be submitted to the
Attorney General as specified.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08)
§ 95.046 COMPLAINTS TO CHIEF.
   Whenever any person shall make written complaint to the Chief of the Fire
Department that any business or premises constitutes a fire hazard, it shall be
the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department to have such business or premises
inspected immediately.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08)
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 95.070 ADOPTION.
   (A)   It is hereby adopted by reference that the latest edition of the code
adopted by the North Carolina Department of Insurance, known as the
International Fire Prevention Code, with all North Carolina Amendments and all
subsequent amendments, revisions, and appendixes, shall become the town fire
code. The provisions thereof shall be controlling with the limits of the fire
district.
   (B)   The provisions and mandatory permits listed in the International Fire
Prevention Code are hereby adopted. A violation of this section is punishable
as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-14-14; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22)
§ 95.071 FIRE PREVENTION BUREAU: ESTABLISHMENT AND DUTIES.
   The North Carolina Fire Code of the State Building Code shall be enforced by
the Fire Department Fire Prevention Bureau in the Fire Department of the town,
which is hereby established and which shall be operated under the supervision
of the Chief of the Fire Prevention Bureau or the Fire Marshal.
   (A)   Service of order. The service of an order to remedy a defect may be
made upon the occupant of the premises, either by delivering a copy of the
order to the occupant personally or by delivering the same to any person in
charge of the premises or, in case no person is found upon the premises, by
affixing a copy of the order in a conspicuous place to the entrance of the
premises. If the owner of the premises is some person other than the occupant
thereof, service of notice may be made by delivering a copy of it to the owner
personally or by mailing the copy to his or her last known address. If the
occupant or owner is a partnership, service upon any partner shall be
sufficient or, if a corporation, upon any official or local agent thereof.
   (B)   Failure to comply with order unlawful. It shall be unlawful to fail to
comply within a reasonable time after the service of such order with the
requirements thereof.
   (C)   Right to enter a building or premises. The Chief of the Fire
Department, or any member of the Fire Department when so directed by the Chief
of the Fire Department, shall have the right to enter any building or premises
at any reasonable hour for the purpose of making any inspection provided for by
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.072 FIRE MARSHAL APPOINTMENT.
   The Chief of the Fire Department Fire Prevention Bureau or Fire Marshal
shall be appointed by the Chief of the Fire Department.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08)
§ 95.073 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Penalties.
      (1)   Any person who violates or fails to comply with any provision of
the International Fire Prevention Code, N. C. Amendments, as adopted, amended,
or augmented, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made in
connection with the Fire Prevention Code, or who shall build in violation of
any specifications or plans submitted under the International Fire Prevention
Code, N. C. Amendments, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, shall
be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
      (2)   The imposition of a penalty for any violation shall not excuse the
violation or permit it to continue and all such violations shall be corrected
within the time specified.
      (3)   Violations of this code shall constitute either a Class 1
misdemeanor or, at the election of the town, shall subject the offender to a
civil penalty upon the issuance of a citation for the violations.
      (4)   In addition to the civil penalties, any provision of the code that
makes unlawful a condition existing upon or use made of real property may be
enforced by injunction and order abatement by the general court of justice.
When a violation of such provision occurs, the town may apply to the
appropriate division of the general court of justice for a mandatory or
prohibitory injunction and/or order of abatement commanding the owner or
possessor of the property to correct the unlawful condition or cease the
unlawful use of the property. The action shall be governed in all respects by
the laws and rules governing civil proceedings including the Rules of Civil
Procedure.
      (5)   An order of abatement may direct that the buildings or other
structures on the property be closed, demolished or removed; that fixtures,
furniture or other movable property be removed from any building on the
property; that abandoned or junked vehicles be removed; that improvements or
repairs be made; or that any other action be taken that is necessary to bring
the property into compliance with the International Fire Prevention Code, N. C.
Amendments. If the owner or possessor fails or refuses to comply with an
injunction or with an order of abatement within the time allowed by the court,
he or she may be cited for contempt and the town may execute the order of
abatement. The town shall have a lien on the property for the cost of executing
an order of abatement in the nature of a mechanic's and material man's lien.
The owner or possessor may secure cancellation of an order of abatement by
paying all cost of the proceedings and posting a bond for compliance with the
order. The bond shall be given with sureties to the Clerk of Superior Court in
an amount approved the by judge before whom the matter is heard and shall be
conditioned on the owner or possessor full compliance with the terms of the
order of abatement within a time fixed by judicial order. Cancellation of an
order of abatement shall not suspend or cancel an injunction issued in
conjunction therewith.
   (B)   Enforcement and duties.
      (1)   The International Fire Prevention Code, N.C. Amendments, shall be
enforced by the Fire Department Fire Prevention Bureau or by such other
organization designated to undertake such activities or by contract executed
and entered into with other appropriate fire prevention organizations.
      (2)   Fire Inspectors will be appointed as required to enforce the code
and to perform required inspections. Fire Inspectors will report to their
supervisors in the Fire Department Fire Prevention Bureau. Assignment of
specific areas of responsibility shall be made by the Fire Chief.
   (C)   Periodic inspections. In order to preserve and protect public health
and safety, and to satisfy the requirements of G.S. § 153-364 and G.S. § 160A-
124, and assuming inspection duties, as set out in G.S. § 153A-351 and G.S. §
160-411, a fire inspection schedule is hereby established as provided below.
   (D)   Same – fees.
      (1)   There will be no charge for required fire inspections however;
there will be a charge for re-inspections for serious violations and for
requested inspections more frequently than required.
      (2)   The schedule for fire inspection fees as set from time to time by
the Town Council shall be kept current and maintained in the office of the Town
Clerk.
      (3)   Subject to the limitations and conditions stated in the
International Fire Prevention Code, N. C. Amendments, it shall be the duty of
to the Fire Department Fire Prevention Bureau to inspect all buildings,
structures, and premises within this jurisdiction for the purposes of
ascertaining and causing to be corrected any condition which may cause a fire
or an explosion or endanger life from fire or explosion. The Inspector shall
determine any violations of the provisions of the code or any other ordinances
pertaining to fire or explosion hazards. These inspections and determinations
will be done in accordance with the periodic inspection schedule for
occupancies as approved by the State Building Code Council or upon complaint by
interested parties or if there is probable cause for such inspections.
      (4)   Fire inspections shall be conducted in accordance with the
following schedule or more frequently:
         (a)   Group 1. Annual inspections shall be conducted in the following:
hospitals, nursing
homes, chemical plants, movie theaters, auditoriums, high rise buildings,
businesses storing hazardous materials, gymnasiums, restaurants, stadiums with
capacities of 100 or more persons and interior common areas of multi-occupant
residential structures.
         (b)   Group 2. Biennial inspections shall be conducted in industries
and educational buildings other than public schools.
         (c)   Group 3. Triennial inspection shall be conducted at all other
businesses. Example: offices, banks, barber shops, bowling alleys, florists,
retail stores, churches and synagogues.
         (d)   Group 4. Public schools shall be inspected at least two times
per year.
   (E)   Issuance of notice of violation by Fire Inspectors.
      (1)   Fire Inspectors are empowered to issue notices of violations when
such Fire Inspectors have reasonable cause to believe that any person has
violated any provision of the International Fire Prevention Code, N. C.
Amendments.
      (2)   The service of orders or notices for the correction of violations
of the code shall be made upon the owner, occupant or other person responsible
for the conditions, either by personally delivering a copy of same to such
person or by delivering the same to and leaving it with any person in charge of
the premises or by sending a copy of the order or notices by certified or
registered mail to the owner's last known address.
      (3)   When buildings or their premises are occupied by one other than the
owner under a lease or agreement, the orders or notices issued to correct
violations of the code shall apply to the occupant thereof; provided that where
the order or notices require the making of additions to or changes in the
premises themselves which may become part of the real property of the owner,
then in such cases, the orders or notice shall also be issued to the owner, as
well as the occupant.
      (4)   The notice of violation shall specify the penalty to be imposed on
the violator and shall direct the violator to submit the penalty payment to the
Fire Department administrative assistant within 15 business days to pay the
penalty. The penalty imposed shall be $100 for violations of the Fire
Prevention Code. However, violations of "Exit Obstruction" shall be deemed
"Life Safety" violations which shall subject the offender to a penalty of $250
and "Open Burning" violations shall be subject to a penalty of $100.
      (5)   The notice of violation may specify a period during which the
violator must correct the violation. If the violation is not corrected within
the specified time, the violator shall be guilty of a new and separate offense.
      (6)   If the violator does not pay the penalty within 15 business days
after the issuance of the notice of violation, a delinquency charge of $10
shall be added to the amount specified in the notice of violation and notice of
the delinquency charge shall be mailed to the violator. The delinquency notice
shall also inform the violator that a criminal summons will be issued against
him or her if the specified penalty and the delinquency charge are not paid
within five business days after the date of the delinquency notice.
      (7)   If the penalty and delinquency charges are not paid within the time
allowed, the Chief of the Fire Department Fire Prevention Bureau may have a
criminal summons issued against the violator of the International Fire
Prevention Code, N. C. Amendments. Upon conviction, the violator shall be
subject, in addition to any criminal penalty the court may impose pursuant to
the provisions contained in the State Building Code, to the penalty specified
in the notice of violation and the delinquency charge.
   (F)   Permits.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department Fire Prevention Bureau
Fire to evaluate applications and issue, if approved, all permits as prescribed
in International Fire Prevention Code, N. C. Amendments.
      (2)   No person shall maintain, store or handle materials or conduct
processes which product conditions hazardous to life or property or install
equipment used in connection with such activities without a permit as required
by the International Fire Prevention Code, N. C. Amendments. Before a permit
may be issued, the Chief of the Fire Department Fire Prevention Bureau or his
or her representative shall inspect and approve the receptacles, vehicles,
buildings, structures, storage areas, devices, processes or conditions related
to the permit.
      (3)   Applications for permits required pursuant to International Fire
Prevention Code, N. C. Amendments shall be made to the Fire Department Fire
Prevention Bureau on forms provided by the Fire Department. All applications
shall be accompanied by the applicable permit fee as established by the town.
All applications shall be accompanied by the applicable permit fee schedule.
Printed schedules of the permit fees shall be available to the public at the
Fire Department Administrative Office or Fire Department Fire Prevention
Bureau, and shall be on file at Town Hall.
      (4)   The Chief of the Fire Department Fire Prevention Bureau is
authorized to waive the permit fee for governmental, religious or charitable
organizations.
   (G)   Permit fees. The schedule of fire prevention permit fees is not
printed in this subchapter but is on file and available in the Fire Department
administrative office and Fire Department Fire Prevention Bureau and shall be
effective upon adoption by the Town Council.
   (H)   Administrative procedures.
      (1)   Fire Code violations. Fire Code violations shall be handled as
follows:
         (a)   If a Fire Official writes a citation (two-part form), the yellow
copy is given to the violator and the white copy is filed with the Fire
Department administrative assistant.
         (b)   The violator will make payment to the Fire Department
administrative assistant. The administrative assistant will process the payment
and forward the collected fees to Town Hall.
         (c)   The Fire Department administrative assistant will match the copy
of the citation sent to the violator with the copy on file. If a payment is
delinquent, the Chief of the Fire Department Fire Prevention Bureau will be
notified for code enforcement.
         (d)   The Fire Department administrative assistant shall serve as the
process agent for all fees and/or fines to be collected by the Fire Department.
Once received, the administrative assistant will process the payment and
forward the collected fees to the Town Hall.
         (e)   The Chief of the Fire Department Fire Prevention Bureau pursues
payment, assigns late fees, issues additional citations, or initiates
prosecution.
         (f)   Copies of invoices should be sent to the Finance office for
record keeping purposes.
      (2)   Permits. Permit requests shall be handled as follows:
         (a)   The Fire Department administrative assistant receives permits
requests and permit payments.
         (b)   Application and payment are reviewed to ensure that the
application is complete and correct payment has been received.
         (c)   A ledger entry will contain date, type of permit, address of
applicant, check number and amount of check.
         (d)   The permit application is processed by the permit type, any
violations are reviewed, and the date of last inspection noted.
         (e)   The permit is issued and a copy filed.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08)
Cross-reference:
   Investigation of fires and inspection of premises, see G.S. § 58-79-1 et
seq.
§ 95.074 WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   Required fire flow. The required fire flow for new occupancies and
additions shall be determined by the Fire Official using the insurance services
office, Guide for Required Fire Flow, most current edition and the
International Fire Prevention Code, N. C. Amendments. Construction alternatives
shall be required if the available water supply is insufficient for
firefighting operations.
   (B)   Fire hydrants. Fire hydrant coverage shall not exceed 400 feet to the
most remote point of any building in residential zoning districts. In
commercial, industrial and multi-family construction development hydrants shall
be placed 400 feet apart. The distance shall be measured along an approved path
of travel for the fire apparatus. On rural thoroughfares, hydrants may be
placed up to 800 feet apart, subject to review and approval by the Fire Code
Official.
   (C)   The approach route of firefighting apparatus should be kept in mind as
fire hydrant locations are determined. Fire hydrants should be located so that
the fire apparatus will not have to go past the fire to catch a fire hydrant,
and then double back to the fire.
   (D)   Fire hydrants shall meet the requirements of AWWA C502. All hydrants
shall be 5-1/4–inch barrel hydrants with the Storz quick connection and cap,
with two 2-1/2–inch hose outlets and one 5-1/4–inch main valve opening.
   (E)   Fire hydrants located inside the public right-of-way and/or to be
maintained by the town shall be painted safety yellow and touched up with two
coats of paint after installation. Fire hydrants located on private property
and to be maintained privately shall be painted red.
   (F)   Each fire hydrant must be readily visible and within six feet of the
curb line. No obstructions are permitted between the hydrant and the curb line.
   (G)   The 5-1/4–inch connection of the fire hydrant shall always face the
curb.
   (H)   The nut of the 5-1/4–inch hydrant cap shall be no less than 18 inches
or more than four feet above the grade.
   (I)   "Out of Service" hydrant markers or bags shall be immediately
installed on all hydrants and not removed until the water line has been
activated and accepted by the town.
   (J)   Modification of distance requirements. The Chief of the Fire
Department Fire Prevention Bureau shall have the authority to modify the
distance requirements in division (B) to 600 foot intervals based on the
occupancy and presence of an approved automatic sprinkler system installed in
accordance with the International Fire Prevention Code, N. C. Amendments.
   (K)   All obstructions, such as fences, trees, shrubs, signs, and the like
shall be at least three feet from the fire hydrant in all directions. The town
shall have the right to cut, trim or remove obstructions to the extent and for
the purpose of correcting such hazards.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08; Am. Ord. passed 9-9-13)
§ 95.075 CODE REQUIREMENTS FOR FIRE SERVICE WATER MAINS, FIRE HYDRANTS AND FIRE
CONNECTIONS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Fire service water mains.
      (1)   Fire service water mains shall be installed in accordance with
approval plans and the Town Engineering and Public Works Department
requirements and specifications for water main construction. Fire service mains
shall also be installed in accordance with the National Fire Protection
Association standard for the installation of Private Fire Service Mains and
Their Appurtenances, NFPA 24, 1992 edition. Conflicting provisions of the Town
Engineering and Public Works Department specifications and NFPA 24 requirements
should be reported to the Chief of the Fire Department Fire Prevention Bureau.
      (2)   Fire service water mains, water meters and other appurtenances
shall be designed to provide at least 80% of the minimum required fire flow at
20 pounds per square inch residual pressure at the hydraulically most difficult
fire hydrant.
         (a)   It is assumed that other fire hydrants, if provided, will
provide a greater quantity of water at the same residual pressure.
         (b)   When all residential buildings in a multi-family complex are
provided with approved residential fire sprinklers, the required fire flow will
be reduced 65%.
      (3)   The required fire flow will be determined utilizing the insurance
services office publication, Guide for Determination of Required Fire Flow,
1980 Edition.
      (4)   Fire Department connections. The Fire Department connections for
standpipe or sprinkler systems are important supplements to normal water
supplies. Under fire conditions, these devices permit the Fire Department to
increase the water supply and pressure to fire protection systems which may be
materially reduced by a larger number of sprinklers operating or by the use of
hose streams from standpipe risers.
         (a)   Minimum size pipe shall be four-inch diameter.
         (b)   All Fire Department inlet pumper connections shall have at least
two 2-1/2–inch female swivel connections with National Standard threads and
protective caps.
         (c)   The Fire Department connections at buildings provided with more
than two standpipe risers shall have one 2-1/2–inch female swivel connection
with National Standard threads, for each additional standpipe riser.
         (d)   All Fire Department connections shall be located not less than
18 inches, or more than five feet above finished grade.
         (e)   All Fire Department connections shall be provided a clear space
of ten feet horizontally and vertically in all directions.
         (f)   All Fire Department connections shall be readily visible and not
more than 50 feet
from a street, fire lane or similar area providing access to Fire Department
apparatus. The area between the connection and vehicular access shall be free
of obstructions.
         (g)   There shall be an approved pumper fire hydrant within 200 feet
of the Fire Department connection measured along an approved path of travel for
the fire apparatus.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08)
§ 95.076 INSPECTION OF PRIVATE HYDRANTS.
   The Fire Department shall require the owners of private hydrants to conduct
tests and inspections on their hydrants as part of the Fire Department's fire
hydrant maintenance program. The owner of the property shall submit annually a
report of the test results to the Fire Department Fire Prevention Bureau. A
violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.077 FIRE LANES.
   (A)   Fire lanes shall be designated at all locations within the authority
and jurisdiction of the town in accordance with the North Carolina Fire Code
and as approved by the Chief of the Fire Department Fire Prevention Bureau.
   (B)   Fire lanes installed shall conform to the requirements of the North
Carolina Fire Code and shall be approved by the Chief of the Fire Department
Fire Prevention Bureau prior to installation.
   (C)   Fire lanes shall be installed in accordance with the specifications on
file at the Fire Department Fire Prevention Bureau office.
   (D)   Roadways, driveways and access ways shall not be marked as fire lanes
without first obtaining approval from the Fire Department. Detailed plans
showing the location of the lanes may be required to determined whether or not
any proposed markings meet specifications established and on file at the Fire
Department Fire Prevention Bureau office.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08)
§ 95.078 SIGNS AND MARKING.
   All fire lanes and access roads must be marked with signs indicating "No
Parking Fire Lane" as described in the specifications on file at the Fire
Prevention Office. These specifications shall include, but are not limited to,
the following:
   (A)   Signs shall measure 12 inches by 18 inches and have red letters on a
white reflective background.
   (B)   Signs must be metal construction only. Plastic or wooden signs are not
acceptable.
   (C)   Signs shall be mounted at a minimum height of four feet to a maximum
height of seven feet.
   (D)   Signs shall be placed along the fire lane at intervals not to exceed
50 feet and as designated by the Chief of the Fire Department Fire Prevention
Bureau.
   (E)   Signs shall be placed on both sides of the land when striping is
required on both sides of the lane by the North Carolina Fire Code.
   (F)   Outlining or painting the fire lane on the roadway surfaces shall be
done in yellow, red, or white with contrasting letters that read "FIRE LANE" at
50 foot intervals and/or specified in the specifications on file at the Fire
Prevention Office or as otherwise directed by the Fire Official.
   (G)   Existing fire lanes shall continue in effect as installed until such
time as they are in need of restriping due to wear or repaving.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08)
§ 95.079 VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person who parks a vehicle in, obstructs, or allows the
obstruction of a designated fire lane shall be liable for civil penalty of
$1,000 upon receipt of a citation issued by the Chief of the Fire Department
Fire Prevention Bureau or any designee.
   (B)   Any vehicle or object obstructing a designated fire lane, whether
public or private, may be towed or removed without prior notification of the
owner, and at the owner's expense.
   (C)   The registered owner of the vehicle parked in the fire lane shall be
responsible for all civil penalties issued and any towing or related charges
accruing hereunder.
   (D)   Civil penalties due hereunder shall be collected under the provisions
set forth in §
95.073.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08)
§ 95.080 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COST(S). All costs incurred for response to, limitation of, containment of,
control of, abatement of, or mitigation of hazardous materials or substances
emergencies and or/disposal of hazardous materials or substances or remedial
action as a result directly or indirectly of a hazardous materials or
substances incident including but not limited to:
      (1)   Costs of any health assessment or health effects study and related
treatment carried out for responding personnel or other persons.
      (2)   Labor, including but not limited to benefits, overtime and
administrative overhead.
      (3)   The cost of operating, leasing, maintaining, repairing, and
replacement of any equipment.
      (4)   Contract labor or equipment.
      (5)   Materials, including but not limited to, absorbents, foam,
dispersants, over pack drums, or containers.
      (6)   Supervision of response to, limitation, containment control,
abatement, or mitigation or clean up.
      (7)   Labor or equipment obtained for, from, or by the town, its
departments, employees or agents, or other local, state or federal agencies.
   FIRE CHIEF. The Chief of the Fire Department or Fire District that responded
to a hazardous material incident.
   HAVING CONTROL OVER OR HAD CONTROL OVER. Shall include but not be limited to
any person using, transferring, storing or transporting a hazardous material
immediately prior to release of such hazardous material on to the land or into
the air or the waters of the town as currently defined in G.S. § 143-215.77 or
as may be hereinafter amended or recodified.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Shall include, but not be limited to, any substance or
material in any form or quantity that poses an unreasonable risk to safety,
health, or property or as currently defined in G.S. § 143-215.75 or as may be
hereinafter amended or recodified.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL INCIDENT. Shall include, but not be limited to, actual or
threatened release of hazardous substances or materials that pose an immediate
threat to the health, safety, or welfare of the population, including hazardous
waste.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL RESPONSE. Shall include, but not be limited to, the
sending of equipment to limit, contain, control, abate, or mitigate hazardous
materials which endanger the health or safety of persons or the environment.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE. Shall include, but not be limited to, any material
which when discharged may be harmful to the public health or welfare,
including, but not limited to, fish, shellfish, wildlife, and public or private
property, shorelines and beaches.
   INCIDENT COMMANDER. The senior official or officials of the Fire Department
or other public agency in charge at the site of a hazardous material incident.
   PARTY or PARTIES.
      (1)   Jointly and severally, the person(s):
         (a)   Whose negligent or intentional act or omission caused a release;
or
         (b)   Who owned or had custody or control of, the hazardous substance
or waste at the time of such release without regard to fault or proximate
cause; or
         (c)   Who owned or had custody or control of the container which held
the hazardous substance at the time of or immediately prior to such release
without regard to fault or proximate cause; or
         (d)   Who owned or had custody or control of the real property upon
which the hazardous substance was located at the time of or immediately prior
to such release without regard to fault or proximate cause and who had
knowledge, actual or implied, of the location of the hazardous material.
      (2)   PARTY or PARTIES shall also include but not be limited to one or
more corporations or partnerships, facilities, or other types of business
entities.
   PERSON(S). Shall include but not be limited to individuals, firms,
partnerships, associations, institutions, corporations, and local, state or
federal government.
   RELEASE. Any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying,
discharging, injecting, escaping, leaching, dumping, or disposing into the
environment (including the abandonment or discarding of barrels, containers,
and other receptacles containing any hazardous material or substance or waste
or pollutant or contaminant).
   RESPONSE. A phase of emergency management that occurs during and immediately
following an incident and provides emergency assistance to victims of the event
and reduces the likelihood of secondary damage.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08)
§ 95.081 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Fire Chief or his or her designee shall have the authority to
summarily limit, contain, control, abate, or mitigate hazardous materials or
substances emergencies that generally endanger the health or safety of the
general public. The Fire Chief or his or her designee shall have the authority
to enter public or private property, with or without the property owner's
consent, to respond to and mitigate such hazardous materials and substances
emergencies whenever there is a threat, (real or perceived) to public safety.
The Fire Chief or his or her designee shall determine the type, amount, and
quantity of equipment and personnel required to adequately limit, contain,
control, abate, or mitigate all hazardous materials or substances incidents.
   (B)   Hazardous materials or substances incidents shall include but not be
limited any reportable or non-reportable chemical in any reportable or
nonreportable quantity that has been released and poses an eminent danger to
the safety and welfare of the public or environment. Hazardous materials or
substances may include but are not limited to:
      (1)   Explosives;
      (2)   Poison gas;
      (3)   Flammable solids;
      (4)   Flammable gas;
      (5)   Non-flammable gas;
      (6)   Radioactive elements;
      (7)   Organic peroxide;
      (8)   Corrosives;
      (9)   Crygonics;
      (10)   Etiological / infectious agents;
      (11)   Flammable liquids; and/or
      (12)   Combustible liquids.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08)
§ 95.082 RESPONSE TO HAZARDOUS MATERIALS OR SUBSTANCES EMERGENCIES – LEVEL OF
TRAINING.
   The Fire Department will operate at the appropriate level of emergency
response as defined by OSHA 1910.120 or as may be hereinafter amended or
recodified and the Department's current level of training. The Department may
request mutual aid assistance to adequately control, abate, and mitigate all
hazardous materials or substances incidents as necessary.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08)
§ 95.083 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS OR SUBSTANCES INCIDENTS — LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   The Incident Commander or Fire Chief is hereby duly authorized to take
all reasonable measures to respond to, limit, contain, control, abate, or
mitigate the hazardous materials or substances incidents. Any party or parties
who creates or causes a hazardous materials or substances incident shall be
liable to the town for the payment of all costs as defined above incurred in
the response to, limiting, containing, controlling, abating, mitigating or any
necessary monitoring of such an incident.
   (B)   The town will pursue all available remedies at law including but not
limited to pendens, levy, in the nature of tax, against any and all party or
parties, jointly and severally, who creates or causes any hazardous material or
substance incident.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08)
§ 95.084 RESPONSIBILITY: FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   The property tax owner and/or the party having control over the
hazardous materials or substances that creates the hazardous materials or
substances emergency shall be held financially liable for any costs as defined
above incurred by the town or other governmental entity during or as a result
of the emergency. The property owner and/or party having control over such
hazardous materials or substances, may provide personnel to assist abatement,
removal and remedial measures, provided such personnel have been adequately
equipped and trained pursuant to the requirements of state and federal laws.
The town shall not be liable for the use of any such personnel. Assistance
shall consist of any or all of the following:
         (a)   Informing Fire Department personnel of all matters pertaining to
the incident.
         (b)   Supplying emergency response plan information for the site.
         (c)   Supplying emergency response equipment, personnel and materials.
      (2)   In all cases the first $100 of costs shall not be charged to the
party or parties.
   (B)   Costs for hazardous materials emergency response on behalf of the town
shall be based upon a yearly schedule as detailed in the municipal fee
schedule. Items may include but not be limited to:
      (1)   Engine responses;
      (2)   Hazardous materials unit response;
      (3)   Ladder truck response:
      (4)   Squad truck response;
      (5)   Deputy Chief/Emergency Coordinator response;
      (6)   Reusable entry suits;
      (7)   Monitors;
      (8)   Any other actual costs as defined above of the responses to,
limiting, controlling, abating, mitigating, or any necessary monitoring of an
incident of hazardous materials or substances as defined above.
   (C)   Failure to pay the charges as assessed shall give the town the right
to levy a lien upon the land or the premises where the hazardous material
emergency arose and the levy shall be collected in the same manner as unpaid
taxes pursuant to the authority of G.S .§ 160A-193 or as may be hereinafter
amended or recodified.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08)
§ 95.085 REIMBURSEMENT FOR HAZARDOUS MATERIALS OR SUBSTANCES EMERGENCIES.
   Any party or parties responsible shall institute and complete all actions
necessary to remedy the effects of a discharge of hazardous materials or
substances at no cost to the town. The Fire Chief or his or her designee has
the authority to remedy the effects of a discharge of hazardous materials or
substances by the Fire Department or by an authorized individual or firm. All
costs associated with such remedy shall be done by the owner, operator or other
person responsible for the discharge.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08)
§ 95.086 COLLECTION AND DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS FOR COST RECOVERY.
   (A)   The Fire Department administrative assistant shall serve as the town's
agent for collecting invoices and billing the responsible party for costs.
Agencies of the town or other organizations responding to a hazardous material
incident at the request of the town will be eligible to submit bills.
   (B)   Invoices that identify eligible costs under this subchapter shall be
submitted to the Emergency Management Coordinator or designee within ten
working days after the costs were incurred or identified. Submitted invoices
should include sufficient documentation for cost reimbursement (such as copies
of time sheets for specific personnel, copies of bills for materials,
equipment, and supplies procured or used, and the like). Accepting invoices
from agencies outside the town shall not incur liability to the town to pay
costs from such agencies unless payment has been received by the town from the
party or parties.
   (C)   The Town Finance Department or designee shall submit one or a series
of consolidated invoice(s) to the responsible party or parties identifying
agencies or agents and their specific costs for reimbursement. The responsible
party shall issue a certified check to the town within 60 days of receiving any
invoice. All funds received under the authority of this subchapter shall be
disbursed according to the claims submitted. Where the reimbursement is less
than the requested amount, each agency shall receive a pro rata share of such
reimbursement as the agencies reimbursable costs bear to the total reimbursable
cost. The town shall not be liable to the agency for any deficiency.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08)
§ 95.087 FIRE INCIDENTS INVOLVING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   In fire incidents that involve hazardous materials or an exposure to
hazardous materials, no fee will be assessed for resources normally associated
with fire suppression operations. Costs as defined above shall be assessed for
those activities and resources associated with abatement.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08)
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
§ 95.101 DESIGNATION OF NIMS FOR EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   The Town Council has established the National Incident Management System
(NIMS) as the town's standard for incident management, all emergency agencies
under town control, under contract with the town, or by a signatory to a mutual
aid agreement with the town, will function under the standards of the National
Incident Management System.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08)
§ 95.102 SUBMISSION OF EMERGENCY PLAN FOR REVIEW.
   (A)   A written Public Safety Emergency Plan shall be approved or prescribed
by the Chief of the Fire Department Fire Prevention Bureau or Fire Department
Emergency Coordinator prior to any event. Such plan shall meet the following
criteria:
      (1)   When public or private gatherings greater than 2,000 people are
convened in a place other than an assembly, or education occupancy within the
town.
      (2)   When any event scheduled will have an adverse impact on public
safety or emergency response through diminished access to buildings, structures
or access roadways.
      (3)   Where public or private pyrotechnic displays are held.
      (4)   Any event sponsored or promoted that is using a town-owned
facility.
      (5)   Any event that requires the issuance of a mandatory fire permit.
   (B)   The Public Safety Emergency Plan when required shall address such
items as emergency vehicle ingress and egress, fire protection, emergency
medical services, public assembly areas and the directing of both attendees and
vehicles (including the parking of vehicles), vendor and food concession
distribution, the need for the presence of law enforcement, and fire and
emergency medical services personnel at the event and a comprehensive
evacuation and severe weather contingency plan.
   (C)   Event sponsors or promoters will be responsible for the procurement of
approved emergency personnel and required equipment at their expense. The
number of required personnel and resources shall be determined by the Chief of
the Fire Department Fire Prevention Bureau or Emergency Coordinator.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08)
§ 95.103 PUBLIC ASSEMBLAGES AND EVENTS.
   As determined by the Chief of the Fire Department Fire Prevention Bureau or
Fire Department Emergency Coordinator, and deemed essential for public safety
in a place of assembly or any other place where people congregate, because of
the nature of the performance, exhibition, display, contest or activity, the
sponsor or promoter shall provide one or more fire watch personnel. A violation
of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.104 FIRE WATCH.
   A competent and approved individual who, at the direction of the Code
Official, diligently keeps watch for fires, obstructions to means of egress and
other hazards during the time such place is open to the public. This activity
shall be documented for the review of the Code Official. The fire watch shall
encompass the entire facility or complex with rounds being made at least once
every hour.
(Ord. passed 10-13-08)
§ 95.105 GENERAL PENALTIES.
   Any person violating or failing, refusing or neglecting to comply with any
provision or requirement of any section or subsection of this chapter, that is
marked as constituting a misdemeanor shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. passed 4-11-22)
CHAPTER 96: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
96.01   Purpose
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Permit required; application; fee; false statements
   
96.04   Alarm systems in apartment complexes
   
96.05   Permit duration and renewal
   
96.06   Proper alarm systems operation and maintenance
   
96.07   Monitoring procedures
   
96.08   Duties of alarm business
   
96.09   Alarm system operating instructions
   
96.10   Alarm dispatch request records
   
96.11   System performance reviews
   
96.12   False alarm administrative processing fees
   
96.13   Appeal from administrative processing fees
   
96.14   Revocation, suspension or loss of alarm permit
   
96.15   Appeal from denial, suspension or revocation of permit
   
96.16   Reinstatement of permit
   
96.17   Penalty fee waiver
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to encourage alarm users and alarm
businesses to maintain the operational reliability and properly use alarm
systems and to reduce or eliminate false alarm dispatch requests.
   (B)   This chapter governs users of systems intended to summon law
enforcement, Fire Department or emergency medical services response, requires
permits, establishes fees, provides for penalties for violations, establishes a
system of administration, and sets conditions for suspension or loss of
permits.
(Ord. passed 3-8-99)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM ADMINISTRATOR. A person or persons designated by the Town Council to
administer, control and review alarm applications, permits and alarm dispatch
requests.
   ALARM BUSINESS. The business, by an individual, partnership, corporation or
other entity of selling, leasing, maintaining, servicing, repairing, altering,
replacing, moving, installing or monitoring an alarm system in an alarm site.
   ALARM DISPATCH REQUEST. A notification to the law enforcement, fire or
emergency medical dispatch center by the alarm business that an alarm, either
manual or automatic has been activated at a particular alarm site.
   ALARM REVIEW AUTHORITY. The Town Council of Harrisburg.
   ALARM SITE. A single premises or location served by an alarm system or
systems. Each tenancy, if served by a separate alarm system in a multi-tenant
building or complex shall be considered a separate alarm site.
   ALARM SYSTEM. A device or series of devices, including, but not limited to,
systems interconnected with hard wires or with radio frequency signals, which
are designed to discourage or detect crime, detect smoke or fire, or summons
emergency medical assistance by emitting or transmitting a remote or local
audible, visual or electronic signal indicating an alarm condition. ALARM
SYSTEM does not include:
      (1)   An alarm installed on a vehicle unless the vehicle is permanently
located at a site; or
      (2)   An alarm designed to alert only the inhabitants of a premises that
does not have a sounding device which can be heard on the exterior of the alarm
site.
   ALARM USER. Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity who
(which) uses an alarm system at its alarm site.
   CHIEF. The duly appointed Chief of a Police or Fire Department.
   CONVERSION. The transaction or process by which one alarm business begins
monitoring of an alarm system previously monitored by another alarm business.
   FALSE ALARM DISPATCH. An alarm dispatch request to the dispatch center, when
the appropriate responding official (law enforcement officer, emergency medical
personnel or Fire Department personnel) finds no evidence of a criminal offense
or attempted criminal offense, fire emergency or medical emergency after having
completed a timely investigation of the alarm site. An alarm dispatch request
which is canceled by the alarm business or the alarm user prior to the time the
responding agency representatives reach the alarm site shall not be considered
a false alarm dispatch.
   HOLDUP ALARM. A silent alarm signal generated by the manual activation of a
device intended to signal a robbery in progress.
   KEYPAD. A device that allows control of an alarm system by the manual
entering of a coded sequence of numbers or letters.
   MONITORING. The process by which an alarm business receives signals from
alarm systems and relays an alarm dispatch request to the appropriate dispatch
center for the purpose of summoning a law enforcement, fire or emergency
medical response to the alarm site.
   ONE PLUS DURESS ALARM. The manual activation of a silent alarm signal by
entering at a keypad a code that adds one to the last digit of the normal arm/
disarm code (normal code = 1234; one plus duress code = 1235).
   OTHER RESPONSIBLE DEPARTMENT HEAD. The department head of a civilian
operated emergency dispatch center.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, association, organization
or similar entity.
   TAKEOVER. The transaction or process by which an alarm user takes over
control of an existing alarm system which was previously controlled by another
alarm user.
   12-MONTH PERIOD. Shall be based on calendar months, which period shall run
from the occurrence of the first false alarm.
   VERIFY. An attempt, by the alarm business, or its representative, to contact
the alarm site by telephonic or other electronic means, whether or not actual
contact with a person is made, before requesting a dispatch, in an attempt to
avoid an unnecessary alarm dispatch request.
(Ord. passed 3-8-99)
§ 96.03 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; FEE; FALSE STATEMENTS.
   (A)   No alarm user shall operate, or cause to be operated, an alarm system
at its alarm site without a valid alarm permit issued by the alarm
administrator. A separate permit is required for each alarm site.
   (B)   The annual fee for a permit or permit renewal for a residential alarm
site is $10. The annual fee for a permit or permit renewal for a commercial
alarm site is $15. No refund of a permit or permit renewal fee shall be
authorized. The initial annual permit fee shall be submitted to the alarm
administrator within 15 days after the alarm installation or alarm takeover.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a completed application form and the permit fee, the
alarm administrator shall issue an alarm permit to an applicant unless the
applicant has:
      (1)   Failed to pay a fine assessed under §
96.12; or
      (2)   Had an alarm permit for the alarm site suspended or revoked, and
the violation causing the suspension or revocation has not been corrected.
   (D)   Each permit application shall include the following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number(s) of the person who will
be the permit holder and be responsible for the proper maintenance and
operation of the alarm system and payment of fees assessed under this chapter;
      (2)   The classification of the alarm site as either residential,
commercial or apartment;
      (3)   For each alarm system located at the alarm site, the purpose of the
alarm system, i.e., burglary, holdup, duress, fire, medical or other;
      (4)   Signed certification from the alarm user stating:
         (a)   The date of installation, conversion or takeover of the alarm
system, whichever is applicable;
         (b)   The name, address, and phone number of the alarm business
performing the alarm system installation, conversion or alarm system takeover
and responsible for providing repair service to the alarm system;
         (c)   The name, address, and phone number of the alarm business
monitoring the alarm system if different from the installing alarm business;
         (d)   Acknowledgment that a set of written operating instructions for
the alarm system has been left with the applicant; and
         (e)   Acknowledgment that the alarm business has trained the applicant
and all persons who will be authorized to manipulate the alarm controls,
including employees, in proper use of the alarm system, including instructions
on how to avoid false alarms.
   (E)   Any false statement of a material matter made by an applicant for the
purpose of obtaining an alarm permit shall constitute cause for refusal to
issue a permit.
   (F)   An alarm permit cannot be transferred to another person. An alarm user
shall inform the alarm administrator of any change that alters any information
identified on the permit application within five business days.
   (G)   All fees owed by an applicant shall be paid before a permit may be
issued or renewed.
   (H)   Information contained in permit applications shall be held in
confidence by all employees or representatives of the county/city with access
to such information. A violation of this section is punishable as a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 3-8-99; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 ALARM SYSTEMS IN APARTMENT COMPLEXES.
   (A)   Contracted for by individual tenant.
      (1)   If an alarm system installed by an individual tenant in an
apartment complex unit is monitored or repaired, the tenant shall provide the
name of a representative of the apartment owner or property manager who can
grant access to the apartment to the alarm business which is providing the
monitoring or repair service.
      (2)   A tenant of an apartment complex shall also obtain an alarm permit
from the alarm administrator before operating or causing the operation of an
alarm system in the tenant's residential unit. The annual fee for this permit
or the renewal of this permit shall be the same as the fee for a residential
alarm site.
      (3)   For purposes of enforcing this chapter, against an individual
residential unit, the tenant shall be responsible for false alarm dispatches
emitted from the alarm system in the tenant's residential unit.
   (B)   Furnished by the apartment complex as an amenity.
      (1)   If the owner or property manager of an apartment complex provides
alarm systems in each residential unit as an amenity, then the owner or
property manager of the apartment complex shall obtain a master alarm permit
from the alarm administrator. The annual fee for this permit and for each
renewal of this permit shall be $20.
      (2)   For purposes of assessing fees and enforcing this chapter, the
master alarm permit holder shall pay those fees for false alarm dispatches
emitted from the alarm systems in residential units.
      (3)   The owner or property manager of an apartment complex shall obtain
a separate alarm permit for any alarm system operated in a nonresidential area
of the apartment complex, including, but not limited to, common tenant areas
and office, storage and equipment areas. An annual fee for such a permit shall
be the same as the fee for a commercial alarm site. A violation of this section
is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 3-8-99; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 PERMIT DURATION AND RENEWAL.
   A permit shall expire one year from the date of issuance, and shall be
renewed annually by submitting an updated application and a permit renewal fee
to the alarm administrator. The alarm administrator shall notify each alarm
user of the need to renew 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit. The
alarm user shall submit an application prior to the permit expiration date.
Failure to renew shall constitute use of a non-permitted alarm system and
citations and penalties shall be assessed without waiver.
(Ord. passed 3-8-99)
§ 96.06 PROPER ALARM SYSTEMS OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   An alarm user shall:
      (1)   Maintain the premises and the alarm system in a manner that
minimizes or eliminates false alarm dispatches; and
      (2)   Make every reasonable effort to have a proper house number posted
in accordance with the county road name/house number ordinance. This number
shall be posted so as to meet or exceed this chapter, and shall in all cases,
be visible from the roadway under adverse weather conditions.
      (3)   Make sure that the directions given to the alarm monitoring station
are accurate, clear and concise. Further, in the event of an alarm activation
the appropriate alarm key holder shall make every reasonable effort to respond
or cause a representative to respond to the alarm system's location within 30
minutes when notified by the county/city to deactivate a malfunctioning alarm
system, to provide access to the premises, or to provide security for the
premises; and
      (4)   Not manually activate an alarm for any reason other than an
occurrence of an event that the alarm system is intended to report provided,
that in the event of manual activation for the purpose of testing the alarm,
the alarm user shall first notify the Sheriff's Department of such test.
   (B)   An alarm user shall adjust the mechanism or shall cause the mechanism
to be adjusted so that a burglar alarm signal audible on the exterior of an
alarm site sounds for no longer than ten minutes after being activated (or 15
minutes for systems operating under Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., Standards
365 or 609). Fire alarm audible signals may sound until manually reset. A
violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 3-8-99; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.07 MONITORING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   An alarm user shall:
      (1)   Report alarm signals by using telephone numbers designated by the
alarm administrator;
      (2)   Ascertain that an attempt is made to verify every alarm signal,
except a duress or hold up alarm activation before or during the request for a
law enforcement response to an alarm signal;
      (3)   Verify that the alarm monitoring service shall communicate alarm
dispatch requests to the appropriate dispatch center in a uniform manner and
form determined by the alarm administrator;
      (4)   Verify that the alarm monitoring service can communicate verified
cancellations of alarm dispatch requests to the appropriate dispatch center in
a manner and form determined by the alarm administrator.
   (B)   The alarm administrator shall:
      (1)   Designate the manner, form and telephone numbers for the
communication of alarm dispatch requests which shall be provided to the user as
guidance for the alarm system installer;
      (2)   Develop a procedure to accept verified cancellation of alarm
dispatch requests.
      (3)   Advise all alarm businesses and users that no alarm systems which
have dialers that dial directly into administrative or 911 telephone lines will
be accepted. Installation and/or activation of such systems shall result in the
issuance of fees and citations being issued to the parties as non-permitted
alarm systems. A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 3-8-99; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.08 DUTIES OF ALARM BUSINESS.
   (A)   After 1998 (or the effective date of this chapter) alarm users shall
neither request nor allow alarm businesses to program alarm systems so that
they are capable of sending one plus duress alarms. Alarm businesses may
continue to report one plus duress alarms received from alarm systems
programmed with this feature prior to the effective date of this chapter. After
the effective date of this chapter, when performing a takeover or conversion an
alarm user shall request the removal of the one plus duress alarm capability
from the alarm system being taken over or converted.
   (B)   After the effective date of this chapter, alarm users shall not allow
alarm businesses to install a device for activating a hold-up alarm which is a
single action non recessed button.
   (C)   Alarm systems that provide for direct dialing over telephone lines to
a dispatch center and the delivery of a pre-recorded message are prohibited in
Cabarrus County. Such installation by an alarm business and use by an alarm
system owner shall constitute a criminal offense as outlined in §
96.17 of this chapter. A violation of this section is punishable as a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 3-8-99; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.09 ALARM SYSTEM OPERATING INSTRUCTIONS.
   An alarm user shall maintain at each alarm site, a set of written operating
instructions for each alarm system. A violation of this section is punishable
as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 3-8-99; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.10 ALARM DISPATCH REQUEST RECORDS.
   (A)   The officer or official responding to an alarm dispatch request shall
record such information as is necessary to permit the alarm administrator to
maintain those records, which shall include, but are not limited, to the
following information:
      (1)   Identification of the permit number for the alarm site;
      (2)   Identification of the alarm site;
      (3)   Arrival time at the alarm site and dispatch received time;
      (4)   Date and time;
      (5)   Weather conditions;
      (6)   Area and/or sub-area of premise involved;
      (7)   Name of alarm user's representative on premises, if any;
      (8)   Identification of the responsible alarm business, and/or;
      (9)   Unable to locate the address.
   (B)   The responding officer or official shall indicate on the dispatch
record whether the dispatch was arose from a criminal offense, an attempted
criminal offense, an actual fire or medical emergency, or a false alarm
dispatch.
   (C)   In the case of an assumed false alarm dispatch, the responding officer
(s) shall leave a notice at the alarm site that the department has responded to
a false alarm dispatch. The notice shall include the following information:
      (1)   The date and time of response to the false alarm dispatch;
      (2)   The identification number of the responding officer; and
      (3)   A statement urging the alarm user to ensure that the alarm system
is properly operated, inspected, and serviced in order to avoid fines.
   (D)   For a period of at least one year (or longer if required by their
license) following a request for dispatch to an alarm site, the alarm
businesses which performs monitoring services shall maintain record relating to
the dispatch. Records shall include the name, address of the alarm user, the
system zone(s) or point(s) activated, the time of request for dispatch and
evidence that prior to the request for dispatch, an attempt to verify was made
to the alarm site. The alarm administrator may request copies of such records
for individually named alarm users.
(Ord. passed 3-8-99)
§ 96.11 SYSTEM PERFORMANCE REVIEWS.
   If the alarm administrator has reason to believe that an alarm system is not
being used or maintained in a manner that ensures proper operation and
suppresses false alarms, he/she may require a conference with an alarm user and
may request the user to have the alarm business responsible for the repair of
the alarm system present to review the circumstances of each false alarm.
(Ord. passed 3-8-99)
§ 96.12 FALSE ALARM ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESSING FEES.
   (A)   An alarm user or the master permit holder for an apartment complex
shall be subject to administrative processing fees, warnings and suspension or
revocation of permit depending on the number of false alarm dispatches emitted
from an alarm system within a 12-month period based upon the following
schedule:
 
# of False Alarm Dispatches Action Taken                                 Fee
4-7                         On-site written notice and suspension of     $100*
                            permit
8-11                        On-site written notice and warning letter    $150*
12-15                       On-site written notice and revocation of     $200*
                            permit
16-                         On-site written notice and possible criminal $400*
                            action
* Fees shall be for each occurrence of a false alarm dispatch
 
   (B)   Any person, operating a non-permitted alarm system (whether revoked,
suspended or never acquired) will be subject to a criminal citation and an
administrative processing fee of $200 for each false alarm dispatch, in
addition to any other fines.
   (C)   Alarm dispatch requests caused by actual criminal offense, attempted
criminal offense, actual fire or emergency medical situation, natural events
(electrical storms) or events caused by man (other than alarm user) which can
be determined to have caused the alarm activation shall not constitute a false
alarm dispatch.
   (D)   The alarm administrator may reinstate a suspended permit upon receipt
of acceptable evidence that the cause of the suspension has been addressed and
appropriate corrective action has been taken as outlined in §
96.16.
   (E)   All administrative processing fees shall be payable in and to the
Cabarrus County Developmental Services/Fire Marshal's Office.
(Ord. passed 3-8-99)
§ 96.13 APPEAL FROM ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESSING FEES.
   (A)   An alarm user may appeal assessment of an administrative processing
fee to the alarm administrator by filing a written request for hearing
identifying the basis for the appeal within ten days after assessment of the
fee. The filing of a request for an appeal hearing with the alarm administrator
shall stay the assessment of the fee until the alarm administrator, or alarm
review authority on appeal, makes a final decision.
      (B)   the alarm administrator shall review the circumstances surrounding
the issuance of the fee assessment and may conduct a formal hearing and
consider the evidence presented by any interested person(s). The alarm
administrator shall enter his or her decision on the preponderance of evidence
found through his/her assessment of the circumstances or presented at the
hearing including, but not limited to, evidence that a false alarm dispatch
arose from a defective part that has been repaired or replaced or that an alarm
dispatch request arose from an actual emergency. The alarm administrator shall
render a decision within 30 days after the receipt of the request for a review.
The alarm administrator shall affirm, reverse or modify the assessment of the
fee. The decision of the alarm administrator may be appealed to the alarm
review authority if written notice is given to the authority within 20 days
after he!she renders a decision on the appeal. Actions and decisions by the
alarm review authority are final administrative decisions by the town.
(Ord. passed 3-8-99)
§ 96.14 REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OR LOSS OF ALARM PERMIT.
   (A)   In addition to suspension or revocation pursuant to §
96.12, the alarm administrator may suspend or revoke an alarm permit if he/she
determines that:
      (1)   There is a false statement of a material matter in the application
for a permit;
      (2)   The permit holder has failed to make timely payment of a fee
assessed under §
96.12(B); or
   (B)   A person shall commit an offense if he operates an alarm system during
the period in which his alarm permit is suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Unless there is separate indication that there is a crime in progress
or there is an actual fire or emergency medical need, the Sheriff/Chief or
other responsible department head who has command authority for the dispatch
center may refuse to dispatch law enforcement, fire or emergency medical
response to an alarm dispatch request at an alarm site for which the alarm
permit is revoked, suspended or has never been issued.
   (D)   If the alarm permit is reinstated pursuant to §
96.16, the alarm administrator may revoke the alarm permit if it is determined
that three subsequent false alarm dispatches occur within 60 days after the
reinstatement date.
(Ord. passed 3-8-99)
§ 96.15 APPEAL FROM DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   If the alarm administrator denies the issuance or renewal of a permit,
or suspends or revokes a permit, he/she shall send written notice of this
action and a statement of the right to an appeal, by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to both the applicant or alarm user and the alarm business.
The applicant or alarm user may appeal the decision of the alarm administrator
to the alarm review authority by filing a written request for a review setting
forth the reasons for the appeal within 20 days after receipt of the notice
from the alarm administrator. An alarm business may submit the request for
review on behalf of an alarm user. Filing of a request for appeal shall stay
the action by the alarm administrator suspending or revoking a permit until the
alarm review authority has completed the review. If a request for appeal is not
made within the 20 day period, the action of the alarm administrator is final.
   (B)   The alarm review authority shall conduct a formal hearing and consider
the evidence offered by any interested person(s). The authority shall make a
decision on the basis of a preponderance of the evidence presented at the
hearing including, but not limited to, certification that alarm users have been
retrained, that a defective part has been repaired or replaced, or that the
cause of the false alarm has been otherwise determined and corrected. The
authority shall render a written decision within 30 days after the request for
an appeal hearing is filed. The authority may affirm, reverse, or modify the
action of the alarm administrator. The decision of the authority is a final
administrative decision of the town.
(Ord. passed 3-8-99)
§ 96.16 REINSTATEMENT OF PERMIT.
   A person whose alarm permit has been revoked may be issued a new permit if
the person:
   (A)   Submits an updated application and pays a $100 permit fee; and
   (B)   Pays, or otherwise resolves, all citations and fees; and
   (C)   Submits a certification from an alarm business, that complies with the
requirements of this chapter, stating that the alarm system has been inspected
and repaired (if necessary) by the alarm business.
(Ord. passed 3-8-99)
§ 96.17 PENALTY FEE WAIVER.
   The alarm administrator may waive the penalty fee within 15 working days
from date of citation, if the subscriber can produce an original invoice for
work conducted to repair the alarm system, in an amount equal to or greater
than the imposed penalty fee amount.
(Ord. passed 3-8-99)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   A person commits a misdemeanor criminal offense punishable by §
10.99 of this code if he violates by commission or omission any provision of
this chapter that imposes upon him a duty or responsibility.
(Ord. passed 3-8-99; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22)
CHAPTER 97: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Use of Town Parks
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   Park preservation
   
97.03   Firearms, explosives, alcoholic beverages, drugs and dangerous
substances
   
97.04   Hunting
   
97.05   Camping, fires and picnic areas
   
97.06   Smoking
   
97.07   Aviation
   
97.08   Hours of operation
   
97.09   Vehicles and parking
   
97.10   Conduct
   
97.11   Enforcement
   
97.12   Registered sex offenders
 
   
97.99   Penalty
USE OF TOWN PARKS
§ 97.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. Harrisburg Public Works Department.
   FOOT PATH AND TRAIL. Any path or trail maintained for pedestrians.
   PARK. The term park or parks shall be deemed to include all aspects of any
park or property owned or controlled by the town.
   PEDESTRIAN. A person afoot.
   PERMIT. Any written license issued by or under authority of the Department,
permitting the performance of a specified act or acts.
   PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, company, association, joint stock
association, firm or partnership.
   REGULATION. Any regulation or ordinance duly adopted by the Town Council and
posted as a Harrisburg park regulation.
   VEHICLE. Any conveyance (except baby carriages) including motor vehicles,
trailers of all types, campers, sleds, sleighs, pushcarts, or vehicles
propelled by other than muscular power. Vehicle also includes any horse or
horse-drawn conveyance, but excluding nonmotorized bicycles or tricycles.
(Ord. passed 10-14-02)
§ 97.02 PARK PRESERVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with or displace or remove any
buildings, bridges, tables, benches, fireplaces, railings, pavings or paving
materials, water lines or other public utilities or parts or appurtenances
therefore, signs, notices or placards, whether temporary or permanent,
monuments, stakes, posts, or other boundary markers, or other structures or
equipment, facilities or park property or appurtenances whatsoever, either real
or personal;
   (B)   Fail to cooperate in maintaining restrooms and washrooms in a clean
and sanitary condition;
   (C)   Dig, destroy, mutilate, or remove any soil, rock, sand, stones,
animal, mineral, trees, shrubs or plants or other wood or materials, or make
any excavation by tool, equipment, blasting or other means or agency;
   (D)   Damage, cut, carve, mark, transplant or remove any plant, or injure
the bark, or pick flowers or seed of any tree or plant, dig in or otherwise
disturb grass areas, or in any other way injure the natural beauty or
usefulness of any area;
   (E)   Construct or erect any building or structure of whatever kind, whether
permanent or temporary, or run or string any public service utility into, upon,
or across such lands, except on special written permit issued hereunder;
   (F)   Throw, discharge, or otherwise place or cause to be placed in the
waters of any fountains, pond, lake, stream or other body of water in or
adjacent to any park or any tributary, stream, storm sewer, or drain flowing
into such water, any substance, matter or thing, liquid or solid, which will or
may result in the pollution of such waters;
   (G)   Take into, carry through, or put into the park, any rubbish, refuse,
garbage or other material. Such refuse and rubbish shall be deposited in
receptacles so provided. Where receptacles are not provided, all such rubbish
or waste shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible for its
presence, and properly disposed of elsewhere;
   (H)   Attach or place any sign, banner, wire, rope or cable, or any other
contrivance to any building, sign, tree or other park property by use of nails
or staples. These items may be attached with tape or thumbtacks and must be
removed before leaving the area;
   (I)   Cause or permit any animal, under a person's custody or control, to
enter the park, except a dog restrained by a leash not exceeding six feet in
length, except when such animal is part of a park program. Further, the person
having custody of the dog while in the park shall be responsible for the
removal of any animal solid waste;
   (J)   Bring, use, ride, or drive a horse, pony, mule, cow or any other
animal in any part of the park unless the animal is part of a park sponsored
program; and/or
   (K)   Damage or alter any wildlife habitat or area within the park except as
undertaken by authorized park personnel or their agents as a bona fide wildlife
management practice. A violation of any subsection is punishable as a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-14-02; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.03 FIREARMS, EXPLOSIVES, ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES, DRUGS AND DANGEROUS
SUBSTANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring into the park or have in his or
her possession in the park the following:
   (A)   Any rifle, shotgun, BB gun, spring gun, slingshot, bow, or other
weapon in which the propelling force is gunpowder, a spring or air, or any
explosive of any kind. Upon entering the park any of the above weapons which a
person possesses must be made inoperative and placed in an enclosed area that
is not readily accessible.
   (B)   Any alcoholic beverage or any narcotic drug, hallucinogen, or any
other controlled substance without a valid physician’s prescription. While in
the park, persons should conduct themselves in a proper and orderly manner and
further shall not display, consume, or be under the influence of alcoholic
beverages or any narcotic drug, hallucinogen, or any other controlled
substance. Persons shall not sell or distribute drugs or alcohol in the park.
   (C)   Any fireworks or explosive of any kind or nature except by permit. A
violation of any subsection is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord., passed 10-14-02; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.04 HUNTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the park to hunt, trap, shoot, kill,
wound, capture, chase, willfully frighten, or attempt to harm any wildlife
within the park, except as undertaken by authorized park personnel in their
exercise of a bona fide wildlife management practice or unless authorized by
permit. A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-14-02; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.05 CAMPING, FIRES AND PICNIC AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful to:
   (A)   Camp or park a car, trailer, or camper for the purpose of camping or
stay overnight anywhere in the park.
   (B)   Kindle, build, maintain or use a fire except in places provided for
such purposes. Any fire shall be continuously under the care and direction of a
competent person from the time it is kindled until it is extinguished. No
person shall throw away or discard any lighted match, cigar, cigarette,
tobacco, paper or other material within or against any building, boat or
vehicle, or under any tree or in underbrush. Park patrons may bring gas or
charcoal grills for use at the park. These grills must be used only in
designated picnic areas and must be placed within three feet of the stationary
grills provided by the park. No grills of any kind are permitted within the
perimeter of or under any shelter. No portable deep fat frying or grease pots
may be brought into or used in the park.  A violation of any subsection is
punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-14-02; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.06 SMOKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any tobacco products (cigarettes,
cigars, chewing tobacco, or snuff) in the park. A violation of this section is
punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-14-02; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.07 AVIATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the confines of the park to
voluntarily take off, land, or cause to descend or ascend any airplane, flying
machine, balloon, parachute, or other apparatus of aviation, except by special
permit. "Voluntarily" shall mean any action other than a forced landing. This
section shall also apply to radio- controlled airplanes, helicopters, rockets,
and the like. A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-14-02; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.08 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter or remain in the park except
during those hours of operation that it is open to the general public. Park
hours of operation will be 8:00 a.m. until 10:00 p.m. unless otherwise stated.
A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-14-02; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.09 VEHICLES AND PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Drive any vehicle or bicycle on any area except the paved park roads
or parking areas, or such areas as may on occasion by specifically designated
as temporary parking areas;
   (B)   Park a vehicle anywhere except on a designated parking area;
   (C)   Leave a vehicle standing or parked in established parking areas or
elsewhere in the park and recreation areas during hours when the park and
recreation area is closed;
   (D)   Leave a bicycle in a place other than a bicycle rack when such is
provided and there is space available;
   (E)   Ride a bicycle without a reasonable regard to the safety of others;
   (F)   Leave a bicycle lying on the ground or paving or set against a tree,
or in any place or position where other persons may trip over or be injured by
it; and/or
   (G)   Unless otherwise posted, operate a motor vehicle in excess of 13 miles
per hour within the park. A violation of any subsection is punishable as a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-14-02; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.10 CONDUCT.
   (A)   All persons shall obey police officers, park rangers, park personnel,
or other persons designated and authorized by the town to enforce any rules and
any applicable laws or ordinances on park property.
   (B)   Public nudity is prohibited.
   (C)   Making any noise, music or other sounds that annoy, disturb, or
frighten other park users or nearby residents is prohibited except as
authorized by special permit issued by the town.
   (D)   Littering of any kind in any park is prohibited.
   (E)   Rude behavior such as unnecessary spitting, abusive language and/or
profanity in any park is prohibited.
   (F)   Fighting (either physical or verbal assault) in any park is
prohibited.
   (G)   Conducting meetings, performing ceremonies, or holding events or
rallies in any park shall be scheduled and authorized in advance by the town.
   (H)   Throwing rocks or objects of any kind is prohibited. This does not
include balls or objects regularly used in athletic events, when used in a
reasonable manner and in such a way that they do not become hazards to other
park patrons. Golf equipment, golf balls, or any other activities that could be
hazardous to the athletic fields or other people are also prohibited.
   (I)   No one shall solicit, peddle or beg within any park, or sell any
merchandise or wares; provided that this subsection shall not apply to (1) any
concession granted by the town; or (2) any solicitation or sale of goods by
nonprofit or civic groups, provided that a permit is obtained in advance from
the town.
   (J)   No person shall interfere with or in any manner hinder any employee of
the park in the performance of his or her duties. A violation of any subsection
is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-14-02; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.11 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement of this subchapter is punishable by immediate suspension
from the park by the Town Administrator or his or her designee for up to 30
days, in the discretion of the Town Administrator. In addition, park personnel
authorized by the Town Council shall have the duty and responsibility to
enforce this subchapter and shall be empowered to issue citations for
violations as set forth in §
97.99.
   (B)   Each person receiving a citation may, within 15 days of its issuance,
pay as a penalty in full satisfaction of such violation, the sum or sums set
forth in this subchapter. Failure of such person to render payment of such
amount, within 15 days, shall render such person subject to punishment for a
misdemeanor as provided below.
(Ord. passed 10-14-02)
§ 97.12 REGISTERED SEX OFFENDERS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DEPARTMENT. The Harrisburg Parks and Recreation Department.
      OFFICIAL MEETING. A meeting that is required to be open to the public by
the Open Meetings Law, G.S. Chapter 143, Article 33C.
      PARK. All parks, playgrounds, recreation facilities, greenways, water
areas, wildlife refuges, nature preserves or other recreation areas, including
any adjacent public parking area as well as the driveway, entrance way or
pedestrian walkway used by the public to access the park or recreation
facility, developed or undeveloped, and structures thereon, owned, operated,
leased or managed by the town.
      RECREATION FACILITY. Any publicly owned, leased, operated or maintained
property that is designated or used as a recreation facility by the town,
including but not limited to the Harrisburg Library while it is located in the
Harrisburg Park on Sims Parkway and including any adjacent public parking area
as well as the driveway, entrance way or pedestrian walkway used by the public
to access the recreation facility.
      REGISTERED SEX OFFENDER. Any individual who is required to register or is
registered with the North Carolina Sex Offender and Public Protection Registry
(established under G.S. Chapter 14, Article 27A) or, the Dru Sjodin National
Sex Offender Public Registry (maintained by the United States Department of
Justice), or any other official state or federal registered sex offender
listing maintained by either the United States Department of Justice or any of
the several states. For purposes of determining if an individual is registered
or is required to register with any one of the official registries, law
enforcement officers may rely upon the official website of any state or federal
registry of sex offenders and the descriptions published and available from
such registry.
      TOWN. Town of Harrisburg.
   (B)   Prohibition. No registered offender registry shall enter into or upon
any park or recreation facility owned, leased, operated or maintained by the
town except as permitted by division (C) of this section.
   (C)   Limited exceptions.
      (1)   Polling place. When a park or recreation facility is used as a
polling place for an election, the registered sex offender may enter for the
limited purpose of voting if he or she has right to vote and qualifies to do so
at that polling place.
      (2)   Official meetings.
         (a)   A registered sex offender who has the right to be present at an
official meeting shall have the limited privilege of entering on and into a
park or recreation facility for such time as is necessary to attend that
meeting or function, but loitering or lingering in any form shall be a
violation of this section.
         (b)   The privilege shall only extend to those parts of the park and/
or recreation facility that are being used for meetings of that kind and any
registered sex offender found outside of those parts shall be punished as
provided in division (G) below.
      (3)    Consistency with the Jessica Lunsford Act. After November 30,
2008, any action prohibited by this section that would also be a violation of
G.S. § 14-208.18 (2008) shall no longer be considered a violation of this
section. For example, after November 30, 2008:
         (a)   A registered sex offender who enters a park and/or recreation
facility playground will no longer be in violation of this section because of
the prohibition of the same conduct by G.S. § 14-208.18(a)(1) (2008);
         (b)   A registered sex offender who enters park and/or recreation
facility property that is held open to the general public that at the time in
question is being used for a youth birthday party may not be deemed in
violation of this section because of the prohibition of the same conduct by
G.S. § 14-208.18(a)(2) (2008); and
         (c)   A registered sex offender will not be in violation of this
section for being on park and/or recreation facility property where minors have
gathered for regularly scheduled recreational programs because of the
prohibition of the same conduct by G.S. § 14-208.18(a)(3) (2008).
   (D)   Territorial scope. This section shall be effective within and upon all
town parks and recreation facilities and shall regulate the use thereof by all
persons.
   (E)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Enforcement. Duly sworn law enforcement officers with jurisdiction
within the town parks and recreation facilities shall have the duty to enforce
this section.
      (2)   Detaining a subject. A law enforcement officer may detain a person
within a town park or recreation facility under this section for a reasonable
amount of time to inquire about that person's status as a registered sex
offender if the officer reasonably believes, or has probable cause to believe,
that the person is a registered sex offender who is in violation of this
section or has committed a crime for which the person, if convicted, could be
required to register as a sex offender. Nothing in this section shall limit a
law enforcement officer from running any background check that is currently
permissible under the law.
   (F)   Construction of section. In the interpretation of this section:
      (1)   Any term in the singular shall include the plural;
      (2)   Any term in the masculine shall include the feminine and the
neuter;
      (3)   Any requirement or prohibition of any act shall, respectively,
extend to and include the causing or procuring, directly or indirectly, of such
act;
      (4)   No provision of this section shall make unlawful any act
necessarily performed by any officer or employee of the town or the department
in the line of duty or work as such, or by any person, his or her agents or
employees, in the proper and necessary execution of the terms of any agreement
of the city or the department;
      (5)   This section is in addition to and supplements state law.
   (G)   Penalty. Violation of division (B) of this section shall be a Class 3
Misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of up to $500 and or
incarceration for a period of time as outlined in G.S. § 15A-1340.20 et seq.
Each and every entrance into a park or recreation facility, regardless of the
time period between such entries, shall constitute a separate offense under
this section.
   (H)   Signage. Each park and recreation facility should be posted to the
effect that registered sex offenders are prohibited so that such persons and
the general public are made aware of this section. Notwithstanding this section
concerning signage, it shall not be a defense to a prosecution under this
section that the park or recreation facility contained no signage.
(Ord. passed 11-10-08)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Parking violations with corresponding fines are listed below:
      (1)   Parking or blocking in handicapped area: $50.
      (2)   Speeding and/or reckless driving: $50.
      (3)   Parking on grass: $50.
      (4)   Parking on road shoulder: $50.
      (5)   Parking in fire lane: $50.
      (6)   Other parking violations: $50.
   (B)   Violation of any provision of this subchapter which also constitutes a
violation of the criminal or motor vehicle laws of the state or the town shall
be punishable as provided in such other law or ordinance. Violation of any
other provision of this subchapter shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable by a five of not more than $500.
(Ord. passed 10-14-02; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22)
CHAPTER 98: HOUSING CODE
Section
   
98.01   Finding; purpose
   
98.02   Definitions
   
98.03   Minimum standards of fitness for dwellings and dwelling units
   
98.04   Minimum standards for structural condition
   
98.05   Minimum standards for basic equipment and facilities
   
98.06   Minimum standards for ventilation
   
98.07   Minimum standards for space, use and location
   
98.08   Minimum standards for safe and sanitary maintenance
   
98.09   Minimum standards for control of insects, rodents and infestations
   
98.10   Minimum standards applicable to rooming houses; exceptions
   
98.11   Responsibilities of owners and occupants
   
98.12   Emergency cases or unsafe conditions
   
98.13   Duties of Building Inspector
   
98.14   Powers of Building Inspector
   
98.15   Inspections; duty of owners and occupants
   
98.16   Administrative procedure
   
98.17   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
98.18   In rem action by Inspector; placarding
   
98.19   Costs to be a lien on premises
   
98.20   Alternative remedies
   
98.21   Town Council; Building Inspector
   
98.22   Conflict with other provisions
   
98.23   Violations
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 FINDING; PURPOSE.
   (A)   Finding. Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-441, it is hereby found and declared
that there exist in the town dwellings which are unfit for human habitation due
to dilapidation and defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents and other
calamities, lack of ventilation, light and sanitary facilities, and other
conditions rendering such dwellings unsafe or unsanitary, dangerous and
detrimental to the health and otherwise inimical to the welfare of the
residents of the town.
   (B)   Purpose. In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the
residents of the town as authorized by G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 19, Part 6,
it is the purpose of this chapter to establish minimum standards of fitness for
the initial and continued occupancy of all buildings used for human habitation,
as expressly authorized by G.S. § 160A-444.
(Ord. passed 10-10-11)
§ 98.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDINGS. A building the use of which is incidental to that of
the main building and which is located on the same lot or on a contiguous lot,
also known as an APPURTENANCE.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. Any structure not roofed over and enclosed that is not
considered an accessory building located on one- and two- family dwelling
sites. Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are decks, retaining walls, gazebos,
fences, carports, arbors, barbecue pits and the like.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building that is partly or completely below
grade having a clear ceiling height of at least six feet-eight inches from
finished floor, the floor level of which is below finished grade but not less
than four feet below the average finished ground level for more than 50% of the
total building perimeter, having floor and walls of approved construction.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. A Building Inspector of the town who shall have
competent knowledge of building construction and shall be a sworn officer of
the town. The BUILDING INSPECTOR must hold either the North Carolina Code
Officials Qualification Council Probationary Building Level 1 Certificate or a
Building Inspector Level 1 Standard Certificate.
   CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground having
an inadequate access to light and air from windows located partly or wholly
below the level of the adjoining ground.
   DEMOLISH. The demolition and removal of the entire building leaving the
property free and clear of all debris and without holes or pockets which may
retain water.
   DETERIORATED. Shall mean that a dwelling is unfit for human habitation and
can be repaired, altered, or improved to comply with all of the minimum
standards established by this chapter, at a cost not in excess of 50% of its
value, as determined by finding of the Building Inspector.
   DILAPIDATED. Shall mean that a dwelling is unfit for human habitation and
cannot be repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum
standards established by this chapter at a cost not in excess of 50% of its
value, as determined by finding of the Inspector.
   DWELLING. Any building which is wholly or partly used or intended to be used
for living or sleeping by human occupants; provided that temporary housing as
hereinafter defined shall not be regarded as a DWELLING.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved
by the Building Inspector.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers, or communicating
corridors, closets and storage spaces.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents or other pests in such number as to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or welfare of the occupants or the public.
   MEANING OF CERTAIN WORDS. Whenever words "dwelling," "dwelling unit,"
"rooming house," "rooming unit," or "premises" are used in this chapter, they
shall be construed as though they were followed by the words "or any part
thereof."
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT. Any person over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in, or having actual possession of a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or part
thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
   OWNER. Any person who alone or jointly, or severally with others:
      (1)   Shall have fee simple title to any dwelling or dwelling unit and
owner and holder of a deed of trust therein, of record; with or without
accompanying actual possession of that dwelling or dwelling unit; or
      (2)   Shall have charge, care or control of any dwelling or dwelling
unit, as owner or agent of the owner, or as executor, executrix, administrator,
administratrix, trustee or guardian of the estate of the owner. Any such person
thus representing the actual OWNER shall be bound to comply with the provisions
of this chapter, and of rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, to the
same extent as if he or she were the OWNER.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations and corporations who have
interests of record in a dwelling and any who are in possession thereof.
   PLUMBING. Includes all of the following supplied facilities and equipment:
gas pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes, mechanical garbage disposal
units (mechanical sink grinder), waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed
dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes washing
machines, catch basin, drains, vents and any other similar supplied fixtures,
together with all connections to water, sewer or gas lines.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. The Town Council or any officer who is in charge of any
department or branch of the government of the town or the state relating to
health, fire, building regulations or other activities concerning dwellings in
the town.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing one or
more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to three or
more persons who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or father or
sister or brother of the owner or operator.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage and
ashes, and the term shall include paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior,
rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral
matter, glass crockery, and dust.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished, or provided by, or under the control of, the
owner or operator.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure, or to any utilities system on the same premises
for more than 30 consecutive days.
   UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION. Shall mean that conditions exist in a dwelling
which violate or do not comply with one or more of the minimum standards of
fitness or one or more of the requirements established by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-10-11)
§ 98.03 MINIMUM STANDARDS OF FITNESS FOR DWELLINGS AND DWELLING UNITS.
   Every dwelling and dwelling unit used as a human habitation, or held out for
use as a human habitation, shall comply with all of the minimum standards of
fitness for human habitation and all of the requirements of this chapter. No
person shall occupy as owner/occupant, allow or let to another for occupancy or
use as a human habitation, any dwelling or dwelling unit which does not comply
with all of the minimum standards of fitness for human habitation and all of
the requirements of this chapter. A violation of this section is punishable as
a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-10-11; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.04 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR STRUCTURAL CONDITION.
   (A)   Structural members. Walls, partitions or supporting members, sills,
joists, rafters or other structural members shall not excessively list, lean or
buckle and shall not be rotted, deteriorated or damaged, and shall not have
holes or cracks which might admit rodents.
   (B)   Floors or roofs. Shall have adequate supporting members and strength
to be reasonably safe for the purpose used.
   (C)   Foundations. Foundation walls, piers or other foundation supports
shall not be deteriorated or damaged so as to dangerously reduce their intended
load bearing characteristics.
   (D)   Means of egress. Steps, stairs, landings, porches, or other parts or
appurtenances shall be maintained in such condition that they will not fail or
collapse. Post and railings shall be structurally sound. Every stair riser
shall be reasonably uniform in height, and treads shall be sound and securely
fastened in position and strong enough to bear a concentrated load of 300
pounds over an area of four square inches without danger of breaking through.
   (E)   Egress facilities. Adequate facilities for egress in case of fire or
panic shall be provided.
   (F)   Interior wall coverings. Interior walls and ceilings of all rooms,
closets and hallways shall be finished of suitable materials, which will, by
use of reasonable household methods promote sanitation and cleanliness, and
shall be maintained in such a manner so as to enable the occupants to maintain
reasonable privacy between various spaces.
   (G)   Exterior wall coverings. All siding or exterior wall coverings shall
be painted or sealed to be weather tight, with no holes or excessive cracks or
decayed boards which permit air to penetrate wall cavities.
   (H)   Exterior elements. The roof, flashings, exterior walls, basement
walls, floors, and all doors and windows exposed to the weather shall be
constructed and maintained so as to be weather tight.
   (I)   Chimneys. There shall be no chimneys or parts thereof which are in
danger of falling, or in such condition or location as to constitute a fire
hazard.
   (J)   Floor surfaces. There shall be no use of the ground for floors. All
floor coverings shall be safe and securely attached.
   (K)   Roof coverings. All roof coverings shall be secure and capable of
preventing water entry into the building structure. A violation of this section
is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-10-11; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.05 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BASIC EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   Plumbing system.
      (1)   General. Each dwelling unit shall be connected to a potable water
supply and to the public sewer or other approved sewage disposal system.
      (2)   Minimum requirements. Each dwelling unit shall contain not less
than a kitchen sink, lavatory, tub or shower, water closet, and adequate supply
of both cold and hot water. All water shall be supplied through an approved
pipe distribution system connected to an approved potable water supply.
      (3)   Fixtures. All plumbing fixtures shall be maintained in a state of
good repair and in good working order.
      (4)   Access. All required plumbing fixtures shall be located within the
dwelling unit and be accessible to the occupants of same. The water closet and
tub or shower shall be located in a room or rooms affording privacy to the
user.
   (B)   Heating system. Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall have facilities
for providing heat in accordance with either division (B)(1) or (B)(2) below.
      (1)   Central and electric heating systems. Every central or electric
heating system shall be of sufficient capacity so as to heat all habitable
rooms in every dwelling unit to which it is connected with a minimum
temperature of 68° Fahrenheit measured at a point three feet above the floor
and two feet from exterior walls during ordinary winter conditions.
      (2)   Other heating facilities. Where a central or electric heating
system is not provided, each dwelling and dwelling unit shall be provided with
sufficient fireplaces, chimneys, flues or gas vents whereby heating appliances
may be connected so as to heat all habitable rooms with a minimum temperature
of 68° Fahrenheit measured three feet above the floor and two feet from
exterior walls during ordinary winter conditions.
      (3)   Venting. All heating systems shall be properly vented. The use of
portable heating devices to meet the heating requirements for habitable spaces
is prohibited.
   (C)   Electrical system.
      (1)   General. Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall be wired for
electric lights and convenience receptacles. Every habitable room shall contain
at least two floor or wall-type electric convenience receptacles, connected in
such manner as determined by the National Electric Code. There shall be
installed in every bathroom, water closet room, laundry room and furnace room
at least one supplied ceiling, or wall type electric light fixture. In the
event wall or ceiling light fixtures are not provided in any habitable room,
then each such habitable room shall contain at least three floor or wall-type
electric convenience receptacles.
      (2)   Stairways. Every public hall and stairway in every multiple
dwelling shall be adequately lighted by electric lights at all times when
natural daylight is not sufficient.
      (3)   Fixtures, receptacles, equipment. All fixtures, receptacles,
equipment and wiring shall be maintained in a state of good repair, safe,
capable of being used, without hazard to property or person. A violation of
this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-10-11; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.06 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR VENTILATION.
   (A)   General. Every habitable room shall have at least one window or
skylight facing directly to the outdoors for adequate ventilation or shall have
an approved mechanical ventilation system. At least one window or exterior door
in every sleeping room shall be of such size and location to allow egress by an
average adult in the event of fire or other emergency.
   (B)   Habitable rooms. Every habitable room shall have at least one window
or skylight which can easily be opened, or such other device as will adequately
ventilate the room. The total openable window area in every habitable room
shall be equal to at least 45% of the minimum window area size or minimum
skylight type window size as required, or shall have other approved, equivalent
ventilation.
   (C)   Bathroom and water closet rooms. Bathrooms and water closet
compartments shall be provided with aggregate glazing area in windows of not
less than three square feet, one-half of which must be openable, or shall have
approved mechanical ventilation. A violation of this section is punishable as a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-10-11; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.07 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR SPACE, USE, AND LOCATION.
   (A)   Room sizes. Every dwelling unit shall contain at least the minimum
room size in each habitable room as required by the current version of the
State Residential Building Code or the State Building Code in effect at the
time of the construction, whichever is least restrictive.
      (1)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square feet of
habitable floor area for the first occupant, at least 100 square feet of
additional habitable area for each of the next three occupants, and at least 75
square feet of additional habitable floor area for each additional occupant.
      (2)   In every dwelling unit and in every rooming unit, every room
occupied for sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square
feet of floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than
one occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each
occupant 12 years of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor area for
each occupant under 12 years of age.
   (B)   Ceiling height. Habitable rooms, hallways, corridors, bathrooms,
toilet rooms and laundry rooms shall have a ceiling height of not less than
seven feet. Basements with habitable space shall have a ceiling height of not
less than six feet-eight inches. For rooms with sloped ceilings, at least 50%
of the required floor area of the room must have a ceiling height of at least
seven feet.
   (C)   Floor area calculation. Floor area shall be calculated on the basis of
habitable room area. The floor area of any part of any room where the ceiling
height is less than five feet shall not be considered as part of the floor area
computing the total area of the room to determine maximum permissible
occupancy.
   (D)   Cellar. No cellar shall be used for living purposes.
   (E)   Basements. No basement shall be used for living purposes unless:
      (1)   The floor and walls are substantially watertight;
      (2)   Basement area meets the ventilation requirements as listed in §
98.06(B) for habitable rooms;
      (3)   Ceiling heights for basements meet division (B) of this section. A
violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-10-11; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.08 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR SAFE AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Exterior foundation, walls, and roofs. Every foundation wall, exterior
wall, and exterior roof shall be substantially weathertight and rodent proof;
shall be kept in sound condition and good repair; shall be capable of affording
privacy; shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load which normal
use may cause to be placed thereon. Every exterior wall shall be protected with
paint and/or coating or have other protective covering to prevent the entrance
or penetration of moisture.
   (B)   Interior floors, walls, and ceilings. Every floor, interior wall, and
ceiling shall be substantially rodent proof; shall be kept in sound condition
and good repair; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load
which normal use may cause to be placed thereon.
   (C)   Windows and doors. Every window, exterior door, basement or cellar
door, and hatchway shall be substantially weathertight, and rodent proof; and
shall be kept in sound working condition and good repair.
   (D)   Stairs, porches, and appurtenances. Every outside and inside stair,
porch, and any appurtenance thereto shall be safe to use and capable of
supporting the load that normal use may cause to be placed thereon; and shall
be kept in sound condition and good repair. Each porch, landing or floor more
than 30 inches above adjacent finished grade shall have guards at 36 inches
high, and shall have pickets installed so as not to allow a sphere greater than
six inches to pass through. Handrails mounted 30 to 38 inches shall be required
on one side of all stairs with four or more risers and if more than a 30 inches
side drop off there shall be a guard with a height of 30 to 38 inches with
pickets or intermediate railings so that a six inch sphere cannot pass through.
All handrails shall be graspable.
   (E)   Bathroom floors; toilet, bath and shower spaces. Bathtub and shower
floors and walls above bathtubs with installed shower heads and in shower
compartments shall be finished with a nonabsorbent surface. Such nonabsorbent
surfaces must extend at least six feet above the floor. Every bathroom floor
surface and water closet compartment floor surface shall be constructed and
maintained so as to permit such floor to be easily kept in a clean and sanitary
condition.
   (F)   Supplied facilities. Every supplied facility, piece of equipment, or
utility which is required under this chapter shall be so constructed or
installed that it will function safely and effectively, and shall be maintained
in satisfactory working condition.
   (G)   Drainage. Every yard shall be properly graded so as to obtain thorough
drainage and so as to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water.
   (H)   Noxious weeds. Every yard and all exterior property areas shall be
kept free of species of weeds or plant growth which are noxious or detrimental
to health.
   (I)   Egress. Every dwelling unit shall be provided with adequate means of
egress as required by the current version of the State Residential Building
Code or the State Residential Building Code in effect at the time of
construction, whichever is the least restrictive. All interior egress doors and
a minimum of one exterior egress door shall be readily openable from the side
from which egress is to be made without the use of a key or special knowledge
or effort.
   (J)   Smoke alarms. Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall have smoke alarms
installed and maintained according to the State Residential Building Code.
   (K)   Carbon monoxide alarms. Every dwelling unit shall have carbon monoxide
alarms installed and maintained, minimum of one on each habitable level of the
dwelling. Carbon monoxide detectors shall be installed and maintained according
to the State Residential Building Code.
   (L)   Accessory buildings and structures. Every accessory building and
structure shall be properly maintained in a safe, clean, sanitary, and
substantial condition. Every accessory building or structure shall be free from
physical hazards and other matter detrimental to public health or safety. A
violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-10-11; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.09 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR CONTROL OF INSECTS, RODENTS, AND INFESTATIONS.
   (A)   Rodent control. Every basement or cellar window used or intended to be
used for ventilation, and every other opening to a basement, cellar or crawl
space which might provide an entry for rodents, shall be supplied with screens
installed or such other approved device as will effectively prevent their
entrance.
   (B)   Infestation. Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling
unit shall be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents, or
other pests therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit
in a dwelling containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for
such extermination whenever his or her dwelling unit is the only one infested.
Whenever infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling
in a rodent-proof or reasonably insect-proof condition, extermination shall be
the responsibility of the owner. Whenever infestation exists in two or more of
the dwelling units in any dwelling or in the shared or public parts of any
dwelling containing two or more dwelling units, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner.
   (C)   Rubbish storage and disposal. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit
shall be supplied with approved containers and covers for storage of rubbish as
required by town ordinances, and the owner, operator or agent in control of the
dwelling or dwelling unit shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
   (D)   Garbage storage and disposal. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit
shall be supplied with an approved garbage disposal facility, which may be an
adequate mechanical garbage disposal unit (mechanical sink grinder) in each
dwelling unit or an incinerator unit, to be approved by the Building Inspector,
in the structure for the use of the occupants of each dwelling unit, or an
approved outside garbage can as required by town ordinances. A violation of
this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-10-11; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.10 MINIMUM STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ROOMING HOUSES; EXCEPTIONS.
   All of the provisions of this chapter, and all of the minimum standards and
requirements of this chapter, shall be applicable to rooming houses, and to
every person who operates a rooming house, or who occupies or lets to another
for occupancy any rooming unit in any rooming house, except as provided in the
following divisions:
   (A)   Water closet, hand lavatory, and bath facilities. At least one water
closet, lavatory basin, and bathtub or shower, properly connected to an
approved water and sewer system and in good working condition, shall be
supplied for each four rooms within a rooming house wherever said facilities
are shared. All such facilities shall be located within the residence building
served and shall be directly accessible from a common hall or passageway and
shall not be more than one story removed from any of the persons sharing such
facilities. Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be supplied with
hot and cold water at all times. Such required facilities shall not be located
in a cellar or uninhabitable basement.
   (B)   Minimum floor area for sleeping purposes. Every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of
floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one
occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each occupant
12 years of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor area for each
occupant under 12 years of age.
   (C)   Sanitary conditions. The operator of every rooming house shall be
responsible for the sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors, and ceilings,
and for the sanitary maintenance of every other part of the rooming house; and
he or she shall be further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the
entire premises where the entire structure or building within which the rooming
house is contained is leased or occupied by the operator.
   (D)   Sanitary facilities. Every water closet, flush urinal, lavatory basin,
and bathtub or shower required by division (A) of this section shall be located
within the rooming house and within a room or rooms which afford privacy and
are separate from the habitable rooms, and which are accessible from a common
hall and without going outside the rooming house or through any other room
therein. A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-10-11; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.11 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Public areas. Every owner of a dwelling containing two or more
dwelling units shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary
condition the shared or public areas of the dwelling and premises thereof.
   (B)   Cleanliness. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall keep
in a clean and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling, dwelling unit, and
premises thereof which he or she occupies and controls.
   (C)   Rubbish and garbage. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit
shall dispose of all his or her rubbish and garbage in a clean and sanitary
manner by placing it in the supplied storage facilities. In all cases the owner
shall be responsible for the availability of rubbish and garbage storage
facilities.
   (D)   Supplied plumbing fixtures. Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall
keep all supplied plumbing fixtures therein in a clean and sanitary condition
and shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable care in the proper use
and operation of same.
   (E)   Care of facilities, equipment and structure. No occupant shall
willfully destroy, deface, or impair any of the facilities or equipment, or any
part of the structure of a dwelling or dwelling unit. A violation of this
section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-10-11; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.12 EMERGENCY CASES OR UNSAFE CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall determine that a dwelling or dwelling
unit is unsafe and represents a threat to life and property if any of the
following conditions exist:
      (1)   No operating heating facilities between November 1 and March 31 of
any year.
      (2)   Failing or failed primary structural members that threaten the
stability of the dwelling or dwelling unit and/or visible structural defects
that appear to render the structural members ineffective or in danger of
possible collapse.
      (3)   Overloaded electrical circuits or unsafe or exposed electrical
wiring creating an imminent hazard.
      (4)   Presence of raw sewage or open sewer, inside the dwelling or
dwelling unit, whether from broken, plugged or inoperative fixtures or pipes
inside the dwelling unit or migrating into the dwelling or dwelling unit from
the outside.
      (5)   Presence of uncontained flammable or combustible liquids or gases,
poisonous solids, liquids or gases, or life or health threatening depletion of
oxygen.
      (6)   The primary means of exit or escape in the event of fire or other
emergency is blocked or structurally unsafe.
   (B)   The Building Inspector will give priority enforcement to any dwelling
or dwelling unit that falls within the provisions of this section. Upon
discovering a violation of this section and in order to protect the life and
safety of the occupants of a building, the Building Inspector shall request in
writing that the owner resolve all emergency and unsafe conditions listed
within 48 hours. In the event that the owner fails to make the requested
corrections, the Building Inspector may order the dwelling or dwelling unit
vacated. The officer may pursue any other civil or criminal action as he or she
deems reasonably necessary in order to effectuate the purpose of this section.
   (C)   In emergency and unsafe conditions, the officer shall have the power
after 48 hours to cause to be posted on the main entrance of such dwelling or
dwelling unit a placard with the following words: "This building is unfit for
human habitation; the use or occupation of this building for human habitation
is prohibited and unlawful." Occupation of a building so posted shall
constitute a misdemeanor. A violation of this section is punishable as a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-10-11; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.13 DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Building Inspector for the town, or his or her designee, is hereby
authorized to enforce the provisions of this chapter and to exercise the duties
and powers herein prescribed.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of this officer or his or her agents:
      (1)   To investigate the dwelling conditions, and to inspect dwellings
and dwelling units located in the town, in order to determine which dwellings
and dwelling units are unfit for human habitation, and for the purpose of
carrying out the objectives of this chapter with respect to such dwellings or
dwelling units;
      (2)   To take such action, together with other appropriate departments
and agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect rehabilitation
of housing which is deteriorated;
      (3)   To keep a record of the results of inspections made under this
chapter and an inventory of those dwellings that do not meet the minimum
standards of fitness herein prescribed; and
      (4)   To perform such other duties as may be herein prescribed.
(Ord. passed 10-10-11)
§ 98.14 POWERS OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector is authorized to exercise such powers as may be
necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and provisions
of this chapter, including the following powers in addition to others herein
granted:
   (A)   To continually investigate the dwelling conditions in the town in
order to determine which dwellings therein are unfit for human habitation;
   (B)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
   (C)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations and
inspections; provided, such entries shall be made in accordance with law and in
such manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the persons in
possession; and
   (D)   To appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents, and employees
as he or she deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-10-11)
§ 98.15 INSPECTIONS; DUTY OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   For the purpose of making inspections, the Building Inspector is hereby
authorized to enter, examine, and survey at all reasonable times all dwellings,
dwelling units, rooming units and premises. The owner or occupant of every
dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit, or the person in charge thereof, shall
give the Inspector free access to such dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming
unit, and its premises at all reasonable times and notification for the
purposes of such inspection, examination and survey. Every occupant of a
dwelling or dwelling unit shall give the owner thereof, or his or her agent or
employee, access to any part of such dwelling or dwelling unit, and its
premises, at all reasonable times and with proper notification for the purpose
of making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance
with the provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order issued pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter. If the owner or occupant refuses admission for
this purpose, admission may be obtained through the provisions of G.S. Chapter
15, Article 4A. A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-10-11; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.16 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation; notice; hearing. Whenever a petition is
filed with the Building Inspector by a Public Authority or by at least five
residents of the town charging that any dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for
human habitation, or whenever it appears to the Building Inspector, upon
inspection, that any dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation,
he or she shall, if his or her preliminary investigation discloses a basis for
such charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner of and parties in
interest in such dwelling or dwelling unit a complaint stating the charges and
containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the Building Inspector
at a place therein fixed, not less than ten days nor more than 30 days after
the serving of the complaint. The owner and any party in interest shall have
the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or
otherwise, and give testimony at the time and place fixed in the complaint.
Notice of such hearing shall also be given to at least one of the persons
signing a petition relating to such dwelling. Any person desiring to do so may
attend the hearing and give evidence relevant to the matter being heard. The
rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be
controlling in hearings before the Inspector.
   (B)   Procedure after hearing. After such notice and hearing, the Building
Inspector shall state in writing his or her determination whether the dwelling
or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation, and, if so, whether it is
deteriorated or dilapidated.
      (1)   If the Building Inspector determines that the dwelling or dwelling
unit is deteriorated, he or she shall state in writing his or her findings of
fact in support of such determination, and shall issue and cause to be served
upon the owner thereof an order directing and requiring the owner to repair,
alter, and improve such dwelling, dwelling unit, accessory building or
accessory structure to comply with the minimum standards of fitness established
by this chapter within a reasonable specified period of time. The order may
also direct and require the owner to vacate and close the dwelling or dwelling
unit until such repairs, alterations, and improvements have been made. Hardship
cases may be handled by the Building Inspector, recommending time or minimum
requirement waivers to the Town Council which body shall act on such
recommendation.
      (2)   If the Building Inspector determines that the dwelling is
dilapidated, he or she shall state in writing his or her findings of fact to
support such determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the
owner thereof an order directing and requiring the owner to either repair,
alter and improve such dwelling, dwelling unit, accessory building or accessory
structure to comply with the minimum standards of fitness established by this
chapter, or else vacate and remove or demolish the same within a reasonable
specified period of time.
   (C)   Failure to comply with order.
      (1)   In personam remedy. If the owner of any deteriorated dwelling or
dwelling unit shall fail to comply with an order of the Building Inspector to
repair, alter, or improve the same within the time specified therein, or if the
owner of a dilapidated dwelling shall fail to comply with an order of the
Building Inspector to vacate and close, and remove or demolish the same within
the time specified therein, the Building Inspector shall submit to the Town
Council at its next regular meeting a resolution directing the Town Attorney to
petition the superior court for an order directing the owner to comply with the
order of the Building Inspector, as authorized by G.S. § 160A-446(g).
      (2)   In rem remedy. After failure of an owner of a deteriorated dwelling
or dwelling unit, or of a dilapidated dwelling, to comply with an order of the
Building Inspector within the time specified therein, if injunctive relief has
not been sought or has not been granted as provided in the preceding division
(C)(1), the Building Inspector shall submit to the Town Council an ordinance
ordering the Building Inspector to cause such dwelling or dwelling unit to be
repaired, altered, improved, or vacated and closed and removed or demolished,
as provided in the original order of the Building Inspector, and pending such
removal or demolition, to placard the dwelling as provided by G.S. §  160A-443.
A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
   (D)   Appeals from orders of Inspector. An appeal from any decision or order
of the Building Inspector may be taken by any person aggrieved thereby. Any
appeal from the Building Inspector shall be taken within ten business days from
the rendering of the decision or service of the order, and shall be taken by
filing with the Building Inspector and with the Town Council, hereinafter
referred to as "Council," a notice of appeal which shall specify the grounds
upon which the appeal is based. Upon the filing of any notice of appeal, the
Building Inspector shall forthwith transmit to the Council all the paper
constituting the record upon which the decision appealed from was made. When
appeal is from a decision of the Building Inspector refusing to allow the
person aggrieved thereby to do any act, his or her decision shall remain in
force until modified or reversed. When any appeal is from a decision of the
Building Inspector requiring the person aggrieved to do any act, the appeal
shall have the effect of suspending the requirement until the hearing by the
Council, unless the Building Inspector certifies to the Council, after the
notice of appeal is filed with him or her, that by reason of the facts stated
in the certificate (a copy of which shall be furnished the appellant), a
suspension of his or her requirement would cause imminent peril to life or
property, in which case the requirement shall not be suspended except by a
restraining order, which may be granted for due cause shown upon not less than
one day written notice to the Building Inspector, the Council or by a court of
record upon petition made pursuant to G.S. § 160A-446(f).
      (1)   The Council shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of all
appeals, shall give due notice to all the parties, and shall render its
decision within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent
or attorney. The Council may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or modify the
decision or order appealed from, and may make such decision and order as in its
opinion ought to be made in the matter, and to that end it shall have the
powers of the Building Inspector, but the majority vote of the members of the
Council shall be necessary to reverse or modify any decision or order of the
Building Inspector. The Council shall have power also in passing upon appeals,
in any case where there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in
the way of carrying out the strict letter of the ordinance, to adapt the
application of the ordinance to the necessities of the case to the end that the
spirit of the ordinance shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured,
and substantial justice done.
      (2)   Every decision of the Council shall be subject to review by
proceedings in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the
decision of the Council, but not otherwise, provided in G.S. § 160A-446(e). In
addition, any person aggrieved by an order issued by the Building Inspector or
a decision rendered by the Council shall also have the right, within 30 days
after issuance of the order or rendering of the decision, to petition the
superior court for temporary injunction restraining the Inspector pending a
final disposition of the cause, as provided by G.S. § 160A-446(f).
(Ord. passed 10-10-11; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.17 METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   Complaints or orders issued by the Inspector shall be served upon persons
either personally or by registered or certified mail. If the whereabouts of
such persons are unknown and cannot be ascertained by the Inspector in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, and the Inspector makes an affidavit to that
effect, then the serving of the complaint or order upon such persons may be
made by publishing the same once each week for two successive weeks in a
newspaper of general circulation in the county, the second publication being
not less than ten days nor more than 30 days prior to the date of the hearing.
(Ord. passed 10-10-11)
§ 98.18 IN REM ACTION BY INSPECTOR; PLACARDING.
   (A)   After failure of an owner of a dwelling or dwelling unit to comply
with an order of the Building Inspector issued pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter, and upon adoption by the Town Council of an ordinance authorizing
and directing him or her to do so, as provided by G.S. § 160A-443(5), the
Building Inspector shall proceed to cause that dwelling or dwelling unit to be
repaired, altered, or improved to comply with the minimum standards of fitness
established by this chapter, or to be vacated and closed and removed or
demolished, as directed by the ordinance of the Town Council and shall cause to
be posted on the main entrance of the dwelling or dwelling unit a placard with
the following words: "This building is unfit for human habitation; the use or
occupation of this building for human habitation is prohibited and unlawful."
Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Each such ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the Register of
Deeds of Cabarrus County and shall be indexed in the name of the property owner
in the grantor index, as provided by G.S. § 160A-443(5).
(Ord. passed 10-10-11)
§ 98.19 COSTS TO BE A LIEN ON PREMISES.
   As provided by G.S. § 160A-443(6), the amount of the cost of any repairs,
alterations, or improvements, or vacating and closing, or removal or
demolition, caused to be made or done by the Building Inspector pursuant to
this chapter shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was
incurred. Such lien shall be filed, have the same priority and be enforced and
the costs collected as the lien for special assessments provided by G.S.
Chapter 160A, Article 10.
(Ord. passed 10-10-11)
§ 98.20 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Neither this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed to impair
or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare nuisances and
to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to enforce this
chapter by criminal process as authorized by G.S. § 14-4, and the enforcement
of any remedy provided herein shall not prevent the enforcement of any other
remedy or remedies provided herein or in other ordinances or laws.
(Ord. passed 10-10-11) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.21 TOWN COUNCIL; BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Town Council shall appoint the Building Inspector to perform the duties
prescribed by §
98.13 and shall keep an accurate record of all its proceedings.
(Ord. passed 10-10-11)
§ 98.22 CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event any provision, standard, or requirement of this chapter is
found to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of
the town, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the town shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 10-10-11)
§ 98.23 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit to
fail, neglect, or refuse to repair, alter, or improve the same, or to vacate
and close and remove or demolish the same, upon order of the Building Inspector
duly made and served as herein provided, within the time specified in such
order, and each day that any such failure, neglect, or refusal to comply with
the order continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit,
with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to this chapter, to
occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the time prescribed in such
order for its repair, alteration or improvement or its vacation and closing,
and each day that such occupancy continues after the prescribed time shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. passed 10-10-11) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to other penalties, any person who fails, neglects or
refuses to make corrections shall be subject to a civil penalty of $100 for the
first day following the expiration of the time period specified in the order
for such repair, alteration or improvement. A $10 per day penalty shall be
imposed for each subsequent day that the unfit dwelling or dwelling unit
remains in violation of the order. If a person fails to pay the civil penalty
within ten days after being notified of the amount due, the town shall seek to
recover the penalty together with all costs by filing a civil action in the
General Court of Justice in the nature of a suit to collect a debt.
   (B)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor, as provided by G.S. § 14-4 with a maximum fine of $500. In
addition to the remedy specified in this and in other sections of this chapter,
the provisions of this chapter may also be enforced by the town by injunction
and order of abatement or by any other equitable remedy issuing from a court of
competent jurisdiction, as specified in G.S. §§ 153A-123(d) and (e).
(Ord. passed 10-10-11; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22)
CHAPTER 99: URBAN ARCHERY DEER SEASON
Section
   
99.01   Requirements
 
   
99.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Urban archery deer season; weapons, see §
130.02
§ 99.01 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Hunters shall follow all state and local laws, rules and ordinances
when hunting deer within the town limits. The start and conclusion of the urban
archery deer season will be determined by the most current North Carolina
Wildlife Resources Commission Regulations Digest.
   (B)   Hunters must have in their possession a valid North Carolina hunting
license showing completion of a hunting safety course.
   (C)   Hunters are prohibited from using firearms to hunt. Only archery is
permitted.
   (D)   Only hunting on private property is allowed. Hunters must have written
permission in their possession dated within one year from landowners to hunt on
their property or must own the property themselves.
   (E)   No hunting is allowed on town property or on, from or across the
right-of-way of any road.
   (F)   Hunters must hunt from an elevated platform of at least ten feet above
the ground.
   (G)   Hunting is only allowed on a tract or parcels of land which is greater
than five acres.
   (H)   A violation of any of the provisions of this section shall subject the
offender to any of the penalties contained in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. A violation of any subsection is punishable
as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 3-12-12; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
99.99.
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided herein, each violation of this code shall
constitute a misdemeanor, except as otherwise provided by statute, and
violations of such provisions of this code shall be punished by a maximum fine
of $500 or as otherwise provided in G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   Violations of this code shall constitute either a misdemeanor or, at
the election of the town, shall subject the offender to a civil penalty upon
the issuance of a citation for said violation as hereinafter provided. The
civil penalty, if not paid to the town within 15 days of the issuance of a
citation, may be recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of debt.
Unless otherwise provided by a specific provision of this code, such civil
penalties shall be in the amount of $50 for each violation, and each day any
single violation continues shall be a separate violation.
   (C)   In addition to the civil penalties set out above, any provision of
this code or any other town ordinance may be enforced by an appropriate
equitable remedy issuing from a court of competent jurisdiction. In such case,
the general court of justice shall have jurisdiction to issue such orders as
may be appropriate, and it shall not be a defense to the application of the
town for equitable relief that there is an adequate remedy at law.
   (D)   In addition to the civil penalties set out above, any provision of the
code or any other town ordinance that makes unlawful a condition existing upon
or use made of real property may be enforced by injunction and order of
abatement by the general court of justice. When a violation of such a provision
occurs, the town may apply to the appropriate division of the general court of
justice for a mandatory or prohibitory injunction and/or order of abatement
commanding the defendant to correct the unlawful condition upon or cease the
unlawful use of the property. The action shall be governed in all respects by
the laws and rules governing civil proceedings, including the Rules of Civil
Procedure in general and Rule 65 in particular.
   (E)   An order of abatement may direct that buildings or other structures on
the property be closed, demolished, or removed; that fixtures, furniture, or
other movable property be removed from buildings on the property; that
abandoned or junked vehicles be removed; that improvements or repairs be made;
or that any other action be taken that is necessary to bring the property into
compliance with this code or such ordinance. If the defendant fails or refuses
to comply with an injunction or with an order of abatement within the time
allowed by such order, he or she may be cited for contempt, and the town may
execute the order of abatement. The town shall have a lien on the property for
the cost of executing an order of abatement in the nature of a mechanic's and
materialman's lien. The defendant may secure cancellation of an order of
abatement by paying all cost of the proceedings and posting a bond for
compliance with the order. The bond shall be given with sureties approved by
the clerk of superior court in an amount approved by the judge before whom the
matter is heard and shall be conditioned on the defendant's full compliance
with the terms of the order of abatement within a time fixed by judicial order.
Cancellation of an order of abatement shall not suspend or cancel an injunction
issued in conjunction therewith.
   (F)   The provisions of this code and any other town ordinances may be
enforced by one, all, or a combination of the remedies authorized and
prescribed by this section. Any ordinances adopted by the Town Council, the
violation of which shall incur a penalty, shall be construed to incur the
criminal penal provisions of this section, unless a civil penalty is specified
in the ordinance.
   (G)   (1)   Upon determination of a violation of any section of this code,
the penalty for which is or may be a civil penalty, the town may but is not
required to cause a warning citation to be issued to the violator. Such
citation shall set out the nature of the violation, the section violated, and
the date of the violation and shall contain an order to cease the violation
immediately. If the violation is in the nature of an infraction for which an
order of abatement would be appropriate in a civil proceeding, a reasonable
period of time may be stated within which the violation must be abated. The
warning citation may specify that a second citation shall incur a civil
penalty, together with costs and attorney fees.
      (2)   Upon failure of the violator to obey the warning citation, a civil
citation shall be issued by the
appropriate official of the town and either served directly on the violator,
his or her duly designated agent, or the registered agent if a corporation,
either in person or posted in the United States mail service by first class
mail addressed to the last known address of the violator as contained in the
records of the town or obtained from the violator at the time of issuance of
the warning citation. The violator shall be deemed to have been served upon the
mailing of such citation. The citation shall direct the violator to appear
before the 1997 S-3 Town Council or its designee within 15 days of the date of
the citation or, alternatively, to pay the citation by mail. The violation for
which the citation is issued must have been corrected by the time the citation
is paid; otherwise, further citations shall be issued. Citations may be issued
for each day the offense continues until the prohibited activity is ceased or
abated.
   (H)   If the violator fails to respond to a citation within 15 days of its
issuance and pay the penalty prescribed therein, the town may institute a civil
action in the nature of debt in the appropriate division of the general court
of justice for the collection of the penalty, costs, attorney fees, and such
other relief as permitted by law.
(Ord. passed 4-8-96; Am. Ord. passed 3-12-12; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS REGISTRATIONS
      
111. SOLICITATION
CHAPTER 110: LICENSES
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Construction of this chapter
   
110.03   Requirement for registration
   
110.04   Period of registration; due date
   
110.05   Separate business
   
110.06   Exemptions
   
110.07   Registration application
   
110.08   Reasons for refusal or revocation of a registration
   
110.09   Unqualified agents; right to a conference
   
110.10   Administrator to issue registration; payment of registration fee a
prerequisite
   
110.11   Registration fee
   
110.12   Revocation
   
110.13   Form and content of registration
   
110.14   Assignments
   
110.15   Changes in the business conducted during the year
   
110.16   Administrator to furnish duplicates
   
110.17   Record of conferences
   
110.18   Providing notice to an agent or person
   
110.19   Duty to determine whether registration is required
   
110.20   Administrator to investigate
   
110.21   Duty to permit inspection
   
110.22   Duty to post registration
   
110.23   Appeal
   
110.24   Effective date
   
110.25   Initial fee
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning
   ADMINISTRATOR.  The person designated by the Town Manager to operate the
Business Registration Program required by this chapter.
   AGENT. An individual acting on behalf of a PERSON as defined herein.
   BUSINESS.  Each trade, occupation, profession, business, and franchise
subject to registration under this chapter.
   PERSON. Any individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary, corporation,
unincorporated association, partnership, sole proprietorship, limited liability
company, company, firm, or other legal entity.
   SEASONAL.  A business is considered SEASONAL in nature when it is conducted
for profit six months out of the year or less.
(Ord. passed 5-9-16)
§ 110.02 CONSTRUCTION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   This chapter is enacted for regulation purposes only. In addition, issuance
of a registration in accordance with this chapter does not excuse a person from
compliance with any other applicable ordinance or statute. This chapter does
not prevent the town from requiring registration for additional businesses.
(Ord. passed 5-9-16)
§ 110.03 REQUIREMENT FOR REGISTRATION.
   Unless exempt as described in §
110.06 of this chapter, each person who conducts a business within this town is
subject to this chapter. One conducts a business WITHIN THE TOWN if one
maintains a business location within the town, or if, either personally or
through agents, one (a) solicits business within the town limits, or (b) picks
up or delivers goods or services within the town limits.
(Ord. passed 5-9-16) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 PERIOD OF REGISTRATION; DUE DATE.
   (A)   Annual registrations. Unless a section of this chapter applicable to a
particular business provides otherwise, a registration issued in accordance
with this chapter is good for the 12-month period beginning July 1 and ending
June 30.
   (B)   Registration of periods shorter than one year. If a section of this
chapter applicable to a particular business so provides, a registration may be
issued for a period of one day, one week or some comparable period of less than
a full registration year. A person may not commence to conduct a business with
the town until the business registration is obtained, and may not continue such
business beyond the period for which the registration is issued.
(Ord. passed 5-9-16) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 SEPARATE BUSINESS.
   A separate registration is required for each place of business unless two or
more places of business under common ownership are contiguous to each other,
communicate directly with and open into each other, and are operated as a unit.
(Ord. passed 5-9-16) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all businesses within the town
municipal jurisdiction unless specifically exempted or excluded from
registering by this chapter, by the laws of North Carolina, or by the laws of
the United States.
(Ord. passed 5-9-16)
§ 110.07 REGISTRATION APPLICATION.
   A person shall apply to the Administrator for each registration required by
this chapter before commencing business. The application, which shall be
submitted on forms provided by the town, shall contain:
   (A)   The name of the owner and, if applicable, the agent for the business,
and a complete statement as to whether the agent is an individual, a
partnership, a corporation, or some other entity.
   (B)   The nature of the business.
   (C)   The physical location where the business is conducted.
   (D)   An address where notices and statements may be mailed, as required by
this chapter.
   (E)   Whether the business is regulated by a state occupational licensing
board subject to G.S. Ch. 93B and, if so, the serial number of the state
registration the business or the agent for the business currently holds.
   (F)   Any other information the Administrator determines to be necessary to
issue the registration, or otherwise regulate the business appropriately.
   The application shall be accompanied by the payment of a registration fee
described below in §
110.11. In compliance with state law, this fee shall not exceed the cost to the
town of the administrative process to produce and issue the registration or to
otherwise monitor the business.
(Ord. passed 5-9-16) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 REASONS FOR REFUSAL OR REVOCATION OF A REGISTRATION.
   The Administrator shall refuse to issue a registration or may revoke a
registration for either of the following reasons:
   (A)   The owner or agent misrepresents a fact relevant to his or her
qualifications for a registration.
   (B)   The owner or agent refuses to provide necessary information, as
determined by the Administrator in his or her discretion.
(Ord. passed 5-9-16)
§ 110.09 UNQUALIFIED AGENTS; RIGHT TO A CONFERENCE.
   (A)   After receipt of the completed application, if the Administrator
believes that a reason exists for refusing a registration under §
110.08 of this chapter, the Administrator shall not issue the registration. At
the agent’s request and in accordance with §
110.08 of this chapter, the Administrator shall give the owner or agent a
written statement of the reason for refusing the registration. Within ten days
after receipt of the statement, the owner or agent may request a conference to
discuss the refusal. In the request, the owner or agent shall specify why the
application for registration should not be refused. The Administrator shall
arrange a conference with the Administrator and the Town Manager within three
business days of receiving the request.
   (B)   If the Administrator refuses to issue a registration, the owner or
agent may reapply for a registration at any time thereafter. If the reason for
which the application was refused no longer exists, and if no other reason
exists for refusing to issue a registration, the Administrator shall issue the
registration in compliance with §
110.10 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-9-16)
§ 110.10 ADMINISTRATOR TO ISSUE REGISTRATION; PAYMENT OF REGISTRATION FEE A
PREREQUISITE.
   After receipt of the completed application and payment of the registration
fee, if the Administrator believes that no reason exists for refusal of a
registration under §
110.08 of this chapter, the Administrator shall issue the registration.
(Ord. passed 5-9-16)
§ 110.11 REGISTRATION FEE.
   The fee required of every owner or agent for any business conducted or
engaged in within the town, as required by this chapter, shall be set forth and
made a part of the Schedule of Fees and Charges adopted by the Town Council, as
amended from time to time. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the fee shall in no
case be more than the maximum permitted by state law for that particular
business or enterprise.
(Ord. passed 5-9-16)
§ 110.12 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Administrator may revoke a registration if a reason exists to
revoke it as set forth in §
110.08 of this chapter. Before revoking a registration, the Administrator shall
give the person written notice of the grounds for revocation, in accordance
with §
110.08 of this chapter. The person may, within ten days after the day on which
notice is mailed, request in writing a conference with the Administrator and
the Town Manager. The Administrator shall arrange the conference within three
business days of receiving the request.
   (B)   If the person fails to request a conference within ten days after the
date on which the notice is mailed, the Administrator shall revoke the
registration. If the person requests a conference, the Administrator may not
revoke the registration until after the conference.
   (C)   If the Administrator revokes a registration and the decision is not
overturned by the Town Manager, the person whose registration has been revoked
may apply for a new registration at any time thereafter. If the reason for
which the registration was revoked no longer exists and if no other reason
exists for refusing to issue the registration, the Administrator shall issue
the registration in accordance with §
110.10 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-9-16)
§ 110.13 FORM AND CONTENT OF REGISTRATION.
   A registration shall show the name of the person, and any agent who may act
on the person's behalf, the place where the business is conducted (if it is to
be conducted at one place), the nature of the business and the period for which
the registration is issued. The Administrator shall keep an exact copy of each
registration issued.
(Ord. passed 5-9-16)
§ 110.14 ASSIGNMENTS.
   A registration may be assigned if (1) a business under this chapter and
carried on at a fixed place is sold as a unit to any person, and (2) the
purchaser is to continue the same business at the same place. Such a change
shall be reported to the Administrator in accordance with §
110.15 of this chapter. Otherwise, each registration issued under this chapter
is a separate registration and is not assignable.
(Ord. passed 5-9-16)
§ 110.15 CHANGES IN THE BUSINESS CONDUCTED DURING THE YEAR.
   A person or an assignee shall report any change in the information contained
in the registration application to the Administrator within ten days after the
change occurs. If information shown on the registration itself is affected, the
person or assignee shall surrender the registration to the Administrator when
reporting the change.
   (A)   Fee for change.  If the change does not result in a separate
registration fee, the Administrator shall reissue a registration reflecting the
change upon payment of a processing fee of $5.
   (B)   Change requiring refusal of a registration.  If the change created a
reason for revoking the registration under §
110.08 of this chapter, theAdministrator shall refuse to reissue a registration
and shall instead begin proceedings to revoke the registration in accordance
with §
110.12 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-9-16)
§ 110.16 ADMINISTRATOR TO FURNISH DUPLICATES.
   Upon satisfactory proof that a registration has been lost or destroyed, the
Administrator shall furnish a duplicate for a processing fee of $5.
(Ord. passed 5-9-16)
§ 110.17 RECORD OF CONFERENCES.
   The Administrator shall maintain for three years a record of each conference
held in accordance with this chapter. The record shall contain the agent’s and
person’s names, the date of the conference, and a brief statement of the issues
discussed and the result reached. After three years, the Administrator may
dispose of the record in accordance with G.S. § 121.5.
(Ord. passed 5-9-16)
§ 110.18 PROVIDING NOTICE TO AN AGENT OR PERSON.
   Whenever this chapter requires the Administrator to give a written statement
or notice to an agent or a person, the Administrator may do so in one of three
ways:
   (A)   By personally delivering the statement or notice to the agent or
person;
   (B)   By mailing the statement or notice by first class mail to the address
on the application; or
   (C)   By causing the statement or notice to be served on the agent or person
in accordance with the procedures for service of process under Rule 4 of the
North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure.
(Ord. passed 5-9-16)
§ 110.19 DUTY TO DETERMINE WHETHER REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED.
   Each person or his or her designated agent has the duty to determine whether
the business he or she conducts is required to be registered under this chapter
and, if so, whether that registration has been obtained.
(Ord. passed 5-9-16)
§ 110.20 ADMINISTRATOR TO INVESTIGATE.
   If the Administrator has reason to believe that a person is conducting a
business in the town in violation of this chapter, the Administrator shall
conduct an investigation to determine the status of the business.
(Ord. passed 5-9-16)
§ 110.21 DUTY TO PERMIT INSPECTION.
   Each person who conducts a business as defined in §
110.03 in the town shall permit the Administrator to inspect the business
premises during normal business hours to determine the nature of the business
conducted there.
(Ord. passed 5-9-16) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.22 DUTY TO POST REGISTRATION.
   A business shall post the registration or registrations conspicuously in the
place of business registered. If the person has a regular place of business,
the registration must be kept where it may be inspected at all times by the
proper town officials.
(Ord. passed 5-9-16) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.23 APPEAL.
   Any agent or person refused or denied a registration under this chapter may
appeal to the Town Manager for review of such a refusal or denial. Such appeal
shall be in writing and shall be delivered to the Town Clerk within 30 days
after notice of such refusal or denial has been sent or otherwise delivered to
the agent or person.
(Ord. passed 5-9-16)
§ 110.24 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect on July 1, 2016.
(Ord. passed 5-9-16)
§ 110.25 INITIAL FEE.
   There will be no charge for the initial, annual or seasonal business
registration fee.
(Ord. passed 5-9-16)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal remedies.  Conducting business within this town without a
valid registration issued in accordance with the chapter, or without posting a
registration in compliance with §
110.22 of this chapter, subjects the violator to the civil penalties contained
in § 10.99. Each day that a person conducts business in violation of this
chapter is a separate offense.
   (B)   Equitable remedies.  In compliance with G.S. § 160A-175(d), the town
may seek an injunction against any person who conducts a business in violation
of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-9-16; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22)
CHAPTER 111: SOLICITATION
Section
   
111.01   Prohibited acts
   
111.02   Exceptions
   
111.03   Application for permit; fees
   
111.04   Issuance of permit
   
111.05   Denial or revocation of permit
   
111.06   Term of permit; renewal
   
111.07   Transfer of permit
   
111.08   Begging, soliciting or panhandling
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter upon any privately-owned
premises or business without permission or invitation of the owner or occupant
of such premises or business for the purpose of soliciting orders for immediate
or future delivery of goods, wares, merchandise, or services, including the
taking of subscriptions for magazines and the procuring of applications and
contracts, without first receiving a permit issued by the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person holding a permit to fail to
display the permit and identification upon demand of a law enforcement officer
while engaged in soliciting in the town.
   (C)   It is unlawful for persons authorized to work for a permit holder to
fail to display a copy of the permit and recognized state identification upon
demand of a law enforcement officer while engaged in soliciting in the town. A
person working for a permit holder shall be listed as an authorized person
on the face of the permit.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to conduct any business as listed in division (A)
above during the hours between 7:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
(Ord. passed 11-12-19)
§ 111.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   Recognized charitable organizations, churches, schools, civic organizations
and similar neighborhood associations performing fund raising, sales, marketing
or other activities for their organization are exempt from the requirements of
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-12-19)
§ 111.03 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEES.
   (A)    Each person requesting a permit under this section shall file a
written application with the town which shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The name and address of the individual filing the application;
      (2)   The name and address of the principal or employer if the applicant
is an agent or employee;
      (3)   A description of the goods or services to be sold or offered;
      (4)   A statement as to whether the applicant intends to receive payment
or deposit for goods or services to be delivered or rendered in the future;
      (5)   The inclusive dates which the applicant will carry on business
within the town;
      (6)   A statement as to which days of the week the applicant intends to
conduct business;
      (7)   A complete description of the vehicle or method of transportation
the applicant intends to use for business purposes while in the town;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the applicant, his principal or employer
or other person having management or supervisory function in the applicant's
business, has been convicted of a criminal offense and, if so, the name of the
person convicted, the nature of the offense, the punishment assessed and when
and where the offense occurred;
      (9)   A statement as to which areas of the town the applicant intends to
conduct his or her business; and
      (10)   A list of all persons other than the applicant that will be
authorized by the applicant to engage in soliciting in the applicant's behalf.
   (B)   Each person filing application for issuance of a permit to solicit in
the town shall present a driver's license or an approved state-issued
identification card with a photograph at the time of filing the application.
   (C)   Fees for this permit will be updated annually in the Schedule of Fees
adopted by Town Council.
(Ord. passed 11-12-19)
§ 111.04 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The town shall issue a permit to the applicant within five working
days of filing the application if it is determined that the applicant has
complied with the provisions of this chapter and proposes to engage in a lawful
commercial or professional enterprise.
   (B)   The approved permit will be a letter on Town of Harrisburg letterhead
signed by town staff. The applicant, agent or employee must carry a copy of
this letter along with an approved state identification card with a photograph
at all times while engaged in business. The employee or agent's
name must appear on the initial application and will be included on the letter.
   (C)   The permit and identification must be displayed upon demand of any law
enforcement officer.
(Ord. passed 11-12-19)
§ 111.05 DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Any applicant denied a permit will be mailed a letter within five
working days after making application, stating the reason for denial. Denial
will be made if it is determined that provisions of this chapter have not been
met or the applicant does not propose to engage in a lawful commercial or
professional enterprise. Conviction of criminal offenses by the applicant or
principals in the business which indicate a propensity for violence, theft,
fraud or similar offenses may be cause for denial of a permit.
   (B)   The town may revoke a permit issued under this chapter when there is a
reasonable factual basis that doing so would be in the best interest of the
health, safety, welfare or morals of the public. The town shall mail a letter
to the address listed for the applicant on the application notifying them of
the reason for revocation.
(Ord. passed 11-12-19)
§ 111.06 TERM OF PERMIT; RENEWAL.
   A permit shall be issued for the period requested in the application,
provided however no permit shall be issued for a period exceeding 12 calendar
months. Upon expiration of the permit, the applicant may apply for a renewal of
the permit which shall indicate what changes, if any, have occurred since the
date the original application was completed. The town may renew and extend the
permit for an additional term not to exceed 12 calendar months.
(Ord. passed 11-12-19)
§ 111.07 TRANSFER OF PERMIT.
   A permit issued under this chapter is not transferable.
(Ord. passed 11-12-19)
§ 111.08 BEGGING, SOLICITING OR PANHANDLING.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ACCOSTING. Approaching or speaking to someone in such a manner as would
cause a reasonable person to fear imminent bodily harm or the commission of a
criminal act upon his or her person, or upon property in his or her immediate
possession.
      AFTER DARK. From one-half-hour after sunset until one-half-hour before
sunrise. The times of sunset and sunrise will be established by the times
listed in The Charlotte Observer or another publication of similar
distribution.
      BEG, SOLICIT or PANHANDLE. Includes, without limitation, use of the
spoken, written, or printed word, or other acts as are conducted in the
furtherance of the purpose of immediately collecting contributions for the use
of oneself or others. As used in this chapter, SOLICIT, and its forms, includes
begging and panhandling.
      FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. A bank, trust company, savings and loan
association, credit union, check-cashing business or other entity principally
engaged in the business of lending money or receiving or soliciting money on
deposit.
      FORCING ONESELF UPON THE COMPANY OF ANOTHER.
         (a)   Continuing to solicit in close proximity to the person addressed
after the person to whom the solicitation is directed has made a negative
response, either verbally, by physical sign, by attempting to leave the
presence of the person soliciting, or by other negative indication;
         (b)   Blocking the passage of the person solicited; or
         (c)   Otherwise engaging in conduct that could reasonably be construed
as intending to compel or force a person to accede to a solicitation.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for any person to beg, solicit
or panhandle on a public sidewalk, public right-of-way or within a public park
owned by the town:
      (1)   By accosting another, or by forcing oneself upon the company of
another;
      (2)   Within 50 feet of the entrance to any financial institution or any
automated teller machine, regardless of whether or not such automated teller
machine is located at or near a financial institution;
      (3)   Within 50 feet of any outdoor dining area or outdoor merchandise
area, provided such areas are in active use at the time;
      (4)   Within 50 feet of any transit stop or taxi stand;
      (5)   While the person being solicited is standing in line waiting to be
admitted to a commercial establishment;
      (6)   While under the influence of alcohol, illegal drug or prescription
medication unless prescribed by a licensed physician.
      (7)   By touching the person being solicited without that person's
consent; or
      (8)   After dark by means of verbal communication.
   (C)   Public transportation vehicle. It shall be unlawful for any person to
beg, solicit or panhandle on a public transportation vehicle.
(Ord. passed 11-12-19)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   This chapter may be enforced by any or both of the following ways as
provided by law:
   (A)   Anyone violating this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 14-4 and fined
not more than $500.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter shall subject the violator to issuance of
a citation in the amount of $150 for each such citation. A citation remaining
unpaid to the town after 15 days shall subject the violator to a civil penalty
which may be recovered by the town in a civil action. A violation which is a
continuing violation shall subject the violator to a separate citation for each
day the violation continues.
(Ord. passed 11-12-19; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130. WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130: WEAPONS
Section
   
130.01   Discharging firearms or pellet guns
   
130.02   Urban archery deer season
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DISCHARGING FIREARMS OR PELLET GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge firearms, pellet guns, or
any other mechanism or device designed or used to project a missile by
compressed air, mechanical action, or any other means, within the corporate
limits, except when used in the defense of person or property or pursuant to
lawful directions of law enforcement officers. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to limit a city's authority to take action under G.S. Chapter 14,
Article 36A. A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 500, passed 12-10-73; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 URBAN ARCHERY DEER SEASON.
   During the urban archery deer season only (season determined by the most
current North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commission Regulations Digest), a
hunter may discharge bows and arrows and crossbows within town limits with
written permission from the land owner. Hunters shall follow all state and
local laws, rules and ordinances when hunting deer within the town limits. A
violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 3-12-12; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Urban Archery Deer Season, see
Ch. 99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in
accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 14-4, with a maximum fine of $500.
(Ord. 500, passed 12-10-73; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-22)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   (This title is reserved for future legislation.)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord. Date Description
No.
     5-   Annexing certain territory beginning at the southwesterly corner of parcel 8, map
600  27-  15, being contiguous to the city limits of the town.
     74
     8-
601  12-  Annexing the following territories:
     74
          (1) Beginning at a point on the northeasterly corner of parcel 7-2, map 15, 50
          feet south of and normal to the centerline of Highway 49, being contiguous to the
          city limits of the town.
          (2) Beginning at a point on the northerly boundary line of parcel 28 at the
          intersection of parcels 28, 29, and 30, being contiguous to the city limits of the
          town.
     4-   Annexing certain territory being Timber Forest Phase I and Phase II Subdivision,
602  12-  starting at the corner of the west side of Morehead Road and the present boundary
     82   of the town.
     4-   Annexing certain territory being township 1, map 15, parcels 7.7 (partial), 7.8
603  12-  and 7.9, beginning at the town boundary at Caldwell Road and Southern Railway
     82   Crossing.
     10-  Annexing certain territory being Timber Forest Phase III Subdivision, beginning at
604  11-  a point on the north right-of-way of Carving Tree Lane along the west right-of-way
     82   of Boulder Creek Lane.
     6-   Annexing certain territory beginning at the present town boundary line bordering
605  10-  the southwest boundary line of Providence Baptist Church from the Highway 49
     85   right-of-way.
     5-   Annexing certain territory beginning at a point on the town boundary parallel to
606  11-  Roberta Mill Road, northwest from the centerline of NC Highway 49.
     87
     9-   Annexing a certain tract of land being 196.31 acres, lying and located in no. 1
607  12-  township, Cabarrus County, North Carolina, south of the town and being in the
     88   southeast quadrant of the intersection of S.R. #1173 (Caldwell Road) with Southern
          Railway 100' right-of-way being known as the Query property.
     9-   Annexing a certain tract of land being 53 acres, lying and located in no. 1
608  12-  township, Cabarrus County, north of, but not adjacent to NC Highway 49 and
     88   adjoining what is known as the H.A. Houston property.
609  9-9- Annexing a ten-acre tract of land on the east side of Caldwell Road (S.R. #1173).
     91
610  8-9- Annexing property commonly known as Camelot Subdivision.
     93
     12-
611  13-  Annexing certain territory beginning at the center line of Robinson Church Road.
     93
     5-
613  10-  Annexing certain territory on both sides of Morehead Road.
     94
     7-   Annexing certain territory being located on the west side of, but not adjoining,
614  11-  Robinson Church Road.
     94
     9-   Annexing certain territory being located in the southerly margin of the right-of-
615  12-  way of North Carolina Highway 49.
     94
     10-  Annexing certain territory beginning at the centerline of the right-of-way of Tom
616  10-  Query Road.
     94
     3-   Annexing certain territory on the southwest side of Morehead Road (SR-1300),
617  13-  adjoining the property of Ledgord, and being a 10.0 acre tract as shown upon a
     95   physical survey prepared for Fast Track Properties, Inc.
     11-  Annexing certain territory on the south side of Rocky River, on the west side of
618  13-  the County Road from Harrisburg to Roberta Mill, adjoining the lands of S. W.
     95   Houston, Z. A. 619
     7-2- Annexing certain territory lying and being in Number One Township of Cabarrus
620  96   County on the south side of Highway 49 and on the north side of the Southern
          Railroad, adjoining the property of Doster, and as more fully described.
     7-   Annexing certain territory lying and being in Number One Township of Cabarrus
621  22-  County on the south side of Highway 49 and on the north side of the Southern
     96   Railroad, adjoining the property of Doster, and as more fully described.
          Annexing certain territory beginning on the northeast corner of the corporate
622  10-  boundary line of the town and being the intersect of the west right-of-way of
     -96  Roberta Road (Highway 1304) and the centerline of Rocky River, and as more fully
          described.
     1-   Annexing certain territory beginning at an iron pin in the center of Stallings
623  13-  Road (Highway 1161) approximately 4,000 feet in a northwestern direction from
     97   Middleton Circle, being the northwestern corner of Lot No. 1, Stallings Farm, and
          as more fully described.
     3-   Annexing certain territory beginning on the northerly margin of Stallings Road,
624  10-  being the rear lot line of Lot 1, Middleton Subdivision Phase 1, to a point in the
     97   rear common lot lines of lots 9 and 10 of the above mentioned, and as more fully
          described.
          Annexing certain territory, beginning at an iron pin in the center of Stalling
     6-   Road (SR 1161), the point of beginning of the 4.93 acre tract, said point being
625  23-  located approximately 4,000 feet in a northwestern direction from Middleton
     97   Circle, and being the northwestern corner of Lot No. 1, Stalling Farm adjoining
          the Joe M. Stalling's property (DB 301-97), and as more fully described.
          Annexing certain territory, beginning at a point in the centerline of Tom Query
     12-  Road, said point being approximately 1,000 feet west of the intersection of Tom
626  8-97 Query Road and Robinson Church Road, thence with the centerline of Tom Query Road
          S 62-10'32" W, 890.52 feet to a point in the line of Wills Run Subdivision, and as
          more fully described.
          Annexing certain territory, beginning at a point, said point lying on the current
     1-   corporate boundary line of the town and being the northeast corner of Lot No. 19
627  12-  on the south side of the right-of-way of Tom Query Road, SR #1166; thence, Query
     98   Road (SR #1166) and the front of Lot Nos. 19 and 18, crossing Caldwell Drive, and
          as more fully described
          Annexing certain territory, beginning at a point in the center line of Tom Query
628  2-9- Road, said point being the northwest front corner of Corum E. Harris, and runs
     98   thence with the western line of Corum E. Harris S. 28-30-00 E., and as more fully
          described.
     4-   Annexing certain tracks in No. 1 Township, beginning at a point in the center line
629  13-  of the right-of-way of Robinson Church Road at a point S 23-12-37 E 1118.59 feet
     98   from a point in the center of the intersection of Rocky River Road and Robinson
          Church Road, and as more fully described.
     5-   Annexing a tract of land beginning at a new iron pin at the end of Alexander Ave.,
630  11-  which pin is also at the edge of the right-of-way of Forest St. and at the
     98   northeast corner of Lot 1 of the Joe L. Sims Subdivision.
     7-   Annexing four tracts of land lying in No. 1 Township, adjoining the property of
631  13-  certain individuals.
     98
     7-   Annexing a tract of land beginning at a nail in the center line of Robinson Church
632  13-  Rd., said nail being the southeast corner of the Robert Henderson property.
     98
     7-   Annexing a tract of land lying and being in No. 1 Township on the southeast side
633  13-  of Tom Query Rd. and adjoining the lands of E. Kenneth Morris, Jeffery A. Marlow,
     98   Jerome F. Capel, and Leslie H. Pistone.
     10-  Annexing a tract of land beginning at an iron pin in the center of Stallings Rd.
634  12-  (SR 1161), the point of beginning of the 4.93 acre tract annexed on January 13,
     98   1997.
     10-  Annexing a tract of land beginning at an existing iron pin which is on the
635  12-  northern edge of the 60' R/W of Stallings Rd. SR 1161 and the rear corner of Lot
     98   1, Flowers Farm Subdivision.
636  11-  Annexing a tract of land beginning at an existing iron rod located at the
     9-98 southeast corner of the property of J.A. Pender.
637  2-8- Annexing a tract of land lying on the waters of Mallard Creek and Rocky River in
     99   No. 2 Township, and being Lots Nos. 1 and 3 in the division of Yerton lands.
     4-   Extending the corporate limits of the town to include certain territory in No. 1
638  19-  Township, Cabarrus County, N.C., on the northern side of Stallings Road (SR 1161).
     99
639  8-9- Extending the corporate limits of the town to include a certain parcel of land
     99   owned by the town.
     1-   Extending the corporate limits of the town to include a certain parcel of land
640  10-  containing approximately 51 acres located in No. 1 Township, Cabarrus County, N.C.
     00
     3-   Extending the corporate limits of the town to include a certain parcel of land in
641  13-  No. 1 Township, Cabarrus County, N.C. on the southeast side of the County Road,
     00   adjoining the property of F.W. Howie and R. A. Harris, and being a part of Tract
          No. 1 in the division of a part of the lands of Mrs. J.C. Howie.
     9-   Extending the corporate limits of the town to include a 13.0487-acre tract of land
642  11-  described in survey for Crossland Commercial LLC, prepared by R.B. Pharr &
     00   Associates and dated 7-13-00, as the Cabarrus County Area.
     12-  Extending the corporate limits of the town to include 0.284 acres in Number One
643  11-  Township, Cabarrus County.
     00
     12-  Extending the corporate limits of the town to include Tract Number Four of the
644  11-  division of the J.W. Easley Estate, located in Number One Township, Cabarrus
     00   County.
     3-   Extending the corporate limits of the town to include the proposed Phase Four of
645  12-  Stallings Farm, located in Number One Township, Cabarrus County.
     01
     5-   Extending the corporate limits of the town to include a certain tract or parcel of
646  14-  land in Number One Township, Cabarrus County, adjoining NC State Highway 49 and
     01   the lands of Nelson and Joyce B. Hardister.
     5-   Extending the corporate limits of the town to include contiguous property on
647  14-  Morehead Road (State Road 1300) in Number One Township, Cabarrus County.
     01
     7-9- Extending the corporate limits of the town to include 82.021 acres of contiguous
648  01   property shown in the survey prepared by Concord Engineering & Surveying, dated
          11-20-98.
     8-   Extending the corporate limits of the town to include 97.277 acres of contiguous
649  13-  property shown in the survey titled “Boundary Survey of: James S. Davis, Jr.,
     01   Margery Davis Irby, Elizabeth Davis Williams, and Robert Edwards Davis, Jr.” by
          Concord Engineering & Surveying, Inc., dated 7-17-99, last revised 10-8-99.
     1-   Extending the corporate limits of the town to include a certain tract of land
650  14-  north of Stallings Road and adjacent to property of G. Alvice Miller, Jr.
     02
     8-   Extending the corporate limits of the town to include a certain tract of land
651  12-  beginning in the center of the Plaza Road Extension and adjacent to the land of
     02   Eugene W. Cochran.
     10-  Extending the corporate limits of the town to include certain tracts of land
652  14-  comprising certain portions of Speedrail Court.
     02
     8-1- Extending the corporate limits of the town to include certain parcels of land
653  03   lying between Belfonte Church and Hickory Ridge Rd. on the northern side of Rocky
          River Rd.
     9-1- Extending the corporate limits of the town to include 36.516 acres located east of
654  03   the Mecklenburg Co. line and south of Tom Query Rd. in the proposed Farmington
          Ridge Subdivision.
     1-1- Extending the corporate limits of the town to include three tracts with a total of
655  04   52.08 acres located west of Roberta Rd. and in the proposed Providence Manor
          Subdivision.
656  3-1- Extending the corporate limits of the town to include 21.39 acres south of Hwy 49.
     04   Property is located between Z-Max Blvd. and Harrisburg Industrial Park Dr.
657  7-1- Extending the corporate limits of the town to include 22.78 acres located within
     04   Phase 5 of the Stallings Farm Subdivision.
     11-  Extending the corporate limits of the town to include property lying and being
658  8-06 situated in Number 1 Cabarrus Co. NC. All of the property conveyed to Johnston
          Hall Farms lying south of Clare Haven Subdivision and North of Rocky River Rd.
     2-   Extending the corporate limits of the town to include property lying and being in
659  14-  No 1 Township, Cabarrus Co., NC, south of the Southern Railroad and on the south
     05   side of State Rd. 1182 adjoining the land of Robert Harris.
          Extending the corporate limits of the town to include property lying and being in
     2-   No. 1 Township, Cabarrus Co., NC, on the south side of but not adjoining,
660  14-  Millbrook Rd. (State Rd. No. 1182), adjoining the property of Frank O. Ratcliffe,
     05   et al., Robert Harris, and David B. Toy, and being a part of the property of
          Donald F. Sellers, Sr.
     2-   Extending the corporate limits of the town to include property lying and being in
661  14-  No. 1 Township, Cabarrus County, NC, on the south side of State Rd. 1182 adjoining
     05   the property of Robert Harris and Ratcliffe, Jenkins, Lee and Harry.
     2-   Extending the corporate limits of the town to include property lying and being in
662  14-  No. 1 Township, Cabarrus Co., NC, on the south side of the Southern Railroad
     05   adjoining the lands of Albert Williams, Jr., Donald Sellers, John V. Pender and
          Robert Harris.
          Extending the corporate limits of the town to include property lying and being in
     9-   No. 1 Township, Cabarrus Co., NC, on the south side of NC Hwy. 49, on the west
663  12-  side of an 80-ft. public right-of-way, and on the north side of a 60-ft. public
     05   right-of-way, and being a 2.0 acre tract as shown on that Division Survey for
          State Employees Credit Union.
     9-   Extending the corporate limits of the town to include property lying south of
664  12-  Rocky River Rd. and adjacent to the property of Lee Quay and Niblock Dev. Corp.
     05   and to serve as the placement of the elevated water storage tank.
          Extending the corporate limits of the town to include property lying and being in
665  10-  No. 1 Township, Cabarrus Co., NC, on the south side of the Southern Railroad
     1-05 adjoining the lands of Albert Williams, Jr., Donald Sellers, John V. Pender and
          Robert Harris.
          Extending the corporate limits of the town to include property lying and being in
666  3-1- No. 2 Township of Cabarrus Co., NC, south of Blackwelder Rd. (CR 1307), and being
     06   tract two in the subdivision of the property of TD Blackwelder Farm. Said tract
          contains approximately 52.68 acres.
          Extending the corporate limits of the town to include property lying and being in
667  3-1- No. 2 Township of Cabarrus Co., NC, on the west side of Black welder Rd. (CR
     06   1307), and being tract no. 1 in the subdivision of T.S. Blackwelder Far. (end of
          667)
     2-   Extending the corporate limits of the town to include 81 acres along Peach Orchard
668  13-  Rd. and lying east of Robinson Church Rd.
     06
     4-   Extending the corporate limits of the town to include property lying and being in
669  10-  No. 1 Township of Cabarrus Co., NC, on the southwest side of Hickory Ridge Rd. (SR
     06   1138) and on the east side of Robinson Church Rd. (SR 1138).
     4-   Extending the corporate limits of the town to include 32.965 acres lying and being
670  10-  in Township 1, Cabarrus Co., NC, and being east of Robinson Church Rd. and
     06   bordered by Futa Creek.
671  10-  Annexing certain territory beginning at a 3/4 inch iron pin in the north right-of-
     9-06 way of Stallings Road.
          Annexing certain territory beginning at an iron on the north edge of the Rocky
672  1-8- River Road (SR 1139) (said iron being located S. 72-26 W. 516.05 feet from an iron
     07   pin located in the center of the intersection of the Rocky River Road and the
          Robinson Church Road (SR 1168)).
          Annexing certain territory beginning at a No. 4 rebar, said rebar being the common
673  1-8- boundary line between the property now or formally of S. Russell Mickle and wife,
     07   Pauline L. Mickle (Deed Book 395, Page 169) and E.J. Russell (Deed Book 514, Page
          397).
674  1-8- Annexing certain territory beginning at a point in a road leading southeast from
     07   the Harrisburg-Rocky River Church Road, a new corner of Hoyt McCachern.
     1-8- Annexing certain territory beginning at an existing nail in Rocky River Road
675  07   (public right-of-way), said nail being located south 71-44-41 west 8,529.35 feet
          (ground distance) from North Carolina geodetic Survey control monument “Pembrook”.
          Annexing certain territory beginning at a point on the northerly town limits line
676  6-4- of Harrisburg, N.C. said point being also on the easterly property line of Emmy L.
     07   Pharr, said point being located N. 27-28 W. 160 - ft. from the northerly R/W line
          of N.C. Hwy. 49.
     8-   Annexing certain territory beginning at the intersection of the center line of
677  13-  Rocky River Church Road and the centerline of Hickory Ridge Road and runs thence
     07   with the centerline of Rocky River Road.
     8-   Annexing certain territory beginning at an existing iron rod at the common corner
678  13-  of Lot 15, Rocky River Acres, Section 3 recorded in Map Book 15, Page 37 and Lot
     07   6.
     1-   Annexing certain property beginning at an existing iron rod set on the northerly
679  14-  right-of-way of River Road (being also SR 1139) with a 60 foot public right-of-
     08   way.
     5-   Annexing certain territory beginning at a point located the following courses and
680  12-  distances from an existing iron rod near the center line of Millbrook Road, State
     08   Road No. 1812 (formally House Road).
     5-
681  12-  Annexing the following territories:
     08
          (1) Beginning at an iron stake, the NW corner of Helen Ray Therrell’s Lot #1 of
          the former Kerr Bleachery property, approximately 10 - ft. north of the edge of
          the northerly right-of-way of SR #1166.
          (2) Beginning at an iron stake within an old field road, the NW corner of John L.
          Lentz Lot #2, Tract 1 above, and running thence, from the beginning point with
          said field road and with the westerly line of Lot #2, crossing SR #1166.
          Annexing a certain territory beginning at a nail set in the centerline of Hickory
682  3-9- Ridge Road, on the bridge over Back Creek, said point being the southeastern
     09   corner of the property of Lee H. Quay, as forth in Book 165, page 106 of the
          Cabarrus Public Registry.
     7-   Annexing certain territory beginning at an existing iron rebar located at the
683  13-  western corner of the property of Larry Eugene Frady Sr. and wife, Cynthia Gaye
     09   (now or formally).
     7-   Annexing certain territory beginning at an unmarked point in the centerline of
684  12-  Rocky River Road.
     10
     7-   Annexing certain property containing approximately 30.2316 acres and shown as
685  12-  “Tract 1” on the plat entitled “Record Plat, Rocky River Road - Map 1” and
     10   recorded in Map Book 57, pages 24 and 25, in the Cabarrus County Public Registry.
          Annexing certain property beginning at an existing rebar in the southwest corner
     8-9- of the property of C. Lindsay Abee and wife, Terry D. Abee, recorded in Deed Book
686  10   573, Page 38 (Lot 11 in Map Book 19, Page 18), in the County Public Registry,
          being approximately 37.43 acres, except a portion of the property containing
          approximately 0.118 acres.
     10-  Annexing certain territories to be known as “Canterfield Estates East and West,”
687  11-  containing 166.76 acres, and “The Sloop Estates at Rocky River Crossing,”
     10   containing approximately 1.90 acres.
     1-   Annexing certain property being all of Lot 15 of Oak Hollow Subdivision, as
688  17-  recorded in Map Book 39, page 99, in the Cabarrus County Register of Deeds.
     11
     6-   Annexing certain property beginning at an iron pipe in the westerly margin of the
689  13-  subject property and the easterly margin of the property of Eugene W. Cochrane,
     11   Jr., now or formerly, as shown in Deed Book 1948, Page 133, in the Cabarrus County
          Public Registry, and being approximately 4.13 acres.
     12-  Annexing certain property beginning at an existing rebar in the southwesterly
690  12-  corner of the property of C. Lindsay Abee and wife, Terry D. Abee, recorded in
     11   Deed Book 573, Page 38, and shown as Lot 11 in Map Book 19, Page 18, in the
          Cabarrus County Public Registry, and being approximately 0.118 acres.
     12-  Annexing certain property being a 59.61-acre parcel lying predominantly north of
691  12-  Rocky River Road (S.R. 1139) and east of Pharr Mill Road (S.R. 1158) and beginning
     11   at a mag nail in the center of Rocky River Road, less certain parcels and rights-
          of-way.
692  1-9- Annexing the following territories:
     12
          (1) Beginning at an iron found in the right-of-way known as McCorkle Drive at the
          southwest corner of property of Franklin H. Reynolds (now or formerly), as in Book
          1530, Page 119, Cabarrus County Registry, and containing approximately 33.247
          acres.
          (2) Beginning at a pipe found at GPS station No. 1082, and containing
          approximately 108.988 acres.
     4-9- Annexing certain properties, each being a part of the property of Margaret Ann
693  12   Stallings (Book 2970, Page 304, Tract 2), containing approximately 1.38 acres
          north of Stallings Road and approximately 1.77 acres south of Stallings Road.
     1-   Annexing territory described as lying in Number 1 Township of Cabarrus County, on
694  14-  the south side of Stallings Road and being all of Lot Number 89 on the final
     13   subdivision plan of Stallings Glen, Phase One, Map Two.
     2-   Annexing territory described as lying in Number 1 Township, Cabarrus County, and
695  11-  being all of Lot 90 of Stallings Glenn, Phase I, Map 2.
     13
     3-   Annexing territory described as lying in Number 1 Township of Cabarrus County, on
696  11-  the east side of Robinson Church Road, and being all of Lot Number 2, containing
     13   approximately 1.01 acres.
     5-   Annexing territory described as beginning at a rebar within the right-of-way of
697  13-  Lippard Lane, the old northeastern corner of Edward J. Heavner, and containing
     13   approximately 5.00 acres.
     6-   Annexing territory as described in Deed book 9824, Page 299, Tract VIII, as
698  10-  recorded in Cabarrus County Record, also being that same parcel of land as
     13   recorded in Deed Book 26997, Page 208, Tract VII, of the M3ecklenburg County
          Record, containing approximately 1.728 acres.
     5-   Annexing territory described as lying in Township No. 1, Cabarrus County, measured
699  12-  from a nail set at the intersection of the centerline of Robinson Church Road, and
     14   the centerline of Fuda Creek (a.k.a. Footy Creek), containing 88.42 acres.
          Annexing territory within Tract #5 of the Kerr Industries property described in
     5-   Deed Book 445, Page 642, containing 4.756 acres outside of Tom Query Road, plus an
6991 12-  additional 0.235 acre within that same right-of-way; save and except for that
     14   property described in the deed to Keith and Lisa Eads recorded in Book 7324, Page
          27.
     8-   Annexing territory described as lying in Township No. 1, Cabarrus County, measured
6992 11-  from an existing crimped pipe located in the rear line of Lot 12 Block “H” of
     14   Cabarrus Woods, containing 284.98 acres.
     8-   Annexing territory beginning at a 1.5-inch pipe containing 177.340 acres, more or
6993 11-  less.
     14
     4-   Annexing territory described as lying in Township No. 1, Cabarrus County on the
6994 13-  northeast side of the county road running from Harrisburg to North Carolina
     15   Highway No. 27 and being part of the lands conveyed to J.D. Blume and Kathryn
          Harris Blume, and containing 2.17 acres.
     7-   Annexing territory described as lying in No. 1 Township, Cabarrus County and being
6995 13-  all of Lot 1 of the property of Joe B. Harris and Linda M. Harris.
     15
     10-  Annexing property described as Lot 12, Block M, Cabarrus Woods Section V, Map 2,
6996 12-  as recorded in Map Book 15, Page 48, in the Cabarrus County Public Registry.
     15
          Annexing four tracts of land, described as follows: (1) lying on the north side of
          Rocky River Church Road (SR 1139) and on the south side of Stallings Road (SR
     1-   1161), adjoining the property of Clinton E. Alexander; (2) on the south side of
6997 11-  Stallings Road (SR 1161), adjoining the property of Presbyterian Church of the
     16   Cross; (3) on the north side of Rocky River Church Road (SR 1139), adjoining the
          property of Rocky River Acres subdivision; and (4) on the north side of the Rocky
          River - Harrisburg Road and being part of the property as conveyed by E.T. Bost
          and wife and H.M. McCachern and wife.
     4-   Annexing certain property containing 2, 371 square feet and as described by metes
6998 11-  and bounds in the ordinance codified herein.
     16
     7-
6999 11-  Annexing Hickory Ridge Middle School and Hickory Ridge High School.
     16
     9-
7000 12-  Annexing 4.316-acre tract formerly owned by Venture Church of Harrisburg.
     16
     11-
7001 14-  Annexing 1.73 acres at 4313 Bellegrove Court.
     16
     11-
7002 14-  Annexing 1.663 acres at 8760 Robinson Church Road.
     16
7003 1-9- Annexing certain property containing 28.2337 acres as described by metes and
     17   bounds in Ordinance 7003.
     3-   Annexing certain property containing 7.2214 acres off Harrisburg Veterans Road as
7004 13-  described by metes and bounds in Ordinance 7004.
     17
     3-   Annexing certain property containing approximately 35.34 acres located at 8800
7005 13-  Hickory Ridge Road.
     17
7006 5-8- Annexing certain property containing approximately 15.05 acres located at the
     17   terminus of Farmington Ridge Parkway on the Cabarrus/Mecklenbur g County line.
     6-   Annexing various parcels of property as described by metes and bounds in Ordinance
7007 10-  7007.
     17
7008 10-  Annexing certain property containing approximately 3.039 acres (Venture Church II
     9-17 Annexation).
     11-  Annexing certain property containing approximately 2 acres as described by metes
7009 13-  and bounds in Ordinance 7009.
     17
     2-   Annexing certain property containing approximately 28.65 acres located off
7010 12-  Robinson Church Road.
     18
     3-   Annexing various parcels of property as described by metes and bounds in Ordinance
7011 12-  7011.
     18
7012 10-  Annexing property as described in Ordinance passed October 8, 2018.
     8-18
     1-
7013 13-  Annexing property as described by metes and bounds in Ordinance 7013.
     20
7014 11-  Annexing certain property containing approximately 34.17 acres as described by
     9-20 metes and bounds in Ordinance 7014.
7015 3-8- Annexing certain property containing 9.150 acres as described by metes and bounds
     21   in Ordinance 7015.
     4-   Annexing certain property containing approximately 2.46 acres as described by
7016 12-  metes and bounds in Ordinance 7016.
     21
     5-   Annexing certain property containing approximately 352.111 and 17.367 acres as
7017 10-  described by metes and bounds in Ordinance 7017.
     21
     7-   Annexing certain property containing approximately 52.172 acres as described by
7018 12-  metes and bounds in Ordinance 7018.
     21
     7-   Annexing certain property containing approximately 2.371 acres as described in
7019 12-  metes and bounds in Ordinance 7019.
     21
7020 11-  Extending the corporate limits of the town.
     8-21
         
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to General Statutes of North Carolina
References to Ordinances
References to Resolutions
REFERENCES TO GENERAL STATUTES OF NORTH CAROLINA
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section          Code Section
14, Art. 27A          97.12
14, Art. 36A          130.01
                      10.99,
                      50.99,
                      51.99,
                      53.076,
                      90.99,
                      91.99,
                      92.08,
14-4                  92.99,
                      93.99,
                      94.99,
                      95.010,
                      98.20,
                      98.99,
                      99.99,
                      111.99,
                      130.99
14-4(b)               70.05,
                      70.99
14-208.18             97.12
14-208.18(a)(1)       97.12
14-208.18(a)(2)       97.12
14-208.18(a)(3)       97.12
14-286                95.004,
                      95.005
14-410                95.009
14-414                95.009
15, Art. 4A           98.15
15-27.2               53.062
15A-1340.2 et seq.    97.12
Ch. 20                74.05
20-169                73.01
20-171.2              73.01
20-257                95.006
20-4.01(12a)          74.02
58-79-1 et seq.       95.073
58-82-1               95.003
69-1 et seq.          95.044
69-39                 95.002
Ch. 93B               110.07
95-173 et seq.        95.010
113A-85               53.010
121-5                 110.17
143, Art. 33C         97.12
143-214.7             53.002
143-215.75            95.080
143-215.77            95.080
153-364               95.073
153A-123(d) and (e)   98.99
153A-351              95.073
160-411               95.073
160A, Art. 10         98.19
160A, Art. 16         53.090
160A, Art. 19, Part 6 98.01
160A-93               92.07
160A-124              95.073
160A-174              53.002
                      51.99,
160A-175              92.99,
                      95.010
160A-175(c)           70.05
160A-175(d)           110.99
160A-175(e)           51.99
160A-175(g)           95.010
160A-185              53.002
160A-193              53.076,
                      95.084
160A-303(a)           90.02
160A-303(b)           90.01
160A-314              51.71,
                      53.090
160A-360              53.005
160A-388b             53.024
160A-392              53.005
160A-441              98.01
160A-443              98.16
160A-443(5)           98.18
160A-443(6)           98.19
160A-444              98.01
160A-446(e)           98.16
160A-446(f)           98.16
160A-446(g)           98.16
162A-88               51.70
                      
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
100.1    6-14-73     30.01
400      10-8-73     Ch. 72, Sch. I
101      12-10-73    30.01
500      12-10-73    Ch. 130
600      5-27-74     T.S.O. I
601      8-12-74     T.S.O. I
2        12-19-74    Ch. 72, Sch. I
501      2-9-76      93.01 -
                     93.07
502      2-9-76      92.01 -
                     92.08
503      7-11-77     91.01
                     51.01,
                     51.03 -
                     51.07,
                     51.09 -
—      1-13-79     51.15,
                     51.17 -
                     51.20,
                     51.30 -
                     51.34
700      7-9-79      51.02,
                     51.16
—      11-12-79    32.01
—      2-11-80     92.01 -
                     92.08
—      11-10-80    51.16
—      3-8-82      50.55 -
                     50.72
602      4-12-82     T.S.O. I
603      4-12-82     T.S.O. I
604      10-11-82    T.S.O. I
—      11-22-82    51.16
                     90.01,
504      3-14-83     90.02,
                     90.04
505      3-14-83     71.01
—      3-28-83     51.16
—      12-12-83    50.01
605      6-10-85     T.S.O. I
                     50.15 -
—      9-9-85      50.20,
                     50.43 -
                     50.43
507      10-14-85    90.03
508      11-11-85    70.01
                     51.01,
                     51.03 -
                     51.07,
                     51.09 -
—      4-14-86     51.15,
                     51.17 -
                     51.20,
                     51.30 -
                     51.34
1        5-12-86     Ch. 72, Sch. I
6        5-12-86     Ch. 72, Sch. I
—      10-13-86    50.01
606      5-11-87     T.S.O. I
                     51.01,
                     51.03 -
                     51.07,
                     51.09 -
—      5-20-87     51.15,
                     51.17 -
                     51.20,
                     51.30 -
                     51.34
—      8-10-87     50.03
—      9-14-87     51.35
                     51.01,
                     51.03 -
                     51.07,
                     51.09 -
—      7-11-88     51.15,
                     51.17 -
                     51.20,
                     51.30 -
                     51.34
607      9-12-88     T.S.O. I
608      9-12-88     T.S.O. I
—      12-12-88    50.02
—      11-12-90    51.11
509      2-11-91     Ch. 52
401      3-11-91     70.04
512      9-9-91      94.08
402      9-9-91      71.02 -
                     71.10
—      - -         Adopting Ordinance
609      9-9-91      T.S.O. I
—      3-8-93      Ch. 92
610      8-9-93      T.S.O. I
—      11-8-93     52.01,
                     52.02
611      12-13-93    T.S.O. I
613      5-10-94     T.S.O. I
614      7-11-94     T.S.O. I
615      9-12-94     T.S.O. I
616      10-10-94    T.S.O. I
617      3-13-95     T.S.O. I
618      11-13-95    T.S.O. I
—      4-8-96      10.99
—      4-8-96      91.01,
                     91.99
—      4-8-96      94.01
—      4-8-96      99.99
619      7-22-96     T.S.O. I
620      7-22-96     T.S.O. I
621      7-22-96     T.S.O. I
622      10- -96     T.S.O. I
—      12-9-96     93.10,
                     93.11
623      3- -97      T.S.O. I
624      3- -97      T.S.O. I
625      6-23-97     T.S.O. I
—      7-1-97      51.31
—      11-10-97    70.05
626      12-8-97     T.S.O. I
627      1-12-98     T.S.O. I
628      2-9-98      T.S.O. I
629      4-13-98     T.S.O. I
630      5-11-98     T.S.O. I
631      7-13-98     T.S.O. I
632      7-13-98     T.S.O. I
633      7-13-98     T.S.O. I
634      10-12-98    T.S.O. I
635      10-12-98    T.S.O. I
636      11-9-98     T.S.O. I
637      2-8-99      T.S.O. I
—      9-14-98     52.01
—      12-28-98    51.70 -
                     51.73
—      3-8-99      Ch. 96
—      3-15-99     92.09
—      10-11-99    51.70
638      4-19-99     T.S.O. I
639      8-9-99      T.S.O. I
640      1-10-00     T.S.O. I
641      3-13-00     T.S.O. I
642      9-11-00     T.S.O. I
643      12-11-00    T.S.O. I
644      12-11-00    T.S.O. I
645      3-12-01     T.S.O. I
646      5-14-01     T.S.O. I
647      5-14-01     T.S.O. I
                     50.44,
                     51.31,
—      7-1-01      51.32,
                     51.35,
                     51.36
648      7-9-01      T.S.O. I
649      8-13-01     T.S.O. I
                     51.02,
—      12-10-01    51.11,
                     51.16
650      1-4-02      T.S.O. I
—      7-1-02      51.31
—      8-1-02      Ch. 72, Sch. I
651      8-12-02     T.S.O. I
—      9-9-02      Ch. 72, Sch. I
—      10-14-02    Ch. 72, Sch. I
                     97.01 -
—      10-14-02    97.10,
                     97.99
652      10-14-02    T.S.O. I
653      8-1-03      T.S.O. I
654      9-1-03      T.S.O. I
655      1-1-04      T.S.O. I
656      3-1-04      T.S.O. I
657      7-1-04      T.S.O. I
—      7-29-04     52.03,
                     52.99
—      6-13-05     90.01
                     50.03,
—      3-13-06     51.11 -
                     51.13,
                     51.31
658      11-8-06     T.S.O. I
659      2-14-05     T.S.O. I
660      2-14-05     T.S.O. I
661      2-14-05     T.S.O. I
662      2-14-05     T.S.O. I
663      9-12-05     T.S.O. I
664      9-12-05     T.S.O. I
665      10-1-05     T.S.O. I
666      3-1-06      T.S.O. I
667      3-1-06      T.S.O. I
668      2-13-06     T.S.O. I
669      4-10-06     T.S.O. I
670      4-10-06     T.S.O. I
671      10-9-06     T.S.O. I
672      1-8-07      T.S.O. I
673      1-8-07      T.S.O. I
674      1-8-07      T.S.O. I
675      1-8-07      T.S.O. I
676      6-4-07      T.S.O. I
677      8-13-07     T.S.O. I
678      8-13-07     T.S.O. I
679      1-14-08     T.S.O. I
680      5-12-08     T.S.O. I
681      5-12-08     T.S.O. I
—      10-13-08    51.31
                     95.001 -
                     95.015,
                     95.040,
                     95.041,
—      10-13-08    95.044 -
                     95.046,
                     95.070 -
                     95.087,
                     95.101 -
                     95.104
—      11-10-08    97.12
—      1-12-09     52.01,
                     52.02
—      2-9-09      51.50 -
                     51.61
682      3-9-09      T.S.O. I
                     53.001 -
                     53.011,
                     53.020 -
                     53.024,
                     53.040 -
—      5-11-09     53.043,
                     53.060 -
                     53.066,
                     53.075 -
                     53.077,
                     53.090 -
                     53.098
—      5-11-09     50.85 -
                     50.88
—      6-8-09      51.32
—      7-13-09     51.17
683      7-13-09     T.S.O. I
—      9-14-09     Ch. 72, Sch. I
684      7-12-10     T.S.O. I
685      7-12-10     T.S.O. I
686      8-9-10      T.S.O. I
687      10-11-10    T.S.O. I
688      1-17-11     T.S.O. I
689      6-13-11     T.S.O. I
                     98.01 -
—      10-10-11    98.23,
                     98.99
690      12-12-11    T.S.O. I
691      12-12-11    T.S.O. I
692      1-9-12      T.S.O. I
                     99.01,
—      3-12-12     99.99,
                     130.02
693      4-9-12      T.S.O. I
2013-01  1-14-13     70.04
694      1-14-13     T.S.O. I
695      2-11-13     T.S.O. I
696      3-11-13     T.S.O. I
697      5-13-13     T.S.O. I
698      6-10-13     T.S.O. I
—      9-9-13      95.074
—      10-14-13    92.02,
                     92.99
—      4-14-14     95.070
699      5-12-14     T.S.O. I
6991     5-12-14     T.S.O. I
—      12-8-14     30.01
6992     8-11-14     T.S.O. I
6993     8-11-14     T.S.O. I
6994     4-13-15     T.S.O. I
6995     7-13-15     T.S.O. I
—      10-12-15    32.02
6996     10-12-15    T.S.O. I
—      11-9-15     51.17
—      11-9-15     91.01
6997     1-11-16     T.S.O. I
—      3-14-16     73.01
6998     4-11-16     T.S.O. I
                     110.01 -
—      5-9-16      110.25,
                     110.99
—      6-13-16     30.02
6999     7-11-16     T.S.O. I
                     50.44,
—      8-8-16      51.32,
                     51.36,
                     53.095
7000     9-12-16     T.S.O. I
7001     11-14-16    T.S.O. I
7002     11-14-16    T.S.O. I
7003     1-9-17      T.S.O. I
7004     3-13-17     T.S.O. I
7005     3-13-17     T.S.O. I
7006     5-8-17      T.S.O. I
7008     10-9-17     T.S.O. I
7009     11-13-17    T.S.O. I
7010     2-12-18     T.S.O. I
7011     3-12-18     T.S.O. I
—      3-12-18     93.12
—      3-12-18     74.01 -
                     74.05
—      4-9-18      93.12
—      5-14-18     30.02
7012     10-8-18     T.S.O. I
                     111.01 -
—      11-12-19    111.08,
                     111.99
                     53.003 -
                     53.005,
                     53.007,
                     53.009 -
                     53.011,
—      1-3-20      53.020,
                     53.021,
                     53.040 -
                     53.044,
                     53.060 -
                     53.066
7013     1-13-20     T.S.O. I
7014     11-9-20     T.S.O. I
7015     3-8-21      T.S.O. I
7016     4-12-21     T.S.O. I
7017     5-10-21     T.S.O. I
7018     7-12-21     T.S.O. I
7019     7-12-21     T.S.O. I
                     53.001 -
                     53.011,
                     53.020 -
                     53.024,
                     53.040 -
—      9-13-21     53.044,
                     53.060 -
                     53.066,
                     53.075 -
                     53.077,
                     53.110
7020     11-8-21     T.S.O. I
                     10.99,
                     50.36,
                     50.41,
                     50.43,
                     50.62,
                     50.88,
                     50.99,
                     51.18 -
                     51.20,
                     51.54 -
                     51.56,
                     51.99,
                     53.076,
                     90.02,
                     90.03,
                     90.99,
                     91.01,
                     91.99,
                     92.08,
                     93.02,
                     93.10 -
                     93.12,
                     93.99,
                     94.99,
—      4-11-22     95.001 -
                     95.015,
                     95.070,
                     95.076,
                     95.103,
                     95.105,
                     96.03,
                     96.04,
                     96.06 -
                     96.09,
                     96.99,
                     97.02 -
                     97.10,
                     97.99,
                     98.03 -
                     98.12,
                     98.15,
                     98.16,
                     98.99,
                     99.01,
                     99.99,
                     110.99,
                     111.99,
                     130.01,
                     130.02,
                     130.99
                    
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
—      11-12-90    50.03
—      9-8-75      93.20-
                     93.30
—      11-12-89    93.20-
                     93.30
—      3-12-90     93.20-
                     93.30
                     Charter, §§
—      3-12-01     3.2 and
                     3.4
                     Charter, §§
                     2.1,
                     2.2,
                     3.1,
—      7-13-15     3.3,
                     3.4,
                     3.7,
                     4.1,
                     6.1 -
                     6.7
                    
 
