COUNTY OF JOHNSTON, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Published by Order of the Board of Commissioners
Current with legislation passed through December 13, 2023
Supplement No. 32
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
OFFICIALS
of the
COUNTY OF JOHNSTON, NORTH CAROLINA
R.S. "Butch" Lawter, Jr., Chairman , Chairman
 
Patrick E. Harris, Vice Chairman
 
Ted G. Godwin
Fred J. Smith, Jr.
Richard D. Braswell
April Stephens
Bill Stovall
Board of Commissioners 
____________
 
Rick J. Hester
County Manager 
 
____________
 
Jennifer Slusser
County Attorney
____________
 
Dana Cuddington
Clerk to the Board
PREFACE
This Code constitutes a codification of the general and permanent ordinances of
the County of Johnston, North Carolina.
Source materials used in the preparation of the Code were the book of
ordinances, as supplemented through February 12, 2001, and ordinances
subsequently adopted by the board of commissioners. The source of each section
is included in the history note appearing in parentheses at the end thereof.
The absence of such a note indicates that the section is new and was adopted
for the first time with the adoption of the Code. By use of the comparative
tables appearing in the back of this Code, the reader can locate any section,
as supplemented, and any subsequent ordinance included herein.
The chapters of the Code have been conveniently arranged in alphabetical order,
and the various sections within each chapter have been catchlined to facilitate
usage. Notes which tie related sections of the Code together and which refer to
relevant state law have been included. A table listing the state law citations
and setting forth their location within the Code is included at the back of
this Code.
Chapter and Section Numbering System 
The chapter and section numbering system used in this Code is the same system
used in many state and local government codes. Each section number consists of
two parts separated by a dash. The figure before the dash refers to the chapter
number, and the figure after the dash refers to the position of the section
within the chapter. Thus, the second section of chapter 1 is numbered 1-2, and
the first section of chapter 6 is 6-1. Under this system, each section is
identified with its chapter, and at the same time new sections can be inserted
in their proper place by using the decimal system for amendments. For example,
if new material consisting of one section that would logically come between
sections 6-1 and 6-2 is desired to be added, such new section would be numbered
6-1.5. New articles and new divisions may be included in the same way or, in
the case of articles, may be placed at the end of the chapter embracing the
subject, and, in the case of divisions, may be placed at the end of the article
embracing the subject. The next successive number shall be assigned to the new
article or division. New chapters may be included by using one of the reserved
chapter numbers. Care should be taken that the alphabetical arrangement of
chapters is maintained when including new chapters.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A NEW CODE FOR THE COUNTY OF JOHNSTON, NORTH
CAROLINA; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED THEREIN;
PROVIDING A PENALTY FOR THE VIOLATION THEREOF; PROVIDING FOR THE MANNER OF
AMENDING SUCH CODE; AND PROVIDING WHEN SUCH CODE AND THIS ORDINANCE SHALL
BECOME EFFECTIVE.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE JOHNSTON COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS:
Section 1. The Code entitled "Code of Ordinances, County of Johnston, North
Carolina," published by Municipal Code Corporation consisting of chapters 1
through 24, each inclusive, is adopted.
Section 2. All ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted on or
before January 14, 2002, and not included in the Code or recognized and
continued in force by reference therein, are repealed.
Section 3. The repeal provided for in section 2 hereof shall not be construed
to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent
ordinance that is repealed by this ordinance.
Section 4. Unless another penalty is expressly provided, every person violating
any provision of the Code or any ordinance, rule or regulation adopted or
issued in pursuance thereof shall be punished by a civil penalty of $500.00. No
criminal penalty shall be applicable unless stated in the particular section of
the code. Failure to pay any civil penalty imposed by this Code constitutes a
misdemeanor as provided in G.S. 14-4. Each act of violation and each day upon
which any such violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. The
penalty provided by this section, unless another penalty is expressly provided,
shall apply to the amendment of any Code section, whether or not such penalty
is reenacted in the amendatory ordinance. In addition to the penalty prescribed
above, the county may pursue other remedies such as abatement of nuisances,
injunctive relief and revocation of licenses or permits.
Section 5. Additions or amendments to the Code when passed in such form as to
indicate the intention of the board of commissioners to make the same a part of
the Code shall be deemed to be incorporated in the Code, so that reference to
the Code includes the additions and amendments.
Section 6. Ordinances adopted after January 14, 2002, that amend or refer to
ordinances that have been codified in the Code shall be construed as if they
amend or refer to like provisions of the Code.
Section 7. This ordinance shall become effective on the date of adoption.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Johnston County Board of Commissioners this 4th day
of March 2002.
/s/    By: James H. Langdon Jr.
   Chairperson
   Johnston County
   Board of Commissioners
SUPPLEMENT HISTORY TABLE
The table below allows users of this Code to quickly and accurately determine
what ordinances have been considered for codification in each supplement.
Ordinances that are of a general and permanent nature are codified in the Code
and are considered "Included." Ordinances that are not of a general and
permanent nature are not codified in the Code and are considered "Omitted."
In addition, by adding to this table with each supplement, users of this Code
of Ordinances will be able to gain a more complete picture of the Code's
historical evolution.
 Date Adopted Included/Omitted Supp. No.
          Date Adopted Included/Omitted Supp. No.
Amend. of 1-3-2011     Included         18
Amend. of 2-7-2011     Included         18
Ord. of   3-7-2011     Included         18
Amend. of 5-2-2011     Included         18
Amend. of 9-6-2011     Included         19
Ord. of   1-15-2012    Included         20
Ord. of   6-4-2012     Included         20
Ord. of   7-2-2012     Included         20
Ord. of   8-6-2012     Included         20
Ord. of   9-4-2012     Included         21
Ord. of   12-3-2012    Included         21
Ord. of   3-4-2013     Included         21
Ord. of   4-1-2013     Included         21
Ord. of   5-6-2013     Included         22
Ord. of   6-3-2013     Included         22
Ord. of   7-1-2013     Included         22
Ord. of   1-6-2014     Included         23
Ord. of   1-6-2014     Included         23
Ord. of   2-3-2014     Included         23
Ord. of   2-3-2014     Included         23
Ord. of   4-7-2014     Included         23
Ord. of   4-7-2014     Included         23
Ord. of   12-1-2014    Included         24
Ord. of   9-1-2015     Included         24
Amend. of 3-7-2016     Included         25
Amend. of 11-7-2016    Included         25
Amend. of 2-6-2017     Included         26
Amend. of 3-5-2018     Included         26
Amend. of 4-2-2018     Included         26
Ord. of   8-6-2018     Included         27
Amend. of 3-4-2019     Included         27
Amend. of 12-2-2019    Included         28
Amend. of 8-3-2020     Included         28
Amend. of 8-3-2020     Included         28
Amend. of 8-3-2020     Included         28
Amend. of 10-5-2020    Included         28
Amend. of - -          Included         29
Amend. of 12-6-2021    Included         30
Amend. of 7-18-2022    Included         31
Amend. of 5-1-2023     Included         31
Amend. of 10-2-2023    Included         32
Amend. of 12-13-2023   Included         32
                                      
 
Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Sec.
1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
   Sec.
1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
   Sec.
1-3. - Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances.
   Sec.
1-4. - Catchlines of sections; history notes and references.
   Sec.
1-5. - Severability of parts of Code.
   Sec.
1-6. - General penalty; enforcement of ordinances; continuing violations;
recovery of investigative costs.
   Sec.
1-7. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
   Sec.
1-8. - Supplementation of Code.
   Sec.
1-9. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
   The ordinances embraced in this and the following chapters and sections
shall constitute and be designated as the "Code of Ordinances, County of
Johnston, North Carolina," and may be so cited.
   State law reference—Admission of Code in evidence, G.S. 160A-79.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
   In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the following
definitions and rules of construction shall be observed, unless inconsistent
with the manifest intent of the county commissioners or the context clearly
requires otherwise:
   Board. The terms "board" and "the board" shall mean the members of the
governing body of the County of Johnston.
   Bond. When a bond is required, an undertaking in writing shall be
sufficient.
   Code. The term "Code" shall mean the Code of Ordinances, County of Johnston,
North Carolina, as designated in section
1-1.
   Commissioners. The terms "commissioners" and "board of commissioners" shall
mean the members of the governing body of the County of Johnston, North
Carolina.
   Computation of time. The term "computation of time" means the time within
which an act shall be computed consistent with G.S. 1-593.
   State law reference—Computation of time, G.S. 1-593.
   County. The term "the county" shall mean the County of Johnston in the State
of North Carolina.
   County limits. The term "county limits" shall mean the legal boundary of the
County of Johnston.
   Gender. Terms importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine and
neuter.
   G.S. and General Statutes. The abbreviation "G.S." and the term "General
Statutes" shall mean the latest edition of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, as amended.
   Governor. The terms "governor" and "the governor" shall mean the Governor of
North Carolina.
   Health director. The term "health director" shall mean the Johnston County
Health Director or any duly authorized person who may represent him.
   Joint authority. All terms giving a joint authority to three or more persons
or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
persons or officers.
   May, shall. The term "may" is permissive; the term "shall" is mandatory.
   Number. Terms used in the singular include the plural, and the plural
includes the singular number.
   Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all
cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath; and in
such cases the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms
"affirm" and "affirmed."
   Official time standard. The term "official time standard" means that
whenever certain hours are named in this Code, they shall mean standard time or
daylight saving time as may be in current use in this county.
   Officials, boards, commissions, etc. Whenever reference is made to
officials, boards, commissions, committees and the like, by title only, they
shall be construed as if followed by the words "of the County of Johnston,
North Carolina" except for those authorities or other entities which are
regional in nature.
   Owner. The term "owner," applied to any property, shall include any part
owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety,
of the whole or a part of such property.
   Person. The term "person" shall include a corporation, firm, partnership,
association, organization and any other group acting as a unit, as well as an
individual.
   Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of
property except real property.
   Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" shall mean next
before and next after, respectively.
   Property. The term "property" shall include real and personal property.
   Residence. The term "residence" shall mean the place adopted by a person as
his place of habitation and to which, whenever he is absent, he has the
intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another,
the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his residence.
   Resolution. Any action taken by the board of commissioners in legislative
session other than adoption of ordinances.
   Right-of-way. The term "right-of-way" shall mean the privilege of the
immediate use of the roadway.
   Roadway. The term "roadway" shall mean that portion of a road improved,
designed or ordinarily used for vehicular traffic.
   Schedule of fees and charges. The term "schedule of fees and charges" shall
mean the official consolidated list compiled and published by the city which
contains rates for utility and other public enterprises, fees, deposit amounts
and various charges as determined by the governing body, an official copy of
which is maintained in the office of the city clerk, where it is available for
reference and review during normal business hours.
   Shall, may. The term "shall" is mandatory, the term "may" is permissive.
   Signature and subscription. The terms "signature" and "subscription" include
a mark when the person cannot write.
   State. The terms "state" and "this state" shall be construed to mean the
State of North Carolina, except as otherwise provided.
   Tenant and occupant. The terms "tenant" and "occupant," applied to a
building or land, shall include any person who occupies the whole or a part of
such building or land, whether alone or with others.
   Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as
the past and present.
   Writing, written. The terms "writing" and "written" shall include printing
and any other mode of representing words and letters.
   Year. The term "year" shall mean a 12-month period, unless otherwise
specified.
   State law reference—Similar rules of construction of statutes, G.S. 160A-1.
Sec. 1-3. - Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances.
   The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as those
of ordinances adopted prior to the adoption of this Code and included in this
Code, shall be considered as continuations of this Code and not as new
enactments.
Sec. 1-4. - Catchlines of sections; history notes and references.
   (a)   The catchlines of the several sections of this Code are intended as
mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed
or taken to be titles of such sections nor as any part of the section; nor,
unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such
sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
   (b)   The history notes following sections and the references and notes
scattered throughout the Code are not part of the Code but are merely for the
benefit of the user of the Code.
Sec. 1-5. - Severability of parts of Code.
   It is declared to be the intention of the county commissioners that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are
severable; and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this
Code shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the judgment or
decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or
invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences,
paragraphs and sections of this Code, since they would have been enacted by the
board of commissioners without the incorporation in this Code of any such
unconstitutional or invalid phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
Sec. 1-6. - General penalty; enforcement of ordinances; continuing violations;
recovery of investigative costs.
   (a)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, violation of any provision of
this Code or any other county ordinance shall subject the offender to a civil
penalty of $500.00; except, that where the General Statutes of North Carolina
provide specific remedies for violations of provisions of this Code adopted
pursuant to such statutes, such remedies available to the county for
enforcement of this Code shall be in addition to the remedies stated in this
section. No criminal penalties shall be applicable unless stated in this Code
as being applicable to specific chapters, sections, or provisions of this Code.
   (b)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, violation of any provision of
the North Carolina Building Code pertaining to fire safety or fire prevention
and subject to county jurisdiction shall subject the offender to a civil
penalty of up to $250.00; except, that where the G.S. of North Carolina provide
specific remedies for violations of provisions of this Code adopted pursuant to
such statutes, such remedies available to the county for enforcement of this
Code shall be in addition to the remedies stated in this section. No criminal
penalties shall be applicable unless stated in this Code as being applicable to
specific chapters, sections, or provisions of this Code.
   (c)   Any failure to pay any civil penalty imposed within this Code is a
misdemeanor under G.S. 14-4 and punishable by a fine of $500.00 or 30 days in
jail, or both.
   (d)   In addition to any civil or criminal penalties set out in this
section, any provision of this Code or any other county ordinance may be
enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issuing from a court of competent
jurisdiction. In such case, the general court of justice shall have
jurisdiction to issue such orders as may be appropriate; and it shall not be a
defense to the application of the county for equitable relief that there is an
adequate remedy at law.
   (e)   In addition to any civil or criminal penalties set out in this
section, any provision of this Code or any other county ordinance that makes
unlawful a condition existing upon or use made of real property may be enforced
by injunction and order of abatement; and the general court of justice shall
have jurisdiction to issue such orders. When a violation of such a provision
occurs, the county may apply to the appropriate division of the general court
of justice for a mandatory or prohibitory injunction and order of abatement
commanding the defendant to correct the unlawful condition upon or cease the
unlawful use of the property. The action shall be governed in all respects by
the laws and rules governing civil proceedings, including the Rules of Civil
Procedure in general and Rule 65 in particular.
   (f)   In addition to any civil or criminal remedies set out in this section
the county, in its sole discretion, may seek, as an alternative and/or
additional relief the recovery of its actual investigative cost where:
   (1)   The person responsible for the violation has received at least one
notice of violation or citation prior to the enforcement action in which
investigative cost are being sought;
   (2)   Those administrative costs are determined to be greater than $250.00.
   In the event a violation of this Code of Ordinances is determined to exist
by a court of competent jurisdiction, the person subject to the enforcement
action taken by the county shall be liable for the county's reasonable
attorney's fees in accordance with North Carolina law.
   (g)   The provisions of this Code and any other county ordinances may be
enforced by one, all or a combination of the remedies authorized and prescribed
by this section; except that any provision the violation of which incurs a
civil penalty shall not be enforced by criminal penalties except as outlined in
subsection (c) of this section.
   (h)   Except as otherwise specifically provided, each day's continuing
violation of any provision of this Code or any other county ordinance shall be
a separate and distinct offense.
   (i)   Upon determination of a violation of any section of this Code for
which no penalty is specified, the penalty for which is a civil penalty under
this section, the county may cause a warning citation to be issued to the
violator, setting out the nature of the violation, the section violated, the
date of the violation and an order to immediately cease the violation or, if
the violation is in the nature of an infraction for which an order of abatement
would be appropriate in a civil proceeding, stating a reasonable period of time
in which the violation must be abated. The warning citation may specify that a
second citation may incur a civil penalty.
   (j)   Upon failure of the violator to obey the warning citation pursuant to
subsection (i) of this section, a civil citation may be issued by the
appropriate official of the county and either served directly on the violator
or his duly designated agent, or registered agent if a corporation, in person
or posted in the United States mail service by first class mail addressed to
the last known address of the violator as contained in the records of the
county, or obtained from the violator at the time of issuance of the warning
citation. If the violator fails to respond to a citation within the period set
out in the citation, the county may institute a civil action in the nature of a
debt pursuant to subsection (a) of this section.
(Amend. of 10-13-2003, § 1; Amend. of 6-2-2008(1); Amend. of 12-6-2021)
   State law reference—Similar provisions, G.S. 160A-175; penalty for violation
of county ordinances, G.S. 14-4; enforcement of ordinances, G.S. 153A-123.
Sec. 1-7. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
   (a)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system of and printed for inclusion in this Code. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion of a chapter, section
or subsection, such repealed portions may be excluded from this Code by
omission from reprinted pages. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and
printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of
such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code by the county
commissioners.
   (b)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code shall be made by
amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
Code in the following language: "That section ____________ of the Code of
Ordinances, County of Johnston, North Carolina, is hereby amended to read as
follows:." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (c)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added,
the following language shall be used: "That the Code of Ordinances, County of
Johnston, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered
____________, which such section reads as follows:." The new section shall then
be set out in full as desired.
   (d)   All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed
must be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the
case may be.
Sec. 1-8. - Supplementation of Code.
   (a)   By contract or by county personnel, supplements to this Code shall be
prepared on an annual basis. A supplement to the Code shall include all
substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the board of
commissioners during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made
by the supplement in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered
that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace
pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete; and the new pages shall
be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current
through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the
supplement.
   (b)   In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by their omission from
reprinted pages.
   (c)   When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
   (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
   (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and
other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in
such catchlines, headings and titles.
   (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers.
   (4)   Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to
"this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or
to "sections ____________ to ____________" (inserting section numbers to
indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the
ordinance incorporated into the Code).
   (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original
meanings of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but in no case shall the
codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material
included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code upon notification to
the county attorney.
Sec. 1-9. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
   Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed
to repeal or otherwise affect the validity, authority or enforceability of any
of the following:
   (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this Code;
   (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of
money for the county or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county or
any evidence of the county's indebtedness;
   (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the county;
   (4)   Any ordinance or resolution fixing the salary of any county officer or
employee;
   (5)   Any right or franchise granted by the county;
   (6)   Any ordinance related to the naming of any roads or public way in the
county;
   (7)   Any appropriation ordinance;
   (8)   Any ordinance or resolution which, by its own terms, is effective for
a stated or limited term;
   (9)   Any ordinance or resolution providing for local improvements and
assessing taxes for such improvements;
   (10)   Any ordinance or resolution dedicating or accepting any subdivision
plat;
   (11)   Any ordinance or resolution related to the boundaries of the county;
   (12)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the county not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code;
   (13)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code;
   (14)   Any personnel ordinance or resolution;
   (15)   Growth management residential development allocation system;
nor shall such ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part of an
ordinance that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by
this chapter; and all such ordinances are recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this section.
   State law reference—Statutes not repealed by General Statutes, G.S. 164-7.
Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION [1] 
   (1) Cross reference—Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing
the payment of money for the county or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of
the county or any evidence of the county's indebtedness saved from repeal, §
1-9(2); any contract or obligation assumed by the county saved from repeal, §
1-9(3); any ordinance or resolution fixing the salary of any county officer or
employee saved from repeal, §
1-9(4); the administrative ordinances or resolutions of the county not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code saved from repeal, §
1-9(12); civil emergencies,
ch. 8; county emergency services advisory committee, §
10-13; administration of flood damage prevention regulations, §
14-434 et seq.; administration of land development code regulations, §
14-591 et seq.; utilities,
ch. 24; schedule of fees and charges,
app. A; personnel ordinance,
app. B; administration and maintenance of personnel regulations,
app. B, art. III, § 2.
   (1) State Law reference—Authority to organize county government, G.S. 153A-
76 et seq.
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL
   Sec.
2-1. - Purpose.
   Sec.
2-2. - Adoption of county manager plan.
   Secs. 2-3—2-30. - Reserved.
Sec. 2-1. - Purpose.
   It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to formally adopt for the
county the method of county manager plan of administration provided in G.S.
153A-81 et seq.
(Ord. of 1-5-1987)
Sec. 2-2. - Adoption of county manager plan.
   The county manager plan of administration, as provided for in G.S. 153A-82,
is adopted and the authorities contained in such plan shall apply to the county
manager to the same extent as if set forth fully in this section.
(Ord. of 1-5-1987)
Secs. 2-3—2-30. - Reserved. 
ARTICLE II. - LEGISLATIVE BODY [2] 
   (2) Editor's note—This referendum was passed by the voters on November 6,
1990.
   (2) State Law reference—Modifications in the structure of the board of
commissioners, G.S. 153A-60 et seq.
   Sec.
2-31. - Residency and representation requirements; terms.
Sec. 2-31. - Residency and representation requirements; terms.
   (a)   County commissioners shall reside in and represent the following
districts:
   District 1. Wilders and O'Neals Townships and the portion of Beulah Township
in North Beulah precinct.
   District 2. Selma and Micro Townships and the portion of Beulah Township in
South Beulah precinct.
   District 3. Boon Hill, Bentonville and Ingrams Townships.
   District 4. Meadow, Banner and Pleasant Grove Townships and the portion of
Elevation Township in South Elevation precinct.
   District 5. Cleveland Township, the portion of Elevation Township in North
Elevation precinct, and the portion of Smithfield Township in South and East
Smithfield precincts.
   District 6. Wilson's Mills and Pine Level Townships and the portion of
Smithfield Township in North Smithfield precinct.
   District 7. Clayton Township.
   (b)   One commissioner shall be elected to represent each of the seven
districts. A person must reside in a district to be eligible to be a candidate
to represent that district, however, all seven offices shall be voted upon by
all eligible voters of the county in both the primary and general election.
   (c)   Commissioners shall be elected for four-year staggered terms.
(Res. of 9-4-1990)
Chapter 3 - AGRICULTURE
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL
   Secs. 3-1—3-24. - Reserved.
Secs. 3-1—3-24. - Reserved. 
ARTICLE II. - VOLUNTARY AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY
   Sec.
3-25. - Title.
   Sec.
3-26. - Authority.
   Sec.
3-27. - Purpose.
   Sec.
3-28. - Definitions.
   Secs. 3-29—3-39. - Reserved.
Sec. 3-25. - Title.
   [This article shall be known as and may be cited as] An ordinance of the
Board of County Commissioners of Johnston County, North Carolina, entitled
"voluntary agricultural district ordinance."
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 1, Art. I)
Sec. 3-26. - Authority.
   The divisions and sections of this article are adopted pursuant to authority
conferred by the G.S. 106-735 through 106-744 and G.S. chapter 153A.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 2, Art. II)
Sec. 3-27. - Purpose.
   The purpose of this article is to promote agricultural values and the
general welfare of the county and, more specifically, increase identity and
pride in the agricultural community and its way of life; and encourage the
economic and financial health of agriculture.
   This article establishes a voluntary agricultural district program that has
the following benefits for participating farmers and other county residents:
   •The program creates awareness of agricultural areas within the county.
   •The program informs nonfarming neighbors and potential land purchasers of
the presence of agricultural activities.
   •Participation in the program gives the farming community an opportunity to
provide input to Johnston County Commissioners in their decisions that may
affect agriculture.
   •Farmer participation in the program is voluntary and the farmer may
terminate his/her participation at any time.
   •The program helps maintain open space and natural resources as the county's
population and development expands.
   •The program maintains opportunities to produce locally grown food and
fiber.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 3, Art. III)
Sec. 3-28. - Definitions.
   The following are defined for purposes of this article:
   Advisory board: Johnston County Voluntary Agricultural District Advisory
Board.
   Board of commissioners: Johnston County Board of Commissioners.
   Chairperson: Chairperson of the Johnston County Voluntary Agricultural
District Advisory Board.
   District: Voluntary agricultural district as established by this article.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 4, Art. IV)
Secs. 3-29—3-39. - Reserved. 
DIVISION 2. - AGRICULTURAL ADVISORY BOARD
   Sec.
3-40. - Creation.
   Sec.
3-41. - Membership.
   Sec.
3-42. - Membership requirements.
   Sec.
3-43. - Tenure.
   Sec.
3-44. - Vacancies.
   Sec.
3-45. - Removal.
   Sec.
3-46. - Funding.
   Sec.
3-47. - Advisory board procedures.
   Sec.
3-48. - Duties.
   Secs. 3-49—3-64. - Reserved.
Sec. 3-40. - Creation.
   The board of commissioners shall establish an agricultural advisory board to
implement the provisions of this program.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 5, Art. V-A.)
Sec. 3-41. - Membership.
   The advisory board shall consist of no less than seven and no more than nine
members appointed by the board of commissioners with an effort to have the
broadest geographic representation and commodity interests as possible.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 5, Art. V-B.)
Sec. 3-42. - Membership requirements.
   (1)   Each advisory board member shall be a citizen of Johnston County.
   (2)   At least five of the members shall be actively engaged in farming. The
five members actively engaged in farming shall meet the eligibility criteria
for the Johnston County Voluntary Agricultural District Program and be selected
for appointment by the board of commissioners from the names of individuals
recommended to the board of commissioners by a representative from the Johnston
County Soil and Water Conservation District, the USDA-Natural Resources
Conservation Service, the cooperative extension service, the farm services
agency county committee and the Johnston County Farm Bureau. The additional
members shall have special interest, experience, or education in agriculture
and/or rural land preservation.
   (3)   At least one of the advisory board members actively engaged in farming
shall be nominated by the Johnston County Soil and Water Conservation District
Board of Supervisors.
   (4)   All members shall be selected for appointment by the Johnston County
Board of Commissioners as stated above.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 5, Art. V-C.)
Sec. 3-43. - Tenure.
   The initial board is to consist of two appointees for terms of one year; two
appointees for terms of two years; and three appointees for terms of three
years. Members shall serve at the pleasure of the board of commissioners.
Following the expiration of the initial term, all appointments thereafter shall
be for terms of three years. Length of tenure shall follow Johnston County
policy.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 5, Art. V-D.)
Sec. 3-44. - Vacancies.
   (1)   Any vacancy on the advisory board is to be filled by the board of
commissioners after consultation by the advisory board for the remainder of the
unexpired term.
   (2)   Any advisory board member may voluntarily resign by submitting a 30-
day written notice to the advisory board.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 5, Art. V-E.)
Sec. 3-45. - Removal.
   Any member of the advisory board may be removed by the board of
commissioners with cause upon a vote of the commissioners. The advisory board
may request in writing to the board of commissioners that a member be removed
for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office. The membership of
any advisory board member who is absent for three consecutive meetings may be
subject to removal, unless such absence is excused by the entire advisory board
for good and sufficient cause.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 5, Art. V-F.)
Sec. 3-46. - Funding.
   The per diem compensation, if any, of the members of the advisory board may
be fixed by the board of commissioners and funds may be appropriated to the
advisory board to perform its duties.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 5, Art. V-G.)
Sec. 3-47. - Advisory board procedures.
   (1)   Chairperson. The advisory board shall elect a chairperson and vice-
chairperson each year at its first meeting of the fiscal year. The chairperson
shall preside over all regular or special meetings of the advisory board. In
the absence or disability of the chairperson, the vice-chairperson shall
preside and shall exercise all the powers of the chairperson. Additional
officers may be elected as needed.
   (2)   Jurisdiction. The advisory board may adopt rules of procedure not
inconsistent with this article or with other provisions of state law.
   (3)   Advisory board year. The advisory board shall use the Johnston County
fiscal year as its meeting year, July 1 through June 30.
   (4)   Meetings. Meetings of the advisory board shall be held at the call of
the chairperson and at such other times as the advisory board may specify in
its rules of procedure or upon the request of at least a majority of the
advisory board membership. A meeting shall be held at least annually and notice
of any meetings to the members shall be in writing, unless otherwise agreed to
by all advisory board members. Meetings dates and times shall be posted as far
in advance as possible at the meeting site and by advertisement in local
newspapers or by other means of public dissemination of the meeting dates as
may be agreed upon by at least a majority of the advisory board membership
consistent with meetings law requirement. All meetings shall be open to the
public.
   (5)   Majority vote. All issues shall be decided by a majority vote of the
members of the advisory board, except as otherwise stated herein.
   (6)   Records. The advisory board shall keep minutes of the proceedings and
shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which
shall be filed in the office of the advisory board or its administrative agent
and shall be a public record.
   (7)   Administrative. The Johnston Soil and Water Conservation District
office will serve the voluntary agricultural district advisory board for record
keeping, correspondence, application procedures under this ordinance, and
whatever services the board needs to complete its duties.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 5, Art. V-H.)
Sec. 3-48. - Duties.
   The advisory board shall:
   (1)   Review and approve applications for qualified farmland and voluntary
agricultural districts and make recommendations concerning the establishment
and modification of agricultural districts;
   (2)   Conduct public hearings pursuant to division 7 of this article;
   (3)   Advise the board of commissioners on projects, programs, or issues
affecting the agricultural economy or activities within the county that will
affect agricultural districts;
   (4)   Review and make recommendations concerning proposed amendments to this
article.
   The advisory board may:
   (1)   Develop a draft countywide farmland protection plan as defined in G.S.
106-744 (e)(1) for presentation to the board of commissioners;
   (2)   Study additional methods of farmland preservation and make
recommendations to the board of commissioners; and
   (3)   Perform other agricultural related tasks or duties assigned by the
board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 5, Art. V-I.)
Secs. 3-49—3-64. - Reserved. 
DIVISION 3. - CREATION OF VOLUNTARY AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS
   Sec.
3-65. - Implementation.
   Sec.
3-66. - Education.
   Sec.
3-67. - Addition and withdrawal.
   Secs. 3-68—3-74. - Reserved.
Sec. 3-65. - Implementation.
   In order to implement the purposes stated in section
3-27, this program provides for the creation of voluntary agricultural
districts which meet the following standards:
   (1)   The district shall contain a minimum of 25 contiguous acres of
qualified farmland; or
   (2)   The district shall contain three or more qualified farms within one-
half mile of each other.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 6, Art. VI-A.)
Sec. 3-66. - Education.
   The county may take such action as it deems appropriate through the advisory
board or other entities or individuals to encourage the formation of the
district and to further its purposes and objectives, including the
implementation of a public information program to reasonably inform landowners
of the agricultural district program.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 6, Art. VI-B.)
Sec. 3-67. - Addition and withdrawal.
   (1)   Qualifying farmland may be added at any time to the district.
   (2)   In the event that one or more participants in the district withdraw
and the acreage in the district becomes less than the minimum acreage required
or results in the remaining land being noncontiguous, a voluntary agricultural
district will continue to exist so long as there is one qualifying farm.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 6, Art. VI-C.)
Secs. 3-68—3-74. - Reserved. 
DIVISION 4. - CERTIFICATION AND QUALIFICATION OF FARMLAND
   Sec.
3-75. - Requirements.
   Secs. 3-76—3-89. - Reserved.
Sec. 3-75. - Requirements.
To secure county certification as qualifying farmland, a farm must:
   (1)   Be engaged in agriculture as that word is defined in G.S. § 106-581.1;
as follows:
   N.C.G.S. § 106-581.1. Agriculture defined.
   For purposes of this Article, the terms "agriculture", "agricultural", and
"farming" refer to all of the following:
      (1)   The cultivation of soil for production and harvesting of crops,
including but not limited to fruits, vegetables, sod, flowers and ornamental
plants.
      (2)   The planting and production of trees and timber.
      (3)   Dairying and the raising, management, care, and training of
livestock, including horses, bees, poultry, and other animals for individual
and public use, consumption, and marketing.
      (4)   Aquaculture as defined in G.S. 106-758.
      (5)   The operation, management, conservation, improvement, and
maintenance of a farm and the structures and buildings on the farm, including
building and structure repair, replacement, expansion, and construction
incident to the farming operation.
      (6)   When performed on the farm, "agriculture", "agricultural", and
"farming" also include the marketing and selling of agricultural products,
agritourism, the storage and use of materials for agricultural purposes,
packing, treating, processing, sorting, storage, and other activities performed
to add value to crops, livestock, and agricultural items produced on the farm,
and similar activities incident to the operation of a farm. (1991, c. 81, s. 1;
2005-390, s. 18; 2006-255, s. 6.)
   (2)   Be certified by the USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service as
being a farm on which at least two-thirds of the land is composed of soils
that:
      a.   Are best suited for providing food, seed, fiber, forage, timber,
forestry products, horticultural crops, oil seed crops, livestock and poultry;
      b.   Have good soil qualities;
      c.   Are favorable for all major crops common to the county where the
land is located;
      d.   Have a favorable growing season; and
      e.   Receive the available moisture needed to produce high yields for an
average of eight out of ten years;
OR
   Have been actively used in agricultural, horticultural or forestry
operations as defined by G.S. 105-277.2 (1, 2, 3) during each of the five
previous years, measured from the date on which the determination must be made
as to whether the land in questions qualifies.
   (3)   Be managed, if highly erodible land exists on the farm, in accordance
with the USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service defined erosion-control
practices that are addressed to said highly-erodible land; and
   (4)   Be the subject of a conservation agreement, as defined in G.S. 121-35,
between the county and the owner of such land that prohibits non-farm use or
development of such land for a period of at least ten years, except for the
creation of not more than three lots that meet applicable county zoning and
subdivision regulations.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 7, Art. VII-A.; Ord. of 12-3-2012)
Secs. 3-76—3-89. - Reserved. 
DIVISION 5. - APPLICATION, APPROVAL, AND APPEAL PROCEDURE
   Sec.
3-90. - Application procedure.
   Sec.
3-91. - Approval process.
   Sec.
3-92. - Appeal.
   Secs. 3-93—3-124. - Reserved.
Sec. 3-90. - Application procedure.
   (1)   A landowner may apply to participate in the program by making
application to the chairperson of the advisory board or a designated staff
person. The application shall be on forms provided by the advisory board. The
application to participate in a district may be filed with the certification
for qualifying farmland.
   (2)   A conservation agreement to sustain, encourage, and promote
agriculture must be executed by the landowner and recorded with the Johnston
County Register of Deeds. Permitted uses include agriculture, horticulture,
crops, livestock, forestry and outdoor recreation.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 8, Art. VIII-A.)
Sec. 3-91. - Approval process.
   (1)   Upon submission of the application to the advisory board, the advisory
board shall meet within 90 days to approve or disapprove the application. The
chairperson shall notify the applicant by first class mail of approval or
disapproval of participation in the district.
   (2)   Upon receipt of an application, the chairperson will forward copies
immediately to the following offices which shall be asked to provide comments,
if any, to the advisory board prior to the date set for the advisory board to
vote on the application:
   (a)   The Johnston County Tax Assessor;
   (b)   The Johnston [County] Soil and Water Conservation District; and
   (c)   The USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 8, Art. VIII-B.)
Sec. 3-92. - Appeal.
   If an application is denied by the advisory board, the petitioner shall have
30 days to appeal the decision to the board of commissioners. Such appeal shall
be presented in writing. The decision of the board of commissioners is final.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 8, Art. VIII-C.)
Secs. 3-93—3-124. - Reserved. 
DIVISION 6. - REVOCATION AND RENEWAL OF CONSERVATION AGREEMENT
   Sec.
3-125. - Revocation.
   Sec.
3-126. - Renewal.
   Secs. 3-127—3-144. - Rserved.
Sec. 3-125. - Revocation.
   By providing 30 days' advance written notice to the advisory board, a
landowner of qualifying farmland may revoke the conservation agreement or the
advisory board may revoke the same conservation agreement based on
noncompliance by the landowner, subject to the same provisions as contained in
division 5 for appeal of denials. Such revocation shall result in loss of
qualifying farm status and loss of eligibility to participate in the district.
Absent noncompliance by the landowner, neither the advisory board nor the board
of commissioners shall revoke any conservation agreement prior to its
expiration.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 9, Art. IX-A.)
Sec. 3-126. - Renewal.
   Conservation agreements shall be deemed automatically renewed for an
additional term of ten years, unless either the advisory board or the landowner
gives written notice to the contrary no later than 30 days prior to the
termination date.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 9, Art. IX-B.)
Secs. 3-127—3-144. - Rserved. 
DIVISION 7. - PUBLIC HEARINGS
   Sec.
3-145. - Purpose.
   Sec.
3-146. - Procedure.
   Secs. 3-147—3-159. - Reserved.
Sec. 3-145. - Purpose.
   Pursuant to G.S 106-740, which provides that no state or local public agency
or governmental unit may formally initiate any action to condemn any interest
in qualifying farmland within the district until such agency or unit has
requested the advisory board to hold a public hearing on the proposed
condemnation.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 9, Art. IX-A.)
Sec. 3-146. - Procedure.
   (1)   Upon receiving a request, the advisory board shall publish notice
describing the proposed action in the appropriate newspapers of Johnston County
within five business days of the request, and will in the same notice notify
the public of a public hearing on the proposed condemnation, to be held within
ten days of receipt of the request.
   (2)   The advisory board shall meet to review:
   (a)   Whether the need for the project has been satisfactorily established
by the agency or unit of government involved, including a review of any fiscal
impact analysis conducted by the agency involved; and
   (b)   Whether there are alternatives to the proposed action that have less
impact and are less disruptive to the agricultural activities of the district
within which the proposed action is to take place.
   (3)   The advisory board may consult with the Johnston Soil and Water
Conservation District, the USDA-Natural Resources Conservation Service,
Johnston County Cooperative Extension Service and any other individuals,
agencies, or organizations deemed by the advisory board to be necessary for its
review of the proposed action.
   (4)   Within 30 days after the hearing, the advisory board shall make a
report containing its findings and recommendations regarding the proposed
action. The report shall be made available to the public prior to its being
conveyed to the decision-making body of the agency proposing the acquisition.
   (5)   There will be a period of ten days allowed for public comment on the
report of the advisory board.
   (6)   After the ten-day period for public comment has expired, the advisory
board shall submit a final report containing all of its findings and
recommendations regarding the proposed action to the decision-making body of
the agency proposing the acquisition.
   (7)   The total time period, from the day that a request for a hearing has
been received to the day that a final report is issued to the decision-making
body of the agency proposing the acquisition, shall not exceed 60 days. If the
agency agreed to an extension, the agency and the advisory board shall mutually
agree upon a schedule to be set forth in writing and made available to the
public.
   (8)   Pursuant to G.S. 106-740, the board of commissioners shall not permit
any formal initiation of condemnation by local agencies while the proposed
condemnation is properly before the advisory board.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 10, Art. X-B.)
Secs. 3-147—3-159. - Reserved.
DIVISION 8. - NOTIFICATION
   Sec.
3-160. - Record notice of proximity to voluntary agricultural district.
   Sec.
3-161. - Signage.
   Sec.
3-162. - Maps.
   Secs. 3-163—3-174. - Reserved.
Sec. 3-160. - Record notice of proximity to voluntary agricultural district.
   (1)   Procedure. upon certification of qualifying farmland and designation
of real property as a district, the title to that qualifying farmland and real
property, which is contained in the Johnston County Land Records System shall
include a notice reasonably calculated to alert a person researching the title
of a particular tract that such tract is located within one-half mile of the
voluntary agriculture district.
   (2)   Limit of liability. In no event shall the county or any of its
officers, employees, members of the advisory board, or agents be held liable in
damages for any misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance occurring in good
faith in connection with the duties or obligations imposed by this article.
   (3)   No cause of action. In no event shall any cause of action arise out of
the failure of a person researching the title of a particular tract to report
to any person the proximity of the tract to a qualifying farm or voluntary
agriculture district as defined in this article.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 11, Art. XI-A.)
Sec. 3-161. - Signage.
   Signs identifying approved agricultural district membership may be placed
along major roads that pass through or next to those districts. Members of the
agricultural district may place signs on their individual farms denoting their
agricultural district membership. Placement of signage shall be coordinated
with the North Carolina Department of Transportation and in accordance with the
Johnston County Land Development Code.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 11, Art. XI-B.)
Sec. 3-162. - Maps.
   Maps identifying approved agricultural districts shall be provided to the
following agencies or offices:
   (1)   Planning department;
   (2)   Register of deeds;
   (3)   Johnston Soil and Water Conservation District;
   (4)   North Carolina Cooperative Extension Service; and
   (5)   Any other such agency or office the advisory board deems appropriate.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 11, Art. XI-C.)
Secs. 3-163—3-174. - Reserved.
DIVISION 9. - SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE AND ZONING ORDINANCE REVIEW
   Sec.
3-175. - Preliminary development plans.
   Secs. 3-176—3-184. - Reserved.
Sec. 3-175. - Preliminary development plans.
   Developers of major subdivisions or planned unit developments shall
designate on preliminary development plans, the existence of the districts
within one-half aerial mile of the proposed development.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 12, Art. XII-A.)
Secs. 3-176—3-184. - Reserved.
DIVISION 10. - WAIVER OF WATER AND SEWER ASSESSMENTS
   Sec.
3-185. - No connection required.
   Sec.
3-186. - Abeyance.
   Sec.
3-187. - Termination of abeyance.
   Sec.
3-188. - Suspension of statute of limitations.
   Sec.
3-189. - Other statutory abeyance procedures.
   Sec.
3-190. - Conflict with water and/or sewer system construction and improvements
grants.
   Secs. 3-191—3-209. - Reserved.
Sec. 3-185. - No connection required.
   Parcels belonging to the district shall not be required to connect to
Johnston County water and/or sewer systems including, but not limited to,
reclaimed water for agricultural purposes.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 13, Art. XIII-A.)
Sec. 3-186. - Abeyance.
   Water and sewer assessments shall be held in abeyance, without interest, for
farms in an agricultural district, until improvements on such property are
connected to the water or sewer system for which the assessment was made.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 13, Art. XIII-B.)
Sec. 3-187. - Termination of abeyance.
   When the period of abeyance ends, the assessment is payable in accordance
with the terms set out in the assessment resolution.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 13, Art. XIII-C.)
Sec. 3-188. - Suspension of statute of limitations.
   Statutes of limitations are suspended during the time that any assessment is
held in abeyance without interest.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 13, Art. XIII-D.)
Sec. 3-189. - Other statutory abeyance procedures.
   Nothing in this section is intended to diminish the authority of the county
to hold assessments in abeyance under G.S. 153A-201, or other applicable law.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 13, Art. XIII-E.)
Sec. 3-190. - Conflict with water and/or sewer system construction and
improvements grants.
   To the extent that this section conflicts with the terms of federal, state,
or other grants under which county water and/or sewer systems are constructed,
this section shall not apply.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 13, Art. XIII-F.)
Secs. 3-191—3-209. - Reserved.
DIVISION 11. - COUNTY LAND-USE PLANNING
   Sec.
3-210. - Duty of the advisory board.
   Sec.
3-211. - Posting of notice.
   Sec.
3-212. - Growth corridors.
   Secs. 3-213—3-224. - Reserved.
Sec. 3-210. - Duty of the advisory board.
   It shall be the duty of the advisory board to advise the board of
commissioners or the agency or office to which the board of commissioners
delegates authority to oversee county land-use planning on the status,
progress, and activities of the county's agricultural district program and to
also coordinate the formation and maintenance of the agricultural district with
the county's land-use planning activities and the county's land-use plan if one
currently exists at the time this article is enacted or when one is formed.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 14, Art. XIV-A.)
Sec. 3-211. - Posting of notice.
   The following notice, of a size and form suitable for posting, shall be
posted in the office of the register of deeds and any other agency the advisory
board deems necessary:
   Johnston County has established a Voluntary Agricultural District to
increase awareness and help protect agricultural lands and activities. The
District has been developed and mapped by the county to inform all purchasers
of real property that certain agricultural and forestry activities, including
but not limited to: pesticide spraying, manure spreading, machinery and truck
operation, livestock operations, sawing, and other common farming activities
may occur in the District any time during the day or night. Maps and
information on the location and establishment of the District can be obtained
from the Johnston Soil and Water Conservation District office, or the USDA-
Natural Resources Conservation Service.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 14, Art. XIV-B.)
Sec. 3-212. - Growth corridors.
   At such time as the county might establish designated growth corridors,
agricultural district membership will not be permitted in the designated growth
corridors, as delineated on the official county planning map, without the
approval of the board of commissioners. District members located in growth
corridors designated after the effective date of this program may remain, but
shall not be expanded within the growth corridor area without the approval of
the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 14, Art. XIV-C.)
Secs. 3-213—3-224. - Reserved.
DIVISION 12. - CONSULTATION AUTHORITY
   Sec.
3-225. - Consultation authority.
   Secs. 3-226—3-234. - Reserved.
Sec. 3-225. - Consultation authority.
   The advisory board may consult with the Johnston Soil and Water Conservation
District, the USDA-Natural Resources Conservation Service, the Cooperative
Extension Service, the North Carolina Department of Agriculture and Consumer
Services, and with any other individual, agency, or organization the advisory
board deems necessary to properly conduct its business.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 15, Art. XV)
Secs. 3-226—3-234. - Reserved.
DIVISION 13. - NORTH CAROLINA AGENCY NOTIFICATION
   Sec.
3-235. - Annual report to the North Carolina Department of Agriculture and
Consumer Services.
   Secs. 3-236—3-249. - Reserved.
Sec. 3-235. - Annual report to the North Carolina Department of Agriculture and
Consumer Services.
   Upon adoption of the ordinance and any subsequent amendment, a copy shall be
sent to the Office of the North Carolina Commissioner of Agriculture and
Consumer Services. At least annually, the advisory board shall submit a written
report to the Commissioner of Agriculture and Consumer Services on the county's
agricultural district program, including the following information:
   (1)   Number of landowners enrolled;
   (2)   Number of acres enrolled;
   (3)   Number of acres certified;
   (4)   Number of acres denied during the reporting period;
   (5)   Number of acres for which applications are pending;
   (6)   Copies of any amendments to the ordinance;
   (7)   Any other information the advisory board deems useful.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 16, Art. XVI-A.)
Secs. 3-236—3-249. - Reserved.
DIVISION 14. - LEGAL PROVISIONS
   Sec.
3-250. - Severability.
   Sec.
3-251. - Conflict with other ordinances and statutes.
   Sec.
3-252. - Amendments.
   Secs. 3-253—3-264. - Reserved.
Sec. 3-250. - Severability.
   If any division, section, subsection, clause, phrase, or portion of this
article is for any reason found invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this article.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 17, Art. XVII-A.)
Sec. 3-251. - Conflict with other ordinances and statutes.
   Whenever the provisions of this article conflict with other ordinances of
Johnston County, this article shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any
federal or state statute require more restrictive provisions than are required
by this article, the provisions of such statute shall govern.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 17, Art. XVII-B.)
Sec. 3-252. - Amendments.
   This article may be amended from time to time by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 17, Art. XVII-C.)
Secs. 3-253—3-264. - Reserved.
DIVISION 15. - ENACTMENT
   Sec.
3-265. - Adoption; enactment.
Sec. 3-265. - Adoption; enactment.
   The Johnston County Board of Commissioners hereby adopts and enacts the
preceding articles and sections of this article.
(Ord. of 5-1-2006, § 18, Art. XVIII)
Chapter 4 - ANIMALS [3] 
   (3) Editor's note—Amend. of 03-01-2010, adopted March 1, 2010, amended
Ch. 4 in its entirety and enacted similar provisions as set out herein. The
former Ch. 4 derived from Ord. of 5-8-2000(1), §§ 1—20, 22; and Amend. of 9-3-
2004.
   (3) Cross reference—Environment,
Ch. 12.
   (3) State Law reference—Abuse of animals, G.S. 153A-127; dangerous animals,
G.S. 153A-131.
   Sec.
4-1. - Creation of County Animal Services Department.
   Sec.
4-2. - Duties.
   Sec.
4-3. - Definitions.
   Sec.
4-4. - Repealed.
   Sec.
4-5. - Penalty for violations.
   Sec.
4-6. - Rabies tag.
   Sec.
4-7. - Rabies vaccination and control.
   Sec.
4-8. - Wearing of collar; tags and identification required.
   Sec.
4-9. - At large animals off-premises and not under direct control.
   Sec.
4-10. - Vicious animals.
   Sec.
4-11. - Teasing and molesting.
   Sec.
4-12. - Nuisance ordinance enforcement.
   Sec.
4-13. - Dangerous dogs.
   Sec.
4-14. - Cruel treatment.
   Sec.
4-14A.   Abandonment.
   Sec.
4-15. - Confinement and control of inherently dangerous mammals.
   Sec.
4-16. - Keeping stray animals; failure to surrender.
   Sec.
4-17.   Impounding animals.
   Sec.
4-18.   Redemption procedure for impounded animals.
   Sec.
4-19.   Exemptions.
   Sec.
4-20.   Interference.
   Sec.
4-21.   Records.
   Sec.
4-22.   Fees.
Sec. 4-1. - Creation of County Animal Services Department.
   There is created an Animal Services Department of the county which shall be
composed of such employees as shall be determined by the Board of County
Commissioners. These employees shall be appointed and compensated in accordance
with policies of the Board of County Commissioners.
(Amend. of 3-1-2010)
Sec. 4-2. - Duties.
   The Animal Services Department shall be charged with the responsibility of:
   (1)   Enforcing in the county all state or county laws, ordinances and
resolutions relating to the care, custody and control of animals.
   (2)   Cooperating with the Public Health Director and assisting in the
enforcement of the laws of the state with regard to animals, especially with
regard to vaccination of dogs, cats, and ferrets against rabies and the
confinement or leashing of vicious animals (without limiting the foregoing,
reference is particularly made to the state laws as set out and contained in
G.S. 130A-184 to 130A-201).
   (3)   Investigating cruelty to or abuse of animals.
   (4)   Making such canvasses of the county as it deems necessary for the
purpose of ascertaining that all dogs, cats, and ferrets are vaccinated against
rabies.
   (5)   Operating the county animal shelter pursuant to the policies of the
Board of County Commissioners.
   (6)   Giving every dog, cat, and ferret a rabies vaccination at the time of
redemption or adoption if it is four months of age or older. Reference files
will be maintained in connection therewith, all in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and the policies of the Board of County
Commissioners.
(Amend. of 3-1-2010; Amend. of 6-6-2016)
Sec. 4-3. - Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Abandon means to cease providing for the care, control or maintenance of an
animal without the transfer of ownership of such animal.
   Acts deemed public nuisance means any dog which habitually or repeatedly
chases, snaps at, attacks, or barks at pedestrians, bicyclists, or vehicles or
turns over garbage cans, damages vegetable or flower gardens, damages plant
beds, or damages or harasses livestock, or otherwise conducts itself so as to
be a public nuisance, or which habitually or repeatedly barks in such a manner
or to such an extent that it disturbs the peace and repose of a reasonable
person within the immediate vicinity. Additionally, a female dog running at
large while in heat is a public nuisance.
   Adequate food means the provision of foodstuff that is uncontaminated,
appropriate, palatable and of sufficient quality and nutritive value to
maintain the normal condition and weight of the animal. Food shall be provided
at suitable intervals or at least once a day, unless restricted by a
veterinarian. Food shall be served in a container that is readily accessible by
the animal, physically clean, and absent of agents injurious to the health of
the animal.
   Adequate water means constant access to a supply of clean, fresh, drinkable
water, unless restricted by a veterinarian, which is provided in a container
that is readily accessible by the animal, physically clean, and absent of
agents injurious to the health of the animal. The container must be secured in
a manner to prevent spilling.
   Adequate Shade for dogs means one (1) or more outside areas of shade, large
enough to contain at one time all dogs present and to protect them from the
direct rays of the sun. A dog house (defined as adequate shelter) shall not
constitute adequate shade. For all other species that, as determined by
species, require shade, adequate shade means one (1) or more outside areas of
shade large enough to protect all the animals present from the direct rays of
the sun.
   Adequate Shelter for dogs means a durable, enclosed, permanent structure, or
a structure manufactured to serve primarily as an outdoor shelter for a dog,
with a roof, at least four (4) sides, and a floor. The shelter shall be large
enough to allow all animals present to stand, turn and lie comfortably. For all
other animals, “adequate shelter” means an appropriate structure that provides
the animal protection and shelter, as determined by the animal’s species, from
heat and cold and from direct effect of wind, rain, and snow.
   Animal means any live, vertebrate creature, wild or domestic, other than
human beings.
   Animal Services Department Head means the person placed in charge of the
Johnston County Animal Services Department or his authorized representative.
   Animal Services Officer means a person employed by Johnston County to pick
up, restrain, impound, care for, adopt or dispose of animals, and who is
responsible for discharging such other duties or functions as may be prescribed
by this or any other county ordinance, or by state laws, or by the Animal
Services Department Head.
   Animal Shelter means any premises designated by the county for the purpose
of impounding and caring for all animals found running at large or otherwise
subject to impounding in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and
other law.
   At large means any animal off the property of his owner and not under the
direct control of a competent person, including but not limited to stray
animals.
   Cruelty (and it’s derivations such as “cruelly”) means an act unjustifiably
harming or endangering by any act of omission or commission the life, health or
safety of an animal.
   Direct control means an animal under restraint and in the custody of the
Owner of such animal, or other person who has assumed control of the animal.
   Exposed to rabies means an animal has been bitten by or been exposed to any
animal known or suspected by an animal services officer to have been infected
with rabies.
   Fee Schedule means any schedule of fees related to the administration of
this ordinance adopted by the Board of Commissioners, and made a part hereof as
Section 4-21.
   Fowl means chickens, guineas, ducks, pigeons,a nd other birds.
   Impoundment means placing an animal in an animal control vehicle or unit, or
holding an animal at the Animal Shelter, or holding an animal at any other
location pursuant to this Ordinance or at the direction of the Animal Services
Department Head.
   Inherently dangerous mammal means any live member of the canidae, felidae,
or ursidae families, including hybrids thereof, which, due to their inherent
nature, may be considered dangerous to humans and which include:
      (1)   Canidae, including any member of the dog (canid) family not
customarily domesticated by man, or any hybrids thereof, including wolf hybrids
which are a cross between a wolf and a domestic dog, but not including domestic
dogs (Canis Familiaris).
      (2)   Felidae, including any member of the cat family weighing over 15
pounds not customarily domesticated by man, or any hybrids thereof, but not
including domestic cats (Felis catus).
      (3)   Ursidae, including any member of the bear family, or any hybrids
thereof.
   Livestock includes, but is not limited to, equine animals, bovine animals,
sheep, goats, llamas, or swine.
   Neutered male means any male which has been operated upon to prevent
reproduction.
   Owner means any person, group of persons, firm, partnership, entity or
corporation owning, keeping, having charge of, sheltering, feeding, harboring
or taking care of any animal. The owner is responsible for the care, actions,
and behavior of his animals.
   Restraint means an animal controlled by means of a chain, leash or other
like device; is on or within a vehicle being driven or parked; or is within a
secure enclosure such as a cage, kennel, building or fence.
   Sanitary means a condition of such reasonable cleanliness so as to prevent
the transmission of disease, the breeding of insects, and harm to the animal,
and which does not pose an unreasonable risk to public health.
   Spayed female means any female which has been operated upon to prevent
conception.
   Stray dog means any dog within the county wandering at large, lost or
abandoned, and which does not have an Owner or any dog within the county whose
Owner fails to have such dog vaccinated against rabies. Any dog which is not
under direct control of a competent person or does not have a rabies tag on the
collar shall be deemed a stray dog.
   Tethered or tethering means attaching an animal to a stationary object by
means of a chain, cable, rope, or similar device.
   Transfer means to convey or change ownership from one person to another with
or without the exchange of money or other consideration.
   Vaccination means an injection of United States Department of Agriculture
approved rabies vaccine administered by a licensed veterinarian or certified
rabies vaccinator as defined in North Carolina General Statute § 130A-186.
(Amend. of 3-1-2010; Amend. of 6-6-2016; Amend. of 5-1-2023)
   Cross reference—Definitions generally, §
1-2.
Sec. 4-4. - Repealed.
Sec. 4-5. - Penalty for violations.
   Pursuant to the authority in G.S. 153A-123, unless otherwise provided for
within this chapter or by General Statute, any person in violation of this
chapter shall be subject to a civil penalty in the amount of $100.00 for a
first offense; $200.00 for a second offense; and $300.00 for a third and all
subsequent offenses. The civil penalty shall be imposed as provided in this
chapter and may be recovered by the county in the nature of a debt. This
chapter may be enforced by appropriate equitable relief, including injunctive
relief. An aggrieved party may appeal a civil citation to the Board of
Adjustment within thirty (30) days of receipt of the citation.
(Amend. of 3-1-2010; Amend. of 6-6-2016; Amend. of 12-6-2021)
Sec. 4-6. - Rabies tag.
   It shall be unlawful for any dog, cat, or ferret Owner to fail to comply
with the state laws relating to the control of rabies, and it shall be unlawful
for any dog, cat, or ferret Owner to fail to provide such dog, cat, or ferret
he owns with a suitable collar or harness for the wearing of the rabies tag to
be issued upon compliance with state law, and to take such action as is
necessary to see that the tag is worn by such dog, cat, or ferret at all times
except as otherwise provided in this chapter. It is the purpose of this chapter
to supplement the state law by providing a procedure for the enforcement of
state laws relating to rabies control. Unless proof of vaccinating is
available, it shall be the duty of the county administrative staff to give
every person who owns, redeems or adopts a dog, cat, or ferret a proof of
rabies vaccination card and a record will be maintained of the vaccination. In
addition to all other penalties prescribed by law, a dog, cat, or ferret is
subject to impoundment in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter if the
dog, cat, or ferret is found not to be wearing a currently valid rabies tag. It
shall be unlawful for any person to use or display a vaccination tag for a dog,
cat, or ferret other than the dog, cat, or ferret for which the tag was issued.
(Amend. of 3-1-2010; Amend. of 6-6-2016)
Sec. 4-7. - Rabies vaccination and control.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for an Owner to fail to show proof of current
vaccination against rabies (hydrophobia) with an approved vaccine for his dog,
cat, or ferret. Should it be deemed necessary by the county health director,
board of commissioners, or the state public health veterinarian that other pets
be vaccinated in order to prevent a threatened epidemic or to control an
existing epidemic, it shall be unlawful for an Owner to fail to provide for a
current inoculation against rabies for that animal.
      (1)   Bite cases; duty of Owner. Every animal which has bitten anyone or
which shows symptoms of rabies shall be confined immediately and shall be
promptly reported to the Animal Services Department by its Owner, by the person
bitten or by the treating physician; and thereupon the animal shall be securely
quarantined at the direction of the Animal Services Department for a period of
ten days, and shall not be released from such quarantine except by written
permission from the Animal Services Department Head. The biting animal and its
records of vaccination shall be inspected by the Animal Services Officer who
will then observe the following policy:
         a.   A properly vaccinated animal may be confined on the Owner’s
premises; provided that an Animal Services Officer determines that the Owner
has an adequate means of confinement upon his own premises and the animal is
subject to observation by the officer at any time during the ten-day period.
         b.   An animal not properly vaccinated shall immediately be confined
in a veterinary hospital or the county Animal Shelter, in which case the
expense shall be borne by the Owner for the ten-day confinement. The animal
shall not be vaccinated during confinement.
         c.   A stray dog shall immediately be confined in the county Animal
Shelter for a ten-day period.
      (2)   Surrender for quarantine required on demand. Except as provided in
subsection (1), it shall be unlawful for the Owner of an animal which has
bitten a human to refuse to surrender the animal for the purpose of supervised
quarantine by the Animal Services Department upon demand. The expense of such
supervised quarantine shall be borne by the Owner. If rabies does not develop
within the ten days, the animal may be reclaimed upon payment of a fee per day,
in an amount according to the Fee Schedule, and upon compliance with other
provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Rabies diagnosed. If an animal dies while under observation for
rabies, then the head of such animal must be submitted immediately to the state
laboratory of Hygiene for diagnosis.
      (4)   Emergency quarantine and procedure. When reports indicate a
positive diagnosis of rabies, the county Director of Public Health may order an
area-wide quarantine for a period as s/he deems necessary; in this event, no
animal within the effective area shall be allowed off of the Owner’s premises
during such time. During such quarantine, no animal may be taken or shipped
from the county without written permission from the Animal Services Department
Head. Any Animal Services Officer, the Animal Services Department Head, any
sworn police officer or officer of the sheriff's department is authorized
during such quarantine to impound any animal found running at large in the area
affected. During the quarantine the Animal Services Department Head or the
Director of Public Health shall be empowered to provide for mass immunization
by the establishment of temporary emergency rabies vaccination clinics. No
animal which has been impounded by reason of its being a stray, or at large and
is unclaimed by its Owner may be adopted from the Animal Shelter during the
quarantine, except by special authorization of the Director of Public Health or
the Animal Services Department Head.
      (5)   Infected animals to be destroyed; protection of vaccinated animals.
An animal bitten by a confirmed rabid animal or animal suspected of having
rabies that is not available for laboratory diagnosis shall be destroyed
immediately by its Owner, a county Animal Services Officer, or other law
enforcement officer unless the animal has been vaccinated against rabies in
accordance with this Chapter and the rules of the Commission more than three
weeks prior to being bitten, and is given a booster dose of rabies vaccine
within three days of the bite.
   (b)   If there are additional positive cases of rabies occurring during the
period of quarantine, such period of quarantine may be extended at the
discretion of the Director of Public Health. During the quarantine period the
Director of Public Health may require annual vaccinations against rabies.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill or release any animal
under observation for rabies, any animal suspected of having been exposed to
rabies, or any animal biting or which has bitten a human, or to remove such
animal from the county without written permission from the Animal Services
Department Head and the Director of Public Health.
   (d)   The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall be surrendered
to the Animal Services Department. The head of such animal shall be shipped to
the state laboratory of hygiene for diagnosis.
   (e)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to surrender any
animal for quarantine or destruction as required in this section when demand is
made therefore by the Animal Services Department Head or an Animal Services
Officer.
(Amend. of 3-1-2010; Amend. of 6-6-2016)
Sec. 4-8. - Wearing of collar; tags and identification required.
   Upon complying with the rabies vaccination provisions of this chapter, there
shall be issued to the Owner of the dog, cat, or ferret vaccination metallic
tags, stamped with the number and the year for which issued. It shall be
unlawful for any dog, cat, or ferret owner to fail to provide his dog, cat, or
ferret with a collar or harness to which current vaccination tag is securely
attached. A collar or harness with attached tags must be worn at all times.
Examples of improper collars include, but are not limited to, chains, wire, or
cords.
(Amend. of 3-1-2010; Amend. of 6-6-2016)
Sec. 4-9. - At large animals off-premises and not under direct control.
   It shall be unlawful for an Owner or any other person maintaining an animal
in the county to permit or negligently allow an animal to be at large. An Owner
may lawfully permit an animal which is not dangerous or vicious to be at large
in the course of a show, obedience school, tracking tests, field training, or
other events sanctioned or supervised by a recognized organization. Hunting
dogs may be at large in the course of hunting if under the control of the
owner. However, this provision does not exempt an owner from otherwise
complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(Amend. of 3-1-2010; Amend. of 6-6-2016)
Sec. 4-10. - Vicious animals.
   The Animal Services Department Head may exercise the authority granted to
the Public Health Director by G.S. 130A-200; provided, this does not in any way
limit the authority of the Public Health Director to exercise such authority.
(Amend. of 3-1-2010; Amend. of 6-6-2016)
Sec. 4-11. - Teasing and molesting.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tease or molest any animal not
belonging to him or legally under his control.
(Amend. of 3-1-2010; Amend. of 6-6-2016)
Sec. 4-12. - Nuisance ordinance enforcement.
   The Animal Services Department is authorized to enforce the provision of
Chapter 12, Article II of the Johnston County Code of Ordinances with regard to
noise made by animals.
(Amend. of 3-1-2010; Amend. of 6-6-2016)
Sec. 4-13. - Dangerous dogs.
   The Animal Services Department Head is designated as the person to be
responsible for determiningthat a dog is a "dangerous dog" or a "potentially
dangerous dog" as defined in G.S. 67-4.1. The Board of Adjustment is designated
as the board to which appeals may be taken pursuant to G.S. 67-4.1(c). When a
dog is declared to be potentially dangerous or dangerous, in addition to any
requirements of state law, the Owner must adhere to the following:
   (1)   Permanent identification mark required. Any dog declared dangerous or
potentially dangerous will be permanently identified by means of a tattoo
located on the inside thigh or by electronic implant. The cost of said tattoo/
implant will be paid for by the Owner. The Animal Services Department will
maintain a physical description and photograph of the dog. The Owner must allow
and assist the Animal Services Department in viewing the tattoo or reading the
electronic implant at such times as deemed reasonable or at such time as the
identification of the dog is in question.
   (2)   Signage. An owner of a dog that has been deemed potentially dangerous
or dangerous will place a "Beware of Dog" sign in plain view of the public.
Said signs will be placed in such a manner and of such size and clarity as to
be visible from the common entrance(s) to the property, specifically but not
limited to the drivewayThe Owner must also place a "Beware of Dog" sign on the
dog's pen. The owner has 20 days from the declaration of the dog as a
potentially dangerous or dangerous dog to comply.
   (3)   Sterilization. An owner of a dog that has been declared potentially
dangerous or dangerous will have their dog spayed or neuteredby a veterinarian
licensed to practice in the state within 20 days of the declaration. All fees
and costs are the responsibility of the Owner and must be paid in full to the
satisfaction of the veterinarian prior to release.
   (4)   A secure pen. The owner of a potentially dangerous or dangerous dog
will keep the dog in a secure enclosure that is constructed of materials strong
enough to contain the dog. The owner must comply within 20 days and must
construct any outdoor enclosure consistently with the following:
      a)   The enclosure shall be large enough for the dog (depending on the
size of the dog) to move around freely. It shall provide the dog with adequate
shelter and adequate shade.
      b)   The enclosure must have a floor, sides and a top from which the dog
cannot escape.
      c)   The enclosure shall be constructed of a six-foot-high fence at least
nine-gauge chain link. The enclosure will also have a fence or solid top
constructed of the same material.
      d)   The structure must be constructed so that the dog may not dig under
the sides. If the floor is constructed of dirt, the enclosure must include an
eight-foot fence with two feet buried in the ground or sunken into a concrete
pad which is 24 inches wide along the inside perimeter of the fence and four
inches thick.
   (5)   Inspection. The Animal Services Department Head may cause such
inspections as deemed appropriate to be made of the premises of an owner of a
potentially dangerous or dangerous dog to determine compliance with the
provisions of this section.
   (6)   Off Owner’s premises. Anytime the animal is off the owner's premises,
the dog will be on a secure collar and leash not to exceed six feet, wearing a
muzzle and restrained by a competent person.
   (7)   Relocation. An Owner of a potentially dangerous or dangerous dog must
notify the Animal Services Department at least three (3) working days prior to
moving the dog to a new address and give the Animal Services Department the new
address or location of the dog.
   (8)   Notification of death. The owner must notify the Animal Services
Department within ten days after the dog dies.
   (9)   Payment of annual dangerous dog registration fee. The Owner shall pay
annually a registration fee for each dangerous or potentially dangerous dog in
an amount set in the Fee Schedule.
   (10)   Possession. No potentially dangerous or dangerous dog may be given
away, sold, traded, placed for adoption, or otherwise transferred. The owner
must retain ownership, possession, and responsibility for the dog until the dog
dies or is surrendered to the Animal Services Department for euthanasia.
   (11)   Bites or attacks. If a dog that has been determined potentially
dangerous or dangerous subsequently bites or attacks a person, the dog will be
surrendered or seized for euthanasia and the owner will be cited for the
violation.
   (12)   Violation. Any violation of the terms of ownership of a "dangerous"
or "potentially dangerous" dog will result in a citation and civil penalty of
$500.00 per offense. The dog will be impounded and held until the violation is
remedied, except as provided in subsection (11) above, and all fees, fines and
penalties are paid in full. If the owner is found in violation of this section
more than once, the animal will be surrendered or seized for euthanasia.
(Amend. of 3-1-2010; Amend. of 6-6-2016)
Sec. 4-14. - Cruel treatment.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to treat any animal cruelly which
shall include, but not be limited to: fail to provide adequate shelter,
adequate shade, or adequate food, water, air, space, or necessary veterinary
care for an animal he or she owns; abandon any animal; subject any animal to
conditions detrimental to the health or general welfare of any animal; or to
cause or procure such act or omission. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to prohibit otherwise lawful shooting, hunting, or trapping of birds
or animals nor to prohibit the Animal Services Department or veterinarians from
trapping by cage traps, chemical immobilization or other acceptable means, or
destroying animals in a humane manner in accordance with this chapter or state
law.
   (b)   The following conditions shall not constitute adequate shelter:
      Metal barrels;
      Underneath outside steps, decks, or stoops;
      Inside of vehicles;
      Underneath vehicles;
      Inside metal containers; or
      Rooms, sheds, or other buildings or structures without windows or proper
ventilation.
It shall be unlawful not to have the dog house or shelter secured in a manner
as to keep the doghouse or shelter from tipping over, rolling away, or sliding
in such a way as to prevent or hinder the animal from being able to get inside.
   Chaining or tethering an animal to a stationary object for a period of time
or under conditions that an Animal Control Officer deems harmful or potentially
harmful to the animal is unlawful. Examples of improper chaining or tethering
include, but are not limited to the following:
      Using a length or weight of a chain or tether that is not appropriate for
the size, weight, and age of the animal;
      Attaching a chain or tether to a pinch, prong, or choke chain or other
training collars or devices;
      Allowing an animal to be chained or tethered such that the animal is not
confined to the Owner’s property or such that the chain or tether can become
painful or uncomfortable or will not allow access to adequate food, adequate
water, adequate shade, or adequate shelter;
      Using a chain as a primary collar.
It shall be unlawful for the animal’s enclosure, which includes any area to
which a chained or tethered animal has access, to be excessively muddy or
contain standing water, contain excessive excrement, or be otherwise
unsanitary. An animal’s enclosure shall be free of objects or contaminants that
are likely to cause injury or be detrimental to the health of the animal,
including but not limited to, rusty or jagged metal objects, broken glass, or
harmful chemicals or agents.
(Amend. of 3-1-2010; Amend. of 6-6-2016; Amend. of 5-1-2023)
Sec. 4-14A.   Abandonment.
   It shall be unlawful for any Owner of any animal to leave such animal on a
street, road, highway, or in a public place or on private property with intent
to abandon such animal except to relinquish the animal to the Animal Shelter
during normal business hours. If the Animal Services Department finds that an
animal has been abandoned, the animal may be impounded. If the animal has been
abandoned in a house or within a fenced area, the Animal Services Department
must make a reasonable effort to locate and contact the owner or manager of the
property. If the property owner or manager is not the animal Owner, then the
Animal Services Officer shall attempt to secure permission from the property
owner or manager to enter the property and remove the animal for impoundment.
If the Animal Services Officer is unable to locate or procure permission from
the property owner or the animal Owner, the Animal Services Officer shall
secure an appropriate warrant to seize the animal. An animal seized pursuant to
this section shall be impounded for a period of at least seventy-two (72)
hours. If the Owner contacts the Animal Services Department to reclaim the
animal, an explanation for the animal’s abandonment must be provided to the
satisfaction of the Animal Services Officer before the animal is released to
the Owner. If the animal is unclaimed by its Owner after being held for at
least seventy-two (72) hours, the animal may be placed for adoption or humanely
euthanized.
(Amend. of 6-6-2016)
Sec. 4-15. - Confinement and control of inherently dangerous mammals.
   (a)   Unlawful to keep inherently dangerous mammals. It shall be unlawful
for any Owner to keep an inherently dangerous mammal within the county.
   (b)   Exemptions. The following shall be exempt from this section:
      (1)   Any nonprofit entity which owns or harbors inherently dangerous
mammals for research, provided that such entity is licensed by the U.S.
Department of Agriculture or Interior.
      (2)   Traveling fairs, circuses and carnivals.
      (3)   Any inherently dangerous mammal registered with Animal Services
Department for which the Owner maintains adequate facilities for the care,
confinement, and housing of the animal.
   (c)   Recapturing. The Owner of any inherently dangerous mammal shall
reimburse the county for all costs incurred while attempting to recapture any
escaped inherently dangerous mammal. If the animal is sheltered or euthanized
by the Animal Services Department, the Owner shall reimburse the county for the
reasonable costs or providing such services.
(Amend. of 3-1-2010; Amend. of 6-6-2016)
Sec. 4-16. - Keeping stray animals; failure to surrender.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person in the county knowingly and
intentionally to harbor, feed, keep in possession by confinement, or otherwise,
any animal, which does not belong to him or her, unless he or she has, within
24 hours from the time the animal came into his or her possession, notified the
Johnston County Animal Services. Upon receiving notice, the Animal Services
shall take possession of the animal.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to surrender any stray
animal to an authorized representative of the Johnston County Sheriff's Office
or Animal Services upon demand of the representative.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person or organization to accept any
animal that is stray or where the owner has no proof of ownership of said
animal.
(Amend. of 5-1-2023)
Sec. 4-17. - Impounding animals.
   Any animal which appears to be lost, abandoned, at large or unwanted, or
which is found to be not wearing a currently valid tag in violation of Section
4-8, shall be confined in the Animal Shelter in a humane manner for redemption
by the Owner, sale, adoption, or destruction.
   (1)   Sale or destruction. If an impounded animal is not redeemed by the
Owner within seventy-two (72) hours, the animal shall be deemed abandoned and
disposed of in one of the following manners: adopted as a pet by a new owner;
sold to entities or institutions within this state registered by the United
States Department of Agriculture pursuant to the Federal Animal Welfare Act, as
amended; or put to death by a procedure approved by the American Veterinary
Medical Association, the Humane Society of the United States or the American
Humane Association. The Animal Services Department shall maintain a record of
all animals impounded under this section which shall include the date of
impoundment; the duration of impoundment, the method of disposal of the animal
and the name of the person, entity or institution to which any animal is
released. Exceptions. Any animal impounded due to the owner of that animal
being detained by law enforcement or due to a medical emergency must be
redeemed by the owner, or person authorized by the owner, within one hundred
and twenty (120) hours from the time of impoundment of that animal. At the end
of the minimum time period indicated herein, unclaimed animals shall be deemed
abandoned and the animal shall be disposed of in accordance with the Federal
Animal Welfare Act G.S. 19A-31.1F. The Animal Services Department shall
maintain a record of all animals impounded under this section which shall
include the date of impoundment, the duration of impoundment, the method of
disposal of the animal and the name of the person, entity or institution to
which any animal is released.
   (2)   Notifying Owner. Immediately upon impounding an animal, the Animal
Services Department shall make reasonable efforts to notify the Owner, and
inform such Owner of the conditions whereby the animal may be redeemed.
   (3)   Spaying and neutering of dogs and cats. The Animal Services Department
shall require that all adopted dogs and cats released from the Animal Shelter
be spayed or neutered.
   (4)   Suspected rabies. Animals impounded which have been bitten by a rabid
animal or appear to be suffering from rabies shall not be redeemed or sold, but
shall be dealt with as provided in Section
4-7.
   (5)   Vicious, diseased or injured animals. If an animal is surrendered by
the Owner to the Animal Services Department to be placed in a home or destroyed
in a humane manner, it may be disposed of immediately following a seventy-two
(72) hour holding period.
   (6)   Other diseased or injured animals. Any animal impounded which is badly
injured or diseased (not a rabies suspect) and has no identification shall be
euthanized immediately in a humane manner. If the animal has identification,
the Animal Services Department shall attempt to notify the Owner before
euthanizing the animal.
(Amend. of 3-1-2010; Amend. of 6-6-2016; Amend. of 5-1-2023)
Sec. 4-18. - Redemption procedure for impounded animals.
   When any animal has been impounded, notice thereof shall be given to the
Owner; or if the Owner is unknown or cannot with reasonable diligence be
ascertained, then notice thereof shall be posted for seventy-two (72) hours and
contain species of the animal, the time and place at which the animal was
seized, together with the time and date of posting the notice. The time for
redemption of the animal, as provided in this section, shall not begin to run
until such notice has been given or posted. The Owner shall be entitled to
resume possession of the animal, except as already provided for certain
animals, upon compliance with the provisions of this Chapter and the payment of
fees incurred according to the Fee Schedule and all other actual costs incurred
by the county in connection with the rescue, capture, recapture, shelter and
treatment. If applicable, each redeemed animal must be vaccinated against
rabies, prior to redemption, at which time the Owner will be given a proof of
rabies vaccination card and the Owner shall be responsible for the cost of the
vaccination.
(Amend. of 3-1-2010; Amend. of 6-6-2016; Amend. of 5-1-2023)
Sec. 4-19. - Exemptions.
   Hospitals, clinics and other premises operated by licensed veterinarians for
the care and treatment of animals are exempt from the provisions of this
chapter except for provisions of cruel treatment and manner of keeping animals
generally.
(Amend. of 3-1-2010; Amend. of 5-1-2023)
Sec. 4-20. - Interference.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, obstruct, hinder or
molest the Animal Services Department or its officers and agents, or
veterinarians in the performance of any duty authorized by this chapter, or
release, attempt to release, or procure another to release or attempt to
release any animal in the custody of the Animal Services Department except as
is provided in this chapter.
(Amend. of 3-1-2010; Amend. of 6-6-2016; Amend. of 5-1-2023)
Sec. 4-21. - Records.
   It shall be the duty of the Animal Services Department to keep, or cause to
be kept, accurate and detailed records of:
   (1)   Impoundment and disposition of all animals coming into the Animal
Shelter.
   (2)   Bite cases, violations, and complaint investigations.
   (3)   All monies belonging to the county which are derived from impoundment
fees, penalties and sales of animals.
   (4)   All other records deemed necessary by the county manager.
(Amend. of 3-1-2010; Amend. of 6-6-2016; Amend. of 5-1-2023)
Sec. 4-22.   Fees.
   The Fee Schedule for the administration of this Chapter is set forth in the
Johnston County Fee Schedule adopted by the Johnston County Board of
Commissions for the current fiscal year, and as may be amended from time to
time.
   Any additional costs or fees, beyond those listed in the Fee Schedule,
incurred by the Animal Services Department for the special handling of animals,
including but not limited to veterinary care and/or special dietary needs,
shall be billed to the Owner of an at-cost basis. The determination of whether
an animal requires special handling is evaluated of a case by case basis in the
discretion of the Animal Services Department Head.
(Amend. of 3-1-2010; Amend. of 6-6-2016; Amend. of 10-5-2020; Amend. of 5-1-
2023)
Chapter 5 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL
   Secs. 5-1—5-30. - Reserved.
Secs. 5-1—5-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PROPERTY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS FOR RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY
   Sec.
5-31. - Findings and authority.
   Sec.
5-32. - Purpose.
   Sec.
5-33. - Existing owner-occupied dwellings.
   Sec.
5-34. - Definitions.
   Secs. 5-35—5-60. - Reserved.
Sec. 5-31. - Findings and authority.
   Pursuant to G.S. 153A-365, it is hereby declared that there exist in the
planning jurisdiction of the county dwellings which are unfit for human
habitation due to dilapidation; defects increasing the hazards of fire,
accidents, and other calamities; lack of ventilation, light and sanitary
facilities; and other conditions rendering such dwellings unsafe or unsanitary,
dangerous, and detrimental to the health, safety and otherwise inimical to the
welfare of the residents of the county. This article shall be effective
throughout the county's planning jurisdiction.
(Ord. of 6-11-2001, § 1(1.1), (1.2))
Sec. 5-32. - Purpose.
   (a)   In order to protect the health, safety and general welfare of the
residents of the county as authorized by G.S. art. 18, ch. 152A, it is the
purpose of this article to establish minimum standards of habitation and
property maintenance.
   (b)   Nothing in this article shall be construed to affect bona fide farm
structures including permitted migrant labor housing facilities.
(Ord. of 6-11-2001, § 1(1.3), (1.4))
Sec. 5-33. - Existing owner-occupied dwellings.
   Any dwelling unit occupied by the owner of the property on June 11, 2001,
shall not be subject to these regulations, except elderly or disabled owner-
occupants who have been declared mentally incompetent to handle their business
affairs or who have voluntary given a power of attorney to someone to represent
them in such matters. For those dwelling units, the county would only inspect
and enforce this article if they were contacted to inspect for the safety and
protection of the elderly or disabled owner-occupant or to enable them to
receive financial assistance in rehabbing their home. When ownership of a
dwelling or property is transferred after June 11, 2001, that dwelling is then
subject to the provisions of this section.
(Ord. of 6-11-2001, § 1(1.5))
Sec. 5-34. - Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Basement means a portion of a dwelling which is located partly underground,
having direct access to light and air from windows or doors located above the
level of the adjoining ground.
   Cellar means a portion of a dwelling which is located partly or wholly
underground having an inadequate access to light and air from windows or doors
located partly or wholly below the level of adjoining ground.
   Deteriorated means when a dwelling is unfit for human habitation and can be
repaired, altered, or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this article at a cost not in excess of 50 percent of its tax
value.
   Dilapidated means when a dwelling is unfit for human habitation and cannot
be repaired, altered or improved to comply with all the minimum standards
established by this article except at a cost of 50 percent of its tax value.
   Dwelling means any building, structure or part thereof which is wholly or
partly used or intended to be used for living, sleeping or habitation by human
occupants, except those structures legally permitted for temporary or shortterm
use.
   For the purpose of this article, the term "dwelling" shall include any room
or group of rooms located within a structure forming a single habitable unit;
usually referred to as a dwelling unit.
   Extermination means the control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by removing or making inaccessible materials that may serve as their food
by poisoning, spraying, fumigating or trapping; or by any other recognized and
legal pest elimination methods approved by the inspector.
   Habitable room means a room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be
used for living, including, but not limited to cooking, or eating purposes,
excluding bathrooms, water closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms,
foyers, or communicating corridors, closets or storage spaces.
   Infestation means the presence within or around a dwelling of any insects,
rodents or other pests in such a manner as to constitute a menace to the
health, safety or general welfare of the occupants or the public.
   Inspector means the county building inspector or designated code official.
   Multiple dwelling means any dwelling containing more than two dwelling
units.
   Occupant means any person living or sleeping in a dwelling or dwelling unit.
   Operator means any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or
part thereof, in which dwelling units are let.
   Owner means any person or persons who is listed in the county tax records,
or who shall have title to any dwelling, or dwelling unit shall be presumed to
be the owner of a subject property.
   Unfit for human habitation means that conditions which exist in a dwelling
which violate or do not comply with one or more of the minimum standards for
fitness or one or more of the requirements established by this article.
(Ord. of 6-11-2001, § 2)
   Cross reference—Definitions generally, §
1-2.
Secs. 5-35—5-60. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MINIMUM STANDARDS
   Sec.
5-61. - Dwellings.
   Sec.
5-62. - Structural condition.
   Sec.
5-63. - Basic plumbing, heating and electrical equipment and facilities.
   Sec.
5-64. - Ventilation of dwelling.
   Sec.
5-65. - Safe and sanitary maintenance of dwelling.
   Sec.
5-66. - Control of insects, rodents and infestations of dwelling.
   Sec.
5-67. - Responsibilities of owners and occupants.
   Sec.
5-68. - Administration.
   Sec.
5-69. - Means of appeal.
Sec. 5-61. - Dwellings.
   (a)   Every dwelling used for human habitation, or held out for use as a
human habitation, shall comply with all of the minimum standards of fitness for
human habitation and all of the requirements of sections
5-62 through
5-67.
   (b)   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant, or let to another for
occupancy or use as a human habitation, any dwelling which does not comply with
all of the minimum standards of fitness for human habitation and all of the
requirements of sections
5-62 through
5-67.
(Ord. of 6-11-2001, § 3)
Sec. 5-62. - Structural condition.
   The following standards shall constitute the minimum standards for
structural condition of a dwelling:
   (1)   Walls or partitions or supporting members, stilts, joists, rafters, or
other structural members shall not list, lean or buckle, and shall not be
rotted, deteriorated or damaged, and shall not have holes or cracks which admit
rodents.
   (2)   Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and strength to
be reasonably safe for the purpose used.
   (3)   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation supports
shall not be deteriorated or damaged.
   (4)   Steps, stairs, landings, porches or other parts or appurtenances shall
be maintained in such condition that they will not fail or collapse.
   (5)   Adequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic shall be
provided.
   (6)   There shall be no chimneys or parts thereof which are so defective or
deteriorated as to present a danger by falling, or as a fire hazard or unsafe
to use.
   (7)   Interior walls and ceilings of all rooms, closets and hallways shall
be finished of suitable materials, which will, by use of reasonable household
methods promote sanitation and cleanliness, and shall be maintained in such a
manner so as to enable the occupants to maintain reasonable privacy between
spaces.
   (8)   The roof, flashings, exterior walls, basement walls, floors and all
doors and windows exposed to weather shall be constructed and maintained so as
to be weather and water tight.
(Ord. of 6-11-2001, § 4)
Sec. 5-63. - Basic plumbing, heating and electrical equipment and facilities.
   The following standards shall constitute the minimum standards for basic
plumbing, heating and electrical equipment of a dwelling:
   (1)   Plumbing system. 
      a.   Each dwelling shall be connected to a potable water supply and to an
approved sewage disposal system.
      b.   Each dwelling unit shall contain not less than a kitchen sink,
lavatory, tub or shower, water closet, and adequate supply of both cold and hot
water. All water shall be supplied through an approved pipe distribution system
connected to a potable water supply.
      c.   All plumbing fixtures shall meet the standards of the state plumbing
code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in good working
order.
      d.   All required plumbing shall be located within the dwelling unit and
be accessible to the occupants of the unit. The water closet and tub or shower
shall be located in a room or rooms affording privacy to the user.
   (2)   Heating system. Every dwelling shall have facilities for providing
heat in accordance with the following:
      a.   Central and electric heating systems. Every central or electric
heating system shall be of sufficient capacity to heat all habitable rooms per
state building code.
      b.   Other heating facilities. Where a central or electric heating system
is not provided, the dwelling shall be provided with sufficient fireplaces,
chimneys, flues, gas vents or other facilities to which heating appliances may
be connected to heat all habitable rooms per state building code.
   (3)   Electrical system. Every dwelling shall be wired for electrical lights
and at least two floor or wall type convenient receptacles. All fixtures,
receptacles, equipment and wiring shall be maintained in a state of good
repair, safe, capable of being used and installed in accordance with the state
electrical code.
(Ord. of 6-11-2001, § 5)
Sec. 5-64. - Ventilation of dwelling.
   The following standards shall constitute the minimum standards for
ventilation of a dwelling:
   (1)   General. Every habitable room shall have at least one window or
skylight facing directly to the outdoors.
   (2)   Habitable rooms. Every habitable room shall have at least one window,
skylight or door which can be easily opened, or such other device as will
adequately ventilate the room.
   (3)   Bathroom and/or water closet rooms. Every bathroom and water closet
compartment shall comply with the light and ventilation requirements of
subsections (1) and (2) of this section except that no window or skylight shall
be required in adequately ventilated bathrooms or water closet compartments
equipped with an approved ventilation system of 50 cfm's.
(Ord. of 6-11-2001, § 6)
Sec. 5-65. - Safe and sanitary maintenance of dwelling.
   The following standards shall constitute the minimum standards for safe and
sanitary maintenance of a dwelling:
   (1)   Exterior foundation, walls and roofs. Every foundation wall, exterior
wall and exterior roof shall be:
      a.   Substantially weathertight and rodentproof;
      b.   Kept in sound condition and good repair;
      c.   Capable of according privacy; and
      d.   Safe to use and capable of supporting the load which normal use
would cause to be placed thereon.
   (2)   Interior floors, walls and ceilings. Every floor, interior wall and
ceiling shall be:
      a.   Substantially rodentproof;
      b.   Kept in sound condition and good repair;
      c.   Safe to use and capable of supporting the load which normal use
would cause to be placed thereon; and
      d.   At least one-half of the floor area of every habitable room shall
have a ceiling height of not less than seven feet.
   (3)   Windows and doors. Every window, exterior door, basement or cellar
door and hatchway shall be substantially weathertight and rodentproof and be
kept in sound condition and good repair.
   (4)   Stairs, porches and appurtenances. Every outside stairs, porches and
appurtenances shall be kept in sound condition and good repair and be safe to
use and capable of supporting the load which normal use would cause to be
placed thereon.
   (5)   Bathroom floors. Every bathroom floor surface and water closet
compartment shall be constructed and maintained so that it will be reasonably
impervious to water and will permit such floor to be easily kept in a clean and
sanitary condition.
   (6)   Egress. Every dwelling shall be provided with adequate means of egress
as required by the state residential building code.
   (7)   Exterior grounds. All property shall be in compliance with the
provisions of the county solid waste ordinance.
(Ord. of 6-11-2001, § 7)
Sec. 5-66. - Control of insects, rodents and infestations of dwelling.
   The following standards shall constitute the minimum standards for control
of insects, rodents and infestations of a dwelling:
   (1)   Rodent control. Every basement, or cellar window used or intended to
be used for ventilation, and every other opening to a basement which might
provide an entry for rodents, shall be equipped with screens or other such
approved devices, kept in such a condition as to effectively prevent entrance
by rodents.
   (2)   Infestation. Every occupant of a dwelling, or an individual dwelling
unit, shall be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or
other pest in such dwelling or dwelling unit or on the premises.
   Whenever infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a
dwelling in a rodentproof or reasonable insectproof condition, extermination
shall be the ultimate responsibility of the owner.
(Ord. of 6-11-2001, § 8)
Sec. 5-67. - Responsibilities of owners and occupants.
   The following shall constitute the minimum standards of responsibility of
owners and occupants:
   (1)   Public or common areas. Every owner of a building containing two or
more dwelling units shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean and
sanitary condition the common or shared areas of the dwelling and premises
thereof.
   (2)   Cleanliness. Every occupant of a dwelling shall keep in a clean and
sanitary condition that part of the dwelling and premises thereof which they
occupy and control.
(Ord. of 6-11-2001, § 9)
Sec. 5-68. - Administration.
   (a)   Division of property maintenance. The division of property maintenance
inspection is hereby created and the executive official in charge thereof shall
be known as the code official.
   (b)   Duties and powers of the code official. 
   (1)   General. The code official shall enforce the provisions of this
article.
   (2)   Inspections. The code official shall make all of the required
inspections, or shall accept reports of inspection by approved agencies or
individuals.
   (3)   Right of entry. If a potential violation of this article is presented
to the code official, the code official is authorized to enter the structure or
premises at reasonable times to inspect subject to constitutional restrictions
on unreasonable searches and seizures. If entry is refused or not obtained, the
code official is authorized to pursue recourse as provided by law.
   (c)   Violations. It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to
be in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of this article.
   (1)   Notice of violation. The code official shall serve a written notice of
violation.
   (2)   Prosecution of violation. If the notice of violation is not complied
with, the code official shall institute the appropriate proceeding at law or in
equity to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or to require the removal
or termination of the unlawful occupancy of the structure in violation of the
provisions of this article or of the order or direction made pursuant thereof.
   (3)   Violation; penalties. Any person who shall violate a provision of this
article, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof
shall be prosecuted within the limits provided by state or local laws. Each day
that a violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (4)   Violation; recovery of inspection cost. Any person who shall violate a
provision of this article, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the
requirements thereof may be assessed the cost of the inspection, calculated by
the county up to and including the date of the violation.
(Ord. of 6-11-2001, § 10)
Sec. 5-69. - Means of appeal.
   (a)   Application for appeal. Any person directly affected by a decision of
the code official or a notice issued under this section shall have the right to
appeal to the board of appeals, provided that a written application for appeal
is filed within 20 days after the day the notice was served. An application for
appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this section or the
rules legally adopted under this section have been incorrectly interpreted, the
provisions of this section do not fully apply, or the requirements of this
section are adequately satisfied by other means.
   (b)   Appeals board. A property maintenance appeals board is hereby
established consisting of the county board of commissioners; until such time as
the board of county commissioners appoint a separate board to carry out the
appeals process. All hearings before the board shall be open to the public.
   (c)   Powers of the board. The board shall have the following powers and
duties:
   (1)   To hear testimony by the appellant, the appellant's representative,
the code official and any person whose interests are affected.
   (2)   To modify or reverse the decision of the code official only by a
concurring vote of a majority of the total number of appointed board members.
   (3)   To direct the code official to take immediate action in accordance
with the decision of the board.
   (d)   Appeal of decision. A decision of the property maintenance appeals
board may be appealed to the superior court by the nature of a writ of
certiorari and must be filed within 30 days of the filing of the decision in
the office of inspections or the delivery of the notice of decision of the
board.
(Ord. of 6-11-2001, § 11)
Chapter 6 - BUSINESSES [4] 
   (4) Cross reference—Emergency services,
ch. 10; office and institutional district (OI), §
14-78; general business district (GB), §
14-79; community business district (CB), §
14-80; industrial district-1 (I-1), §
14-81; industrial district-2 (I-2), §
14-82; telecommunications,
ch. 22; utilities,
ch. 24.
   (4) State Law reference—Authority to regulate trades and businesses, G.S.
153A-134.
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL
   Secs. 6-1—6-30. - Reserved.
Secs. 6-1—6-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - INSULATION CONTRACTORS
   Sec.
6-31. - Authority.
   Sec.
6-32. - Penalties.
   Sec.
6-33. - License required.
   Sec.
6-34. - Applications.
   Sec.
6-35. - Procedures for issuance.
   Sec.
6-36. - Termination and renewal of licenses.
   Sec.
6-37. - Suspension; revocation; appeal.
   Sec.
6-38. - Permit required; permit fees.
   Sec.
6-39. - Bond required.
   Sec.
6-40. - Change of location.
   Secs. 6-41—6-70. - Reserved.
Sec. 6-31. - Authority.
   This article is adopted pursuant to Chapter 703, North Carolina Session Laws
of 1977, and G. S. 153A-134.
(Ord. of 1-1-1978, § 1)
Sec. 6-32. - Penalties.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this article
shall be subject to all the applicable punishment, penalties, and equitable
relief provided for by Chapter 703, North Carolina Session Laws of 1977, and
G.S. 153A-123.
(Ord. of 1-1-1978, § 10)
Sec. 6-33. - License required.
   No person may for a consideration install, alter or restore, within any
unincorporated part of the county and within any city pursuant to the authority
granted in G.S. 153A-122, any insulation or other materials or energy
utilization equipment designed or intended to meet the state building code
requirements for insulation and energy utilization standards who is not:
   (1)   Licensed as a contractor to do the proposed work under G.S. ch. 87.
   (2)   Working under the supervision of a registered architect or
professional engineer;
   (3)   An owner working upon his own building; or
   (4)   Licensed under this article.
(Ord. of 1-1-1978, § 2)
Sec. 6-34. - Applications.
   Every person desiring a license under this article shall submit an
application for such license to the county insulation inspector conforming to
the following requirements:
   (1)   Form of application. Each application shall be a written statement
upon forms provided by the insulation inspector.
   (2)   Contents of application. Each application shall contain the following
information:
      a.   Name and home address of the applicant, if an individual; or home
office address, if a corporation or partnership.
      b.   Names and home addresses of the partners, if a partnership.
      c.   Names and home addresses of the officers and directors, if a
corporation.
      d.   Place where the proposed business is to be located.
      e.   Complete record of all convictions of felonies or acts involving
dishonesty, fraud, or deceit by the applicant or any employee, partner,
officer, or director of the applicant, whether in this or any other state or
jurisdiction.
      f.   Complete record of all licenses held by the applicant or any
employee, partner, officer, or director of the type regulated by this article
or other activities involving construction, alteration, or modification of
buildings and structures.
      g.   Information as to the circumstances in which any local, state, or
federal government or agency has refused, suspended, or revoked a license of
the type described in subsection (2)f of this section to the applicant or any
employee, partner, officer, or director of the applicant.
   (3)   License fees. Each application shall be accompanied by a license fee
in an amount set from time to time by the board of commissioners and contained
in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the county clerk's office.
   (4)   False statements. False statements on any application for a license
shall be grounds for immediate revocation or denial of such license.
(Ord. of 1-1-1978, § 3)
Sec. 6-35. - Procedures for issuance.
   (a)   Review by county officers. Each application for a license under this
article received by the insulation inspector shall be promptly forwarded to the
sheriff's department for review. The sheriff's department shall promptly make
any comments and recommendations pertaining to the application and forward them
to the insulation inspector.
   (b)   Licensing agency. The application and any comments and recommendations
relating thereto shall be considered by the board of county commissioners which
shall then issue or deny the license pursuant to the standards in subsection
(c) of this section.
   (c)   Standards. The board of county commissioners shall issue the license
unless it shall find that the applicant or any employee, partner, officer, or
director of the applicant:
   (1)   Has been convicted within the last three years of a felony or an act
involving dishonesty, fraud, or deceit, whether in this or any other state or
jurisdiction.
   (2)   Has been refused a license to do the type of work authorized in this
article or has had such a license suspended or revoked by any local, state or
federal government or agency and such government or agency has not subsequently
granted or restored such license.
   (3)   Has knowingly made a false statement in the application.
   (4)   Has failed to post the bond or other security required by section
6-39.
   (d)   Appeal from denial. Any applicant whose license is denied may appeal
the denial to the board of commissioners. After reasonable notice to the
applicant, the board shall afford the applicant an opportunity to show why its
license should not be denied.
(Ord. of 1-1-1978, § 4)
Sec. 6-36. - Termination and renewal of licenses.
   All licenses issued under this article shall terminate on the last day of
the calendar year for which issued. Renewal of such licenses shall be pursuant
to the same procedures and requirements set forth for initial issuance.
(Ord. of 1-1-1978, § 5)
Sec. 6-37. - Suspension; revocation; appeal.
   (a)   The board of county commissioners may suspend or revoke any license
issued under this article at any time upon a showing that the applicant or any
employee, partner, officer, or director of the applicant has:
   (1)   Knowingly made a false statement in the application for a license;
   (2)   Violated the state building code requirements as to insulation or
energy utilization equipment or materials, whether in this or any other
jurisdiction; or
   (3)   Been convicted of an act involving dishonesty, fraud, or deceit with
respect to any contract entered into for work requiring this license.
   (b)   Any licensee whose license is suspended or revoked may appeal the
suspension or revocation to the board of commissioners. After reasonable notice
to the licensee, the board shall afford the licensee an opportunity to show why
its license should not be suspended or revoked.
(Ord. of 1-1-1978, § 6)
Sec. 6-38. - Permit required; permit fees.
   No person may for a consideration install, alter or restore any insulation
or other materials or energy utilization equipment designed or intended to meet
the state building code requirements for insulation and energy utilization
without first securing a permit from the insulation inspector for each item of
work. There shall be a permit fee, in an amount set from time to time by the
board of commissioners and contained in the schedule of fees and charges on
file in the county clerk's office, for each permit issued.
(Ord. of 1-1-1978, § 8)
Sec. 6-39. - Bond required.
   (a)   Before a license under this article shall be issued to any applicant,
the applicant shall post a bond with the county in an amount set from time to
time by the board of commissioners and contained in the schedule of fees and
charges on file in the county clerk's office. In lieu of posting a bond, the
applicant may deposit a cashier's check or cash in the same amount.
   (b)   The security required by subsection (a) of this section shall be
available to indemnify any person for any damage which accrues by reason of the
applicant's failure to properly provide or install insulation, energy
utilization equipment or other materials designed or intended to meet the state
building code standards for insulation and energy utilization.
(Ord. of 1-1-1978, § 9)
Sec. 6-40. - Change of location.
   The location of any business licensed under this article may be changed,
provided ten days' notice thereof is given to the board of commissioners and
operation at such new location does not violate any applicable state or local
law, ordinance, or regulation.
(Ord. of 1-1-1978, § 7)
Secs. 6-41—6-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - ADULT BUSINESSES [5] 
   (5) State Law reference—Massage therapy, G.S. 90-620 et seq.
   Sec.
6-71. - Massage of private parts for hire prohibited.
   Sec.
6-72. - Authority and jurisdiction.
   Sec.
6-73. - Purpose.
   Sec.
6-74. - Abrogation.
   Sec.
6-75. - Definitions.
   Sec.
6-76. - Scope and provisions of article.
Sec. 6-71. - Massage of private parts for hire prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to massage or offer to massage the
private parts of another for hire in the county. The term "massage" is defined
as meaning the manipulation of body muscle or tissue by rubbing, stroking,
kneading, or tapping, by hand or mechanical device. The term "private parts" is
defined as meaning the penis, scrotum, mons, veneris, vulva or vaginal area.
The provisions of this article shall not apply to licensed medical
practitioners, osteopaths, or chiropractors, or persons operating at their
direction, in connection with the practice of medicine, chiropractic, or
osteopathy.
(Ord. of 10-21-1975(1), § 1)
Sec. 6-72. - Authority and jurisdiction.
   The provisions of this article are adopted by the board of commissioners
under authority granted by the general assembly of the state. From and after
the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived, this
article shall apply to every building, lot, tract, or parcel of land within the
county exclusive of the jurisdiction of any incorporated municipality.
(Ord. of 6-5-1995, art. I)
Sec. 6-73. - Purpose.
   For the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals and general welfare
of the citizenry of the county, this article is adopted by the board of
commissioners to regulate adult and sexually oriented businesses located in the
county. Further, the regulations of this article have been made with reasonable
consideration among other things, as to the character of the county and its
areas and their peculiar suitability for these businesses.
(Ord. of 6-5-1995, art. II)
Sec. 6-74. - Abrogation.
   The regulations of this article shall not repeal, impair, abrogate, or
interfere with any existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions, setback
requirements, rules, definitions, or regulations previously adopted pursuant to
law in any established zoning district in the county. However, where these
regulations impose greater restrictions, the provisions of these regulations
shall govern.
(Ord. of 6-5-1995, art. III)
Sec. 6-75. - Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Adult arcade means an establishment where, for any form of consideration,
one or more motion picture projectors, slide projectors, or similar machines
for viewing by five or fewer persons each are used to show films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions that are
characterized by all emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   Adult bookstore means an establishment that has as a substantial portion,
over 25 percent of total retail space, of its stock-in-trade and offers for
rent or sale, for any consideration, any one or more of the following:
   (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter; or
photographs, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other visual
representations that are characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
   (2)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for use in
connection with specified sexual activities.
   Adult business means any business activity, club or other establishment
which permits its employees, members, patrons or guests on its premises to
exhibit any specified anatomical areas before any other person or persons.
   Adult motion picture theater means an establishment where, for any form of
consideration, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar
photographic reproductions are shown, and in which a substantial portion, 25
percent, of the total presentation time is devoted to the showing of material
characterized by all emphasis on the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   Adult theater means a theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar
establishment characterized by activities featuring the exposure of specified
anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
   Massage means any manipulation of body muscle or tissue by rubbing,
stroking, kneading, or tapping by hand or mechanical device.
   Massage business means any establishment or business wherein massage is
practiced, including establishments commonly known as health clubs, physical
culture studios, massage studios, or massage parlors.
   Sexually oriented business means any business activity, club or other
establishment, within which the exhibition, showing, rental, or sale of
materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on material depicting,
describing, or exhibiting specified anatomical areas or relating to specified
sexual activities is permitted. Sexually oriented businesses shall include, but
are not limited to; adult arcades, adult bookstores, adult motion picture
theaters, adult theaters, and massage parlors.
   Specified anatomical areas means less than completely and opaquely covered
human genitals, pubic regions, buttocks and female breasts below a point
immediately above the top of the areola.
   Specified sexual activities means:
   (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
   (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, sodomy; or
   (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic regions,
buttocks or female breasts.
   Total retail space means any space within a structure that is used for the
direct sale of merchandise to the public and storage areas for those items.
(Ord. of 6-5-1995, art. IV)
   Cross reference—Definitions generally, §
1-2.
Sec. 6-76. - Scope and provisions of article.
   (a)   Adult businesses. No adult business shall be permitted in any building
located within 1,000 feet in any direction from:
   (1)   A building used as a dwelling.
   (2)   A building in which an adult business or a sexually oriented business
is located.
   (3)   A building used as a church, synagogue, or other house of worship.
   (4)   A building used as a public school or as a state-licensed day care
center.
   (5)   Any lot or parcel on which a public playground, public swimming pool,
or public park is located.
   (b)   Sexually oriented businesses. No sexually oriented business shall be
permitted in any building located within 1,000 feet in any direction from:
   (1)   A building used as a dwelling.
   (2)   A building in which an adult business or a sexually oriented business
is located.
   (3)   A building used as a church, synagogue, or other house of worship.
   (4)   A building used as a public school or as a state-licensed day care
center.
   (5)   Any lot or parcel on which a public playground, public swimming pool,
or public park is located.
   (c)   Nonconforming adult businesses and sexually oriented adult businesses.
Any adult business or sexually oriented business lawfully operating on the
effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived, that is in
violation of this article shall be deemed a nonconforming use. Any use which is
determined to be nonconforming by application of the provisions of this section
shall be permitted to continue for a period not to exceed two years. Such
nonconforming uses shall not be increased, enlarged, extended, or altered.
(Ord. of 6-5-1995, art. V)
   State law reference—Adult entertainment, G.S. 14-202.10 et seq.
Chapter 7 - RESERVED
Chapter 8 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES [6] 
   (6) Cross reference—Administration,
ch. 2.
   (6) State Law reference—Power to deal with states of emergency, G.S. 14-
288.13; North Carolina Emergency Management Act, G.S. 166A-1 et seq.
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL
   Sec.
8-1. - Short title.
   Sec.
8-2. - Intent and purpose.
   Sec.
8-3. - Definitions.
   Sec.
8-4. - Violations.
   Sec.
8-5. - Organization and appointments.
   Sec.
8-6. - Duties and responsibilities of the coordinator.
   Sec.
8-7. - Emergency management plans.
   Sec.
8-8. - Immunity and exemption.
   Sec.
8-9. - No private liability.
   Sec.
8-10. - Conflicting ordinances, orders, rules and regulations.
   Secs. 8-11—8-40. - Reserved.
Sec. 8-1. - Short title.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the
"Emergency Management Ordinance for the County of Johnston."
(Ord. of 9-6-1988(1), § 1)
Sec. 8-2. - Intent and purpose.
   (a)   It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to establish an office
that will ensure the complete and efficient utilization of all of the county's
resources to combat disaster resulting from enemy actions or other disasters as
defined in this chapter.
   (b)   The county office of emergency management will be the coordinating
agency for all activity in connection with emergency management. It will be the
instrument through which the board of commissioners may exercise the authority
and discharge the responsibilities vested in them during disaster emergencies.
   (c)   This chapter will not relieve any city or county department of the
moral responsibilities or authority given to it in the city or county charter
or by local ordinances, nor will it adversely affect the work of any volunteer
agency organized for relief in disaster emergencies.
(Ord. of 9-6-1988(1), § 2)
Sec. 8-3. - Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Attack means direct or indirect assault against the county, its government,
its environs, or of the nation, by the forces of a hostile nation or the agents
thereof, including assault by bombing, conventional or nuclear, chemical or
biological warfare, terrorism or sabotage.
   Coordinator means the coordinator of the county emergency management agency,
appointed as prescribed in this chapter.
   Disaster includes, but is not limited to, actual or threatened enemy attack,
sabotage, extraordinary fire, flood, storm, epidemic, accident, chemical spill
or other impending or actual calamity endangering or threatening to endanger
health, life or property of constituted government.
   Emergency management means the basic governmental functions of maintaining
the public peace, health and safety during an emergency. This term shall
include plans and preparations for protection and relief, recovery and
rehabilitation from effects of an attack by the forces of an enemy nation or
the agents thereof, or a disaster as defined in this section. It shall not,
however, include any activity that is the primary responsibility of the
military forces of the United States.
   Emergency management forces means the employees, equipment and facilities of
all city and county departments, boards, councils, institutions and
commissions; and in addition, it shall include all volunteer personnel,
equipment and facilities contributed by, or obtained from, volunteer persons or
agencies.
   Emergency management volunteer means any person duly registered, identified
and appointed by the coordinator of the county emergency management agency and
assigned to participate in the emergency management activity.
   Regulations includes plans, programs and other emergency procedures deemed
essential to emergency management.
   Volunteer means contributing a service, equipment or facilities to the
emergency management agency without remuneration.
(Ord. of 9-6-1988(1), § 3)
   Cross reference—Definitions generally, §
1-2.
Sec. 8-4. - Violations.
   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to violate any of the provisions of
this chapter or plans issued pursuant to the authority contained in this
chapter, or to willfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the emergency
management organization in the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter or
any plan issued under this chapter.
(Ord. of 9-6-1988(1), § 8)
Sec. 8-5. - Organization and appointments.
   (a)   Organization under this chapter shall consist of the following:
   (1)   An agency of emergency management within the executive department of
the county government under the direction of the board of commissioners. The
agency head of the county emergency management agency shall be known as the
coordinator, and such assistants and other employees as are deemed necessary
for the proper functioning of the agency will be appointed.
   (2)   The employees and resources of all county departments, boards,
institutions, and councils shall participate in the emergency management
activities. Duties assigned to city or county departments shall be the same as
or similar to the normal duties of the department, where possible.
   (3)   Volunteer personnel and agencies offering service to, and accepted by
the county.
   (b)   The board of commissioners shall appoint a coordinator of the county
emergency management agency who shall be a person well versed and trained in
planning operations involving the activities of many different agencies which
will operate to protect the public health, safety and welfare in the event of
danger from enemy action or disaster.
   (c)   The coordinator shall designate and appoint deputy coordinators to
assume the emergency duties of the coordinator in the event of his absence or
inability to act.
(Ord. of 9-6-1988(1), § 4)
Sec. 8-6. - Duties and responsibilities of the coordinator.
   The coordinator shall be responsible to the board of commissioners in regard
to all phases of emergency management activity. The coordinator shall be
responsible for the planning, coordination and operation of the emergency
management activities in the county. The coordinator shall maintain liaison
with the state and federal authorities and the authorities of nearby political
subdivisions so as to ensure the most effective operation of the emergency
management plans. The coordinator's duties shall include, but not be limited
to, the following:
   (1)   Coordinating the recruitment of volunteer personnel and agencies to
augment the personnel and facilities of the county for emergency management
purposes.
   (2)   Development and coordination of plans for the immediate use of all
facilities, equipment, manpower and other resources of the county for the
purpose of minimizing or preventing damage to persons and property; and
protecting and restoring to usefulness governmental services and public
utilities necessary for the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (3)   Negotiating and concluding agreements with owners or persons in
control of buildings or other property for the use of such buildings or other
property for emergency management purposes and designating suitable buildings
as public shelters.
   (4)   Through public informational programs, educating the populace as to
actions necessary and required for the protection of their persons and property
in case of enemy attack or disaster, either impending or present.
   (5)   Conducting public practice alerts to ensure the efficient operation of
the emergency management forces and to familiarize residents with emergency
management regulations, procedures and operations.
   (6)   Coordinating the activity of all other public and private agencies
engaged in any emergency management activities.
(Ord. of 9-6-1988(1), § 5)
Sec. 8-7. - Emergency management plans.
   (a)   Comprehensive emergency management plans shall be adopted and
maintained by resolution of the board of commissioners. In the preparation of
these plans as they pertain to city and county organization, it is intended
that the services, equipment and facilities and personnel of all existing
departments and agencies shall be utilized to the fullest extent. When
approved, it shall be the duty of all departments and agencies to perform the
functions assigned by these plans and to maintain their portions of the plans
in a current state of readiness at all times. These plans shall have the effect
of law whenever a disaster has been proclaimed.
   (b)   The coordinator shall prescribe in the emergency plans those positions
within the disaster organization, in addition to his own, for which lines of
succession are necessary. In each instance, the responsible person will
designate and keep on file with the coordinator a current list of three persons
as successors to his position. The list will be in order of succession and
will, as nearly as possible, designate persons best capable of carrying out all
assigned duties and functions.
   (c)   Each service chief and department head assigned responsibility in the
plans shall be responsible for carrying out all duties and functions assigned
in the plans. Duties will include the organization and training of assigned
employees and, where needed, volunteers. Each chief shall formulate the
standing operating procedure to implement the plans for his service.
   (d)   Amendments to the plans adopted by this section shall be submitted to
the coordinator. If approved, the coordinator will then submit the amendments
to the board of commissioners with his recommendation for their approval. Such
amendments shall take effect 30 days from the date of approval.
   (e)   When a required competency or skill for a disaster function is not
available within county government, the coordinator is authorized to seek
assistance from persons outside of government. The assignment of duties, when
of a supervisory nature, shall also include the granting of authority for the
persons so assigned to carry out such duties prior to, during, and after the
occurrence of a disaster. Such services from persons outside of government may
be accepted by county government on a volunteer basis. Such citizens shall be
enrolled as emergency management volunteers.
(Ord. of 9-6-1988(1), § 6)
Sec. 8-8. - Immunity and exemption.
   (a)   All functions under this chapter and all other activities relating to
emergency management are declared to be governmental functions. Neither the
county, nor, except in cases of willful misconduct, gross negligence or bad
faith, any emergency management worker complying with or reasonably attempting
to comply with this chapter or any order, rule or regulation promulgated
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter or pursuant to any ordinance
relating to any emergency management measures enacted by any political
subdivision of the state, shall be liable for the death of or injury to
persons, or for damage to property as a result of any such activity.
   (b)   Neither the rights of any person to receive benefits to which he would
otherwise be entitled to under this chapter or under the workers' compensation
law or under any pension law, nor the right of any such person to receive any
benefits or compensation under any act of congress shall be affected by
performance of emergency management functions.
   (c)   Any requirement for a license to practice any professional, mechanical
or other skill shall not apply to any authorized emergency management worker
who shall, in the course of performing his duties as such, practice such
professional, mechanical or other skill during a state of disaster.
   (d)   As used in this section, the term "emergency management worker" shall
include any full- or part-time paid, volunteer or auxiliary employee of this
state or other states, territories, possessions or the District of Columbia, of
the federal government or any neighboring country or of any political
subdivision thereof or of any agency or organization performing emergency
management services at any place in this state, subject to the order or control
of or pursuant to a request of the state government or any political
subdivision thereof.
   (e)   Any emergency management worker, as defined in this section,
performing emergency management services at any place in this state pursuant to
agreements, compacts or arrangements for mutual aid and assistance to which the
state or a political subdivision of the state is a party, shall possess the
same powers, duties, immunities and privileges he would ordinarily possess if
performing his duties in the state, or political subdivision of the state in
which normally employed or rendering services.
   State law reference—Similar provisions, G.S. 166A-14.
Sec. 8-9. - No private liability.
   Any person owning or controlling real or personal property who, voluntarily
or involuntarily, knowingly or unknowingly, with or without compensation,
grants a license or privilege or otherwise permits or allows the designation or
use of the whole or any part or parts of such real or personal property for the
purpose of sheltering, protecting, safeguarding or aiding in any way persons
shall, together with his successors in interest, if any, not be civilly liable
for the death of or injury to any person or the loss of or damage to the
property of any persons where such death, injury, loss or damage resulted from,
through or because of the use of the real or personal property for any of the
above purposes.
   State law reference—Similar provisions, G.S. 166A-15.
Sec. 8-10. - Conflicting ordinances, orders, rules and regulations.
   At all times when the orders, rules and regulations made and promulgated
pursuant to this chapter shall be in effect, they shall supersede all existing
ordinances, orders, rules and regulations insofar as the latter may be
inconsistent with this chapter.
(Ord. of 9-6-1988(1), § 10)
Secs. 8-11—8-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
   Sec.
8-41. - State of emergency; restrictions authorized.
   Sec.
8-42. - Penalty for violation.
   Sec.
8-43. - Proclamation imposing prohibitions and restrictions.
   Sec.
8-44. - Removal of prohibitions and restrictions.
   Sec.
8-45. - Superseding and amendatory proclamations.
   Sec.
8-46. - Termination of proclamation.
   Sec.
8-47. - Vice-chairperson.
   Sec.
8-48. - Territorial applicability.
Sec. 8-41. - State of emergency; restrictions authorized.
   (a)   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever during times of
public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe, or similar public emergency, for
any reason, public safety authorities are unable to maintain public order or
afford adequate protection for lives, safety or property, or whenever the
occurrence of any such condition is imminent.
   (b)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health and welfare of the people within the
county or any part of the county, or threatening damages to or destruction of
property, the chairperson of the board of commissioners is authorized and
empowered under G.S. 14-288.13 and 166A-8 to issue a public proclamation
declaring to all persons the existence of such a state of emergency, and, in
order to more effectively protect the lives and property of people within the
county, to place in effect any or all of the restrictions authorized in this
article.
   (c)   The chairperson of the board of commissioners is authorized and
empowered to limit by the proclamation the application of all or any part of
such restrictions to any area specifically designated or described within the
county and to specific hours of the day or night; and to exempt from all or any
part of such restrictions, while acting in the line of and within the scope of
their respective duties, law enforcement officers, firefighters and other
public employees, rescue squad members, doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals
and other medical facilities; on-duty military personnel, whether state or
federal; on-duty employees of public utilities, public transportation
companies, and newspaper, magazine, radio broadcasting, and television
broadcasting corporations operated for profit; and such other classes of
persons as may be essential to the preservation of public order and immediately
necessary to serve the safety, health, and welfare needs of people within the
county.
(Ord. of 9-6-1988(2), § 1)
Sec. 8-42. - Penalty for violation.
   As provided in section
8-43, any person violating any prohibition or restriction imposed by a
proclamation authorized by this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable upon conviction as provided by G.S. 14-288.20A.
(Ord. of 9-6-1988(2), § 13; Amend. of 12-6-2021)
Sec. 8-43. - Proclamation imposing prohibitions and restrictions.
   (a)   The chairperson of the board of commissioners may, by proclamation,
impose the prohibitions and restrictions specified in this section in the
manner described in this section. The chairperson may impose as many of those
specified prohibitions and restrictions as he finds are necessary, because of
an emergency, to maintain an acceptable level of public order and services, and
to protect lives, safety, and property. The chairperson shall recite his
findings in the proclamation.
   (b)   The proclamation shall be in writing. The chairperson shall take
reasonable steps to give notice of the terms of the proclamation to those
affected by it and shall post a copy of it in the county courthouse. The
chairperson shall send reports of the substance of the proclamation to the mass
communications media which serves the affected area. The chairperson shall
retain a text of the proclamation and furnish upon request certified copies of
it.
   (c)   The chairperson may direct and compel the evacuation of all or part of
the population of the county, to prescribe routes, modes of transportation, and
destination in connection with evacuation; and to control ingress and egress of
a disaster area, the movement of persons within the area, and the occupancy of
premises in the area. Details of the evacuation may be set forth or amended in
a subsequent proclamation which shall be well publicized.
   (d)   The proclamation may impose a curfew prohibiting certain areas and
during certain periods the appearance in public of anyone who is not a member
of an exempted class. The proclamation shall specify the geographical area or
areas and the period during each 24-hour day to which the curfew applies. The
chairperson may exempt from some or all of the curfew restrictions classes of
people whose exemption the chairperson finds necessary for the preservation of
the public health, safety, and welfare. The proclamation shall state the
exempted classes and the restrictions from which each is exempted. Unless
otherwise specified in the proclamation, the curfew shall apply during the
specified period each day until the chairperson by proclamation removes the
curfew.
   (e)   The proclamation may prohibit the possession or consumption of any
alcoholic beverage including beer, wine, and spirituous liquor other than on
one's own premises, and may prohibit the transfer, transportation, sale or
purchases of any alcoholic beverage within the area of the county described in
the proclamation. The prohibition, if imposed, may apply to transfers of
alcoholic beverages by employees of alcoholic beverage control stores as well
as by anyone else within the geographical area described.
   (f)   The proclamation may prohibit the possession, transportation, sale,
purchase, storage, and use of gasoline, and dangerous weapons and substances,
except that this subdivision does not authorize prohibitions or restrictions on
lawfully possessed firearms or ammunition. The chairperson may exempt from some
or all of the restrictions classes of people whose possession, transfer, or
transportation of certain dangerous weapons or substances is necessary to the
preservation of the public's health, safety, or welfare. The proclamation shall
state the exempted classes and the restrictions from which each is exempted. As
used in this section, the term "dangerous weapon or substance" means:
   (1)   Any deadly weapon, ammunition, explosive, incendiary device,
radioactive material or device as defined in G.S. 14-288.8(c)(5), gasoline, or
other instrument or substance designed for a use that carries a threat of
serious bodily injury or destruction of property.
   (2)   Any other instrument or substance that is capable of being used to
inflict serious bodily injury or destruction of property, when the
circumstances indicate that there is some probability that such instrument or
substance will be so used.
   (3)   Any part or ingredient in any instrument or substance included above
when the circumstances indicate a probability that such a part or ingredient
will be so used.
   If imposed, the restrictions of this subsection shall apply throughout the
jurisdiction of the county or such part of the county as designated in the
proclamation.
   (g)   The proclamation may prohibit obtaining access or attempting to obtain
access to any area, designated in the manner described in this section, in
violation of any order, clearly posted notice, or barricade indicating that
access is denied or restricted. Areas to which access is denied or restricted
shall be designated by the sheriff and his subordinates or other law
enforcement officer when directed in the proclamation to do so by the
chairperson. When acting under this authority, the sheriff and his subordinates
may restrict or deny access to any area, street, highway or location within the
county if that restriction or denial of access or use is reasonably necessary
to promote efforts being made to overcome the emergency or to prevent further
aggravation of the emergency.
   (h)   The proclamation may prohibit or restrict:
   (1)   Movements of people in public places;
   (2)   The operation of offices, business establishments, and other places to
or from which people may travel or at which they may congregate; and
   (3)   Other activities or conditions the control of which may be reasonably
necessary to maintain order and protect lives or property during the state of
emergency, within the area designated in the proclamation.
   (i)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor as provided
in G.S. 14-288.20A.
(Ord. of 9-6-1988(2), §§ 2—8; Amend. of 12-2-2019; Amend. of 12-6-2021)
Sec. 8-44. - Removal of prohibitions and restrictions.
   The chairperson of the board of commissioners shall by proclamation
terminate the entire declaration of emergency or remove any of the prohibitions
and restrictions when the emergency no longer requires them, or when directed
to do so by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 9-6-1988(2), § 9)
Sec. 8-45. - Superseding and amendatory proclamations.
   The chairperson of the board of commissioners in his discretion may invoke
the restrictions authorized by this article in separate proclamations, and may
amend any proclamation by means of a superseding proclamation in accordance
with the procedures set forth in section
8-43.
(Ord. of 9-6-1988(2), § 10)
Sec. 8-46. - Termination of proclamation.
   Any proclamation issued under this article shall expire five days after its
last imposition unless sooner terminated in writing under the same procedures
set forth in section
8-43 for proclamations.
(Ord. of 9-6-1988(2), § 11)
Sec. 8-47. - Vice-chairperson.
   In case of the absence or disability of the chairperson of the board of
commissioners, the vice-chairperson of the board of commissioners, or such
other person as may be designated by the board of commissioners, shall exercise
all of the powers given in this article to the chairperson.
(Ord. of 9-6-1988(2), § 12)
Sec. 8-48. - Territorial applicability.
   This article shall not apply within the corporate limits of any
municipality, or within any area of the county over which the municipality has
jurisdiction to enact general police-power ordinances, unless the municipality
by resolution consents to its application or the mayor of the municipality has
requested its application, in which event it shall apply to such areas as fully
and to the same extent as elsewhere in the county.
(Ord. of 9-6-1988(2), § 15)
Chapter 9 - RESERVED
Chapter 10
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES* 
 
   Sec.
10-1. - Definitions.
   Sec.
10-2. - Franchise required.
   Sec.
10-3. - Application for ambulance franchise.
   Sec.
10-4. - Granting of franchise.
   Sec.
10-5. - Term of franchise.
   Sec.
10-6. - Standards for drivers and attendants.
   Sec.
10-7. - Standards for vehicles and equipment.
   Sec.
10-8. - Standards for communications.
   Sec.
10-9. - Insurance.
   Sec.
10-10. - Records.
   Sec.
10-11. - Rates and charges.
   Sec.
10-12. - Enforcement.
 
   *Editor's note—Amend. of 6-2-2008(2) amended the title of
ch. 10 to read as herein set out. The former title was Emergency Services.
   In accordance with G.S. 153A-250, the following providers are franchised at
their current level of service in the EMS System.
North State Medical Transport - ALS
MedEx Medical Transport - ALS
Vector AeroMedical - ALS
First Responder Fire Departments:
50-210 Fire Department
Antioch Fire Department
Benson Fire Department
Blackmon's Crossroads Fire Department
Clayton Fire Department
Cleveland Fire Department
Corinth Holder Fire Department
Elevation Fire Department
West Johnston Fire Department
Wilson's Mills Fire Department
Bethany Fire Department
Meadow Fire Department
Micro Fire Department
North Side Fire Department
Pine Level Fire Department
Princeton Fire Department
Smithfield Fire Department
Kenly Fire Department
Selma Fire Department
Four Oaks Fire Department
(Amend. of 4-7-2014; Amend. of 10-6-2016; Amend. of 2-6-2017; Amend. of 8-3-
2020; Amend of 10-2-2023)
   Cross reference— Businesses,
ch. 6.
   State law reference— Ambulance services, G.S. 153A-250.
Sec. 10-1. - Definitions.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the mean-ings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Advanced life support non transporting unit means a vehicle identified as an
advanced life support non transporting unit. It shall carry equipment and
supplies in accordance with the level of advanced life support care offered by
the provider with which the vehicle is affiliated. These vehicles shall comply
with requirements as set forth by the office of emergency medical services and
other applicable General Statutes of the state.
   Ambulance means any privately or publicly owned motor vehicle, aircraft, or
vessel that is specially designed, constructed, or modified and equipped and is
intended to be used for and is maintained or operated for the transportation on
the streets or highways, waterways or airways of this state of persons who are
sick, injured, wounded, or otherwise incapacitated or helpless.
   Ambulance provider means an individual, firm, corporation or association who
engages or professes to engage in the business or service of transporting
patients in an ambulance.
   Approved means approved by the state medical care commission pursuant to the
latter's rules and regulations promulgated under G.S. 143B-165.
   Department means the Johnston County Emergency Services Department.
   Emergency and emergency transportation service means the use of an
ambulance, its equipment and personnel to provide medical care and
transportation of a patient who is in need of immediate medical treatment in
order to prevent loss of life or further aggravation or physiological or
psychological illness or injury.
   Emergency medical dispatch means the approved program with procedures
established for the management and delivery of emergency medical assistance by
a public or private agency that sends emergency medical assistance to
requesting persons and provides prearrival instructions for a victim of sudden
injury or illness.
   Emergency medical responder means an individual who has completed a training
program in emergency medical care and first aid approved by the state
department of health and human services and has been certified as a medical
responder by the department of health and human services, office of emergency
medical services.
   Emergency medical technician (EMT) means an individual who has completed a
training program in emergency medical care at least equal to the national
standard training program for emergency medical technicians as defined by the
United States Department of Transportation and has been certified as an
emergency medical technician by the state office of emergency medical service.
   Franchise means a permit issued by the county to a person for the operation
of an ambulance service.
   Franchisee means any person having been issued a franchise by the county for
the operation of an ambulance service.
   License means any driver's license or permit to operate a motor vehicle
issued under or granted by the laws of the state.
   Nonemergency transportation services means the operation of an ambulance for
any purpose other than transporting emergency patients.
   Operator means a person in actual physical control of an ambulance which is
in motion or which has the engine running.
    Owner means any person or entity who owns an ambulance.
   Patient means an individual who is sick, injured, wounded, or otherwise
incapacitated or helpless such that the need for some medical assistance might
be anticipated while being transported to or from a medical facility.
   Rescue means situations where the victim cannot escape an area through the
normal exit or under his own power.
   Responder means an organization with personnel trained in emergency medical
care that is dispatched to the scene of a medical emergency for the primary
purpose of providing emergency medical assistance to a patient until the
ambulance and additional medical aid arrives.
   Secondary ambulance provider means the system of personnel and equipment
meeting the same criteria as a primary ambulance provider, but not normally
dispatched on first call response.
   Telecommunicator means a person who is available at all times to receive
requests for emergency services, to dispatch emergency services, and to advise
local law enforcement agencies, fire departments and emergency medical
facilities of any existing or threatened emergency.
(Ord. of 4-6-1998, § I; Amend. of 6-2-2008(2); Amend. of 4-7-2014; Amend. of 8-
3-2020; Amend. of 10-2-2023)
   Cross reference—  Definitions generally, §
1-2.
Sec. 10-2. - Franchise required.
   (a)   No person, either as owner, agent or otherwise, shall furnish,
operate, conduct, maintain, advertise, or otherwise be engaged in or profess to
be engaged in the business or service of emergency and/or nonemergency
transportation of patients within the county unless the person holds a valid
permit for each ambulance used in such business or service issued by the state
department of health and human services, office of emergency medical services,
and has been granted a franchise for the operation of such business or service
by the county pursuant to this chapter.
    (b)   No person shall drive an ambulance, attend a patient in one, or
permit one to be operated when transporting a patient within the county unless
he holds a currently valid certificate as an emergency medical responder, EMT-
advanced EMT, or paramedic issued by the state department of health and human
services, office of emergency medical services. In an emergency situation, a
member of local fire department can operate an EMS vehicle as long as the
member has completed the North Carolina Emergency Vehicle Driving course.
   (c)   No franchise shall be required for:
   (1)   Any entity operated from a location or headquarters outside of the
county in order to transport patients who are picked up beyond the limits of
the county, to facilities located within
      the county, or to pick up patients within the county for transporting to
locations outside the county; but no such entity shall be used to pick up
patients within the county for transporting to locations within the county or
other locations unless it is rendering assistance to a franchised ambulance
service in the case of a major catastrophe, mutual aid or emergency with which
the services franchised by the county are insufficient or unable to cope as
referred to in this subsection (c)(1); or
   (2)   An ambulance owned and operated by the state, county or an agency of
the United States government.
   (3)   Any fire department contracted with Johnston County providing service
as a first responder.
(Ord. of 4-6-1998, § II; Amend. of 6-2-2008(2); Amend. of 6-4-2012; Amend. of
4-7-2014; Amend of 8-3-2020; Amend. of 10-2-2023)
Sec. 10-3. - Application for ambulance franchise.
   Application for a franchise to operate ambulances in the county shall be
made by the ambulance provider upon such forms as may be prepared or prescribed
by the county and shall contain:
   (1)   The name and address of the ambulance provider and of the owner of the
ambulance.
   (2)   The trade or other fictitious names, if any, under which the applicant
does business, along with a certified copy of an assumed name certificate
stating such name or articles of incorporation stating such name.
   (3)   A resume of the training and experience of the applicant in the
transportation and care of patients.
   (4)   A full description of the type and level of service to be provided
including the location of the place or places from which it is intended to
operate, the manner in which the public will be able to obtain assistance and
how the vehicles will be dispatched. A financial statement of the applicant as
the financial statement pertains to the operations in the county. Such
financial statement shall be in such form and in such detail as may be required
by the county.
   (5)   A list of radio frequencies the applicant is authorized to operate on,
and a copy of the FCC license in the name of the person providing the service.
   (6)   A description of the applicant's capability to provide 24-hour
coverage, seven days per week for the district covered by the franchise applied
for, and an accurate estimate of the minimum and maximum times for a response
to calls within such district.
   (7)   Any information the county shall deem reasonably necessary for a fair
determination of the capability of the applicant to provide ambulance services
in the county in accordance with the requirements of state laws and the
provisions of this chapter.
   (8)   The county may establish and from time to time revise a schedule of
rates, fees and charges that may be charged by franchised operators.
   (9)   The county may establish and from time to time revise a schedule of
rates, fees and charges that may be charged for the review of franchise
applications.
(Ord. of 4-6-1998, § III; Amend. of 10-2-2023)
Sec. 10-4. - Granting of franchise.
   (a)   Prior to accepting applications for the operation of an ambulance
service, the board of commissioners may designate specific service areas as
franchise districts. Such districts will be established using criteria that
includes geographic size, road access, the location of existing
medical transportation services, population, and response time. The county
shall have the authority to redistrict or rearrange existing districts at any
time at their discretion.
   (b)   An applicant may apply for a franchise to operate either emergency
transportation services or nonemergency transportation services. If more than
one type of service is to be provided, separate applications may, at the
discretion of the department, be required for each type.
   (c)   Upon receipt of an application for a franchise, the county shall
schedule a time and place formeeting the applicant. Within 30 days after the
meeting, the county shall cause such investigation as it may deem necessary to
be made of the applicant and his proposed operations.
   (d)   A franchise may be granted if the county finds that:
      (1)   The applicant shows a reasonable effort to meet state standards and
standards outlined in this chapter.
      (2)   The proposed service will fit within the existing service so as not
to adversely affect the level of service or operations of other franchisees to
render service.
      (3)   A need exists for the proposed service in order to improve the
level of services available to residents of the county and a reasonable and
cost-effective manner of meeting the need.
(Ord. of 4-6-1998, § IV; Amend. of 8-3-2020; Amend. of 10-2-2023)
Sec. 10-5. - Term of franchise.
   (a)   The county may issue a franchise under this chapter to an ambulance
provider or other provider as outlined in section 10-4(b), to be valid for a
term to be determined by the county provided that either party at its option,
may terminate the franchise upon 60 days' prior written notice to the other
party. After a notice of service termination is given, the provider may reapply
for a franchise if continued service is desired.
   (b)   Franchised providers receiving revenues from the county through county
contract or subsidy, shall provide adequate and complete information annually
for audit purposes. Failure to do so will result in termination of subsidy
until such information is provided and may at the discretion of the board
result in revocation of the franchise agreement.
   (c)   Upon suspension, revocation, or termination of a franchise granted
under this chapter, such franchised ambulance service immediately shall cease
operations. Upon suspension, revocation, or termination of a driver's license
or attendant's certificate or emergency medical technician certificate, such
persons shall cease to drive an ambulance or provide medical care in
conjunction with an ambulance service, or attend an ambulance. The franchisees
shall not or permit such an individual to drive an ambulance or provide medical
care in conjunction with the ambulance service, rescue squad or first responder
unit.
   (d)   Each franchised ambulance service shall comply at all times with the
requirements of this chapter, the franchise granted under this chapter, and all
applicable state and local laws relating to health, sanitation, safety,
equipment, ambulance design and all other laws and ordinances.
   (e)   Prior approval of the county shall be required where ownership or
control of more than ten percent of the right of control of franchisees is
acquired by a person or group of persons acting in concert, none of whom own or
control ten percent or more of such right of control, singularly or
collectively, at the date of the franchise. By its acceptance of the franchise,
the franchisee specifically agrees that any such acquisition occurring without
prior approval of the county shall constitute a violation of the franchise by
the franchisee and shall be cause for termination at the option of the county.
   (f)   Any change of ownership of a franchised ambulance service without the
approval of the county shall terminate the franchise and shall require a new
application and a new franchise and conformance with all the requirements of
this chapter.
   (g)   Any change in the level of service offered by a franchised ambulance
service, rescue/EMS agency or first responder unit without the approval of the
county shall terminate the franchise and shall require a
new application and a new franchise and conformance with all the requirements
of this chapter upon original franchising.
   (h)   No franchise may be sold, assigned, mortgaged, or otherwise
transferred without the approval of the county and a finding of conformance
with all requirements of this chapter upon original franchising. Each
franchised ambulance service, its equipment and the premises designated in the
application and all records relating to its maintenance and operation, as such,
shall be open to inspection by the state, county, or their designated
representatives.
(Ord. of 4-6-1998, § V; Amend. of 6-2-2008(2); Amend. of 8-3-2020; Amend. of
10-2-2023)
Sec. 10-6. - Standards for drivers and attendants.
   Standards for drivers and attendants as developed by the state medical care
commission as requirements for certification of medical responders and
emergency medical technicians pursuant to the General Statutes and rules and
regulations promulgated by the board of medical examiners for advanced life
support technicians shall be applied and the same are incorporated in this
chapter by reference.
(Ord. of 4-6-1998, § VI; Amend. of 10-2-2023)
Sec. 10-7. - Standards for vehicles and equipment.
   Vehicle and equipment standards, as developed by the state medical care
commission pursuant to the General Statutes, shall be applied and the same are
incorporated in this chapter by reference.
(Ord. of 4-6-1998, § VII; Amend. of 10-2-2023)
Sec. 10-8. - Standards for communications.
   (a)   Each ambulance vehicle shall be equipped with an operational two-way
radio capable of establishing good quality voice communications from within the
geographic confines of the county to each hospital emergency department in the
county in which the ambulance is based. Each ambulance vehicle shall be
equipped with two-way radio communication capabilities for communications with
all hospital emergency departments to which transportation of patients is made
on a regular or routine basis anywhere within the state. Each ambulance vehicle
shall be equipped with an operational two-way radio capable of establishing
good quality voice communications from within the geographic confines of the
county in which the ambulance dispatching agency is located.
   (b)   Each ambulance provider shall maintain current authorizations or
Federal Communication Commission licenses for all frequencies and radio
transmitters operated by that provider. Copies of all authorizations and
licenses shall be on display and available for inspection per Federal
Communication Commission's rules and regulations.
   (c)   Each base of operations must have at least one open telephone line.
Telephone numbers must be registered with each law enforcement agency and
communications center in the county.
   (d)   Each ambulance shall be dispatched from the county communications
center or an acceptable and approved alternative.
(Ord. of 4-6-1998, § VIII; Amend. of 10-2-2023)
Sec. 10-9. - Insurance.
   (a)   No ambulance franchise shall be issued under this chapter, nor shall
such franchise be valid after issuance, nor shall any ambulance be operated in
the county unless the franchisee has at all times in force and effect either
insurance coverage, issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in
the state, or a bond with personal corporate surety for each and every
ambulance owned and/or operated by or for the ambulance service providing for
the payment of damages in the following sums:
   (1)   In the minimum sum of $500,000.00 for injury to or death of one
individual and a minimum of $1,000,000.00 per accident in accidents resulting
from any cause for which the owner of such vehicle would be liable on account
of liability imposed on him by law, regardless of whether the ambulance was
being driven by the owner or his agency; and
   (2)   In the minimum sum of $100,000.00 for the loss of or damage to the
property of another, including personal property, under like circumstances, in
sums as may be required by the state or as approved by the county.
   (b)   The franchisee shall hold harmless and indemnify the county from and
against any and all liabilities, costs, damages, expenses, and attorney's fees
resulting from or attributable to any and all acts and omissions of the
franchisee. All franchisees shall maintain an errors and omissions policy in an
amount not less than $1,000,000.00. To the extent that any such liabilities,
costs, damages, expenses, and attorney's fees are compensated for by insurance,
the franchisee shall not be required to reimburse the county or the insurer for
the same.
(Ord. of 4-6-1998, § IX; Amend. of 10-2-2023)
Sec. 10-10. - Records.
   Each franchisee under this chapter shall maintain the following records:
   (1)   Record of dispatch. The record of dispatch shall show time call was
received, time ambulance dispatched, time arrived on scene, time arrived at
destination, time in service, and time returned to base.
   (2)   Trip record. The trip record shall state all information required in
subsection (1) of this section in addition to information on a form approved by
the county. The trip record shall be so designed as to provide the patient with
a copy thereof containing all required information. A copy of the trip record
may serve as a receipt for any charges paid.
   (3)   Driver and attendant checklist and inspection report. The driver and
attendant checklist and inspection report shall list contents and description
of operations for each vehicle, signed by the individual verifying vehicle
operations and equipment.
   (4)   Other data. Other data shall be submitted as requested by the
committee or the county director of emergency services.
(Ord. of 4-6-1998, § X; Amend. of 6-2-2008(2); Amend. of 10-2-2023)
Sec. 10-11. - Rates and charges.
   (a)   Each franchisee under this chapter shall submit a schedule of rates to
the county for approval and shall not charge more nor less than the approved
rates without specific approval by the county.
   (b)   No ambulance service shall attempt to collect rates on emergency calls
until the patient has reached the point of destination, has received medical
attention and is in a condition deemed by the physician fit to consult with the
ambulance service, but such services may attempt to collect rates with family
or guardian of the patient once the patient is in the process of receiving
medical attention.
   (c)   On nonemergency calls or calls where a person requires transportation
to a nonemergency facility, attempts to collect payment may be made before the
ambulance begins its trip.
(Ord. of 4-6-1998, § XI; Amend. of 8-3-2020; Amend. of 10-2-2023)
Sec. 10-12. - Enforcement.
   (a)   The county department of emergency services director shall be
responsible for:
   (1)   Overseeing of the regulations contained within this chapter.
   (2)   Receiving all franchise proposals from potential providers.
   (3)   Reviewing each proposal for conformance to this chapter.
   (4)   Recommending to the board of commissioners the approval or disapproval
of the franchise to the applicant submitting the proposal.
   (5)   Ensuring by cooperative agreement with other ambulance services the
continued service in a district where an ambulance service franchise has been
suspended, and maintaining all records required by this chapter and other
applicable county regulations.
   (b)   It shall be the responsibility of the ambulance provider to ensure
that the ambulance operation complies with the provisions of this chapter and
all rules adopted for this chapter. Upon the violation of any part of this
chapter or any rule adopted under authority of this chapter, the county shall
have the power to revoke or suspend the franchise of the violator. The
operation of an ambulance without a valid franchise or after a franchise has
been suspended or revoked or without an emergency medical technician and/or
medical responder aboard as required by G.S. 131E-158, shall constitute a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine or imprisonment or both in the discretion of
the court.
(Ord. of 4-6-1998, § XII; Amend. of 6-2-2008(2); Amend. of 8-3-2020; Amend. of
10-2-2023)
 
Chapter 11 - RESERVED
Chapter 12 - ENVIRONMENT [8] 
   (8) Cross reference—Animals,
ch. 4; land development code,
ch. 14; environmentally sensitive area district (ES), §
14-103; roads and other public places,
ch. 18; solid waste,
ch. 20; hazardous waste, §
20-71 et seq.; utilities,
ch. 24.
   (8) State Law reference—General police powers, G.S. 153A-121 et seq.
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL
   Secs. 12-1—12-30. - Reserved.
Secs. 12-1—12-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - NOISE [9] 
   (9) State Law reference—Noise regulation, G.S. 153A-133.
   Sec.
12-31. - Penalties.
   Sec.
12-32. - Loud and disturbing noise.
   Sec.
12-33. - Exceptions.
   Secs. 12-34—12-70. - Reserved.
Sec. 12-31. - Penalties.
   The violation of this article shall be punished as provided under G.S. 14-4.
Any person or corporation or other legal entity violating this article shall be
guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500.00. A
first violation of this article shall be punishable by a fine of not less than
$50.00; a second violation shall be punishable by a fine of not less than
$150.00; and a third violation, or more, each shall be punishable by a fine of
not less than $500.00.
(Ord. of 8-5-1996, § 3; Ord. of 9-4-2012)
Sec. 12-32. - Loud and disturbing noise.
   (a)   Subject to the provisions of this article, the creation, causing, or
allowing of any unreasonably loud or disturbing noise in the county is
prohibited and unlawful.
   (b)   For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall
apply:
      (l)   Unreasonably loud. Noise which is substantially incompatible with
the time and location where created to the extent that it creates an actual or
imminent interference with peace, order, or calm of the area or which is
obnoxious to or unreasonably disturbing to a person whose residence, work or
commercial enterprise is within a reasonable proximity to the point, place or
person from which such noise is emanating or emanated and the noise is such a
kind, nature, duration or extent that a reasonable person would consider the
noise to be unreasonably loud or disturbing.
      (2)   Disturbing. Noise which is perceived by a person of reasonable and
ordinary firmness and sensibilities as interrupting the normal peace, order, or
calm of such person or persons or that of the proximal area or tending to
annoy, disturb, or frighten such persons in such proximity to the point, place
or person from which such noise is emanating or emanated that a person of
reasonable and ordinary firmness and sensibilities would reasonably be or
reasonably be expected to be disturbed in his or her use, occupation, or
pursuits.
   (c)   In determining whether a noise is unreasonably loud or disturbing, the
following non-exclusive factors incident to such noise are to be considered:
time of day; proximity to residential structures; whether the noise is
consistent with the nature of the surrounding area (that is, within a
reasonable degree of proximity such that the noise could reasonably be expected
to affect the persons or persons who occupy, live or dwell in such proximity);
the range or distance from the point of emanation that the sound may be
unreasonably loud or disturbing; whether the noise is recurrent, repetitive,
intermittent, or constant; the volume or intensity of the noise; whether the
noise has been enhanced in volume or range by any type of mechanical,
electronic, or other similar means; the nature and zoning of the area; whether
the noise is related to the normal operation of a business or other labor
activity, whether the noise is subject to being controlled without unreasonable
effort or expense to the creator or person or entity causing or allowing the
emanation of such noise; and any other factor which reasonably should be
considered in determining whether a noise is unreasonably loud or disturbing.
   (d)   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud and
disturbing noises in violation of this article, but such enumeration shall not
be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   The use of any loud, boisterous or raucous language or shouting so
as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in the vicinity
or otherwise to be a loud or disturbing noise as defined under this article;
      (2)   The sounding of any horn or signal device on or from any
automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle, except as a danger signal or as
required by law, so as to create any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; or the
sounding of such device for an unreasonable period of time.
      (3)   The playing of any radio, television set, record player, musical
instrument or sound-producing or sound- amplifying device in such manner or
with such volume, particularly, but not limited to, the hours between 11:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m., as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of
persons of reasonable and ordinary firmness and normal sensibilities in any
dwelling, motel, hotel or other type of residence.
      (4)   The keeping of any animal, except livestock and poultry maintained
and kept consistent with the zoning applicable to the property where kept,
which by causing frequent or long continued noise on a regular basis, shall
disturb the comfort and repose of any person of reasonable and ordinary
firmness and sensibilities in the vicinity or which may otherwise be an
unreasonably loud or disturbing noise as defined under this article. With
respect to this subsection only, if the violation continues or complaints are
received from other households, the owner shall be granted ten working days to
remedy and rectify the situation before issuance of a citation.
      (5)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle, ATV or other motor vehicle
or vehicle of any kind which may be so out of repair, so modified from factory
settings or equipment, and/or so loaded or operated in such manner, as to
create loud grating, grinding, rattling or other noise caused by or emanating
from such vehicle or its operation or which otherwise shall be, create or cause
an unreasonably loud or disturbing noise as defined under this article.
   (e)   Enforcement. The violation of this section shall be punished as
provided under G.S. 14-4. Any person or corporation or other legal entity
violating this article shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and shall be
fined not more than $500.00. A first violation of this article shall be
punishable by a fine of not less than $50.00; a second violation shall be
punishable by a fine of not less than $150.00; and a third violation, or more,
each shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $500.00.
(Ord. of 8-5-1996, § 1; Ord. of 3-7-2011; Ord. of 9-4-2012; Amend. of 12-6-
2021)
Sec. 12-33. - Exceptions.
   The following are exempt from the provisions of this article:
      (1)   Noises generated, made or created during the regular operations of
a manufacturing or industrial facility, defined as any premises where goods or
wares are made, processed, warehoused or stored or where manufacturing is
legally permitted and carried on and the owner of such manufacturing or
industrial facility takes or has taken reasonable steps not to cause, create or
allow unreasonably loud or disturbing noise not necessarily inherent to such
manufacturing or industrial facility.
      (2)   Noises generated, made or created by fire, law enforcement,
ambulance, rescue or other emergency vehicles while such vehicles are engaged
in their proper functions.
      (3)   Parades, fairs, circuses, other similar public entertainment
events, sanctioned sporting events, athletic contests, sporting events and
sporting activities taking place in areas set aside for such activities, or any
activities normally associated with any of the above, when such events and
activities take place between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. After 11:00
p.m., persons engaged in these events and activities who create or allow noise
which is prohibited by section 12-32 shall be in violation of this article or
of such ordinance.
      (4)   Construction operations for which building permits have been issued
or construction operations not requiring permits due to ownership of the
project by an agency of government; provided all equipment is operated in
accordance with manufacturer's specifications and with all standard equipment,
manufacturer's mufflers and noise-reducing equipment in use and in proper
operating condition.
      (5)   All noises coming from the normal operations of properly equipped
aircraft, not including scale model aircraft.
      (6)   Lawnmowers and agricultural equipment and landscape maintenance
equipment when operated with all the manufacturer's standard mufflers and
noise-reducing equipment in use and in reasonable operating condition.
      (7)   Emergency work necessary to restore property to a safe condition
following a fire, accident or natural disaster, or to restore public utilities,
or to protect persons or property from an imminent danger.
      (8)   Noises resulting from the provision of government services.
      (9)   Noise from noisemakers and fireworks on holidays or at times
allowed under a pyrotechnics permit issued pursuant to G.S. 14-410 et seq.
      (10)   Noise from trains and associated railroad rolling stock when
operated in proper repair and manner.
      (11)   Noise from the discharge of a firearm or firearms when the firearm
is being used to take birds or animals pursuant to G.S. chapter 113, subchapter
IV, or when lawfully used in defense of person or property, or when used
pursuant to lawful directions of law-enforcement officers.
(Ord. of 8-5-1996, § 2; Ord. of 9-4-2012)
Secs. 12-34—12-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - RESERVED [10] 
   (10) Editor's note—Ord. of May 13, 2002 repealed in its entirety Art. III,
which was superseded by North Carolina State Standards and County Rules adopted
by the Johnston County Board of Health in accordance with the State Well
Construction Act. The original Art. III pertained to well construction
standards and derived from Ord. of Nov. 26, 1979, §§ I—VII, XI.
   Secs. 12-71—12-80. - Reserved.
Secs. 12-71—12-80. - Reserved.
Chapter 13 - RESERVED
Chapter 14 - LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE*
   *Editor's note—Growth Management Residential Development Allocation System,
the provisions of which expire on December 31, 2002.
   1.   PURPOSE AND INTENT
   The purpose and intent of this ordinance is to:
      a)   Enact an ordinance that is general in nature and is applicable to
all property subject to regulation by the county establishing a Growth
Management Development Allocation System in Johnston County's planning
jurisdiction to regulate the rate at which the county issues building permits
for certain residential dwelling units.
      b)   Implement the policies and goals of the Johnston County Strategic
Plan relating to growth management strategy, provision of school facilities,
transportation, provision of public water and sewer facilities, economic
development and preservation of rural character.
      c)   To establish a residential development management and allocation
system to manage the rate of residential development to ensure that:
         1)   Growth is orderly and that the County can continue to provide
effective public services and to prevent any deterioration in the delivery of
those services as residential development increases;
         2)   The fiscal impact of such development does not exceed revenue
available from such development and other sources to pay the cost of public
services and facilities, particularly the County's financial obligation related
to schools;
         3)   The community and visual character of the county as a desirable
place to live and conduct business is maintained and that property values are
protected throughout the county; and
         4)   The density of population in the county is managed carefully to
prevent overcrowding and congestion.
   2.   FINDINGS
   The Johnston County Board of Commissioners makes the following findings:
      a)   That the growth rate of the County over the past decade exceeds the
growth rate of the region, the State of North Carolina and the United States as
a whole;
      b)   The County's school enrollment is currently 20,279 pupils;
since1990, the County's school enrollment has increased by 5,769 students, of
that number, 4,211 students have been added since 1995; Johnston County has one
of the fastest growing school enrollments in the state;
      c)   That the sustained high rate of residential development and
associated population growth in the county has and continues to increase the
County's financial burden for required public services, infrastructure and the
provision of public school facilities,
      d)   That the cost of county services and facilities necessitated by a
typical residential unit exceeds the tax revenues generated thereby;
      e)   That there is an imbalance between residential and nonresidential
development in the county that further reduces the per capita revenues
available to the county in comparison to the level of revenues that may be
available when residential and nonresidential development are balanced; and
      f)   That the county would benefit from a moderate rate of residential
development to afford it additional time to plan and provide necessary
infrastructure, services and public school facilities to accommodate new
residential development, to attract new nonresidential development that will
provide revenues to the county to assist in the financing of such services,
infrastructure and public school facilities, and to maintain reasonable
property tax rates, fees, and other charges for its citizens.
   3.   APPLICABILITY
      a)   Residential Development Allotment. After the effective date of this
ordinance, no application for a building permit for construction of a
residential dwelling unit on a legal lot shall be granted by the county until
the applicant is awarded a residential land use permit for that unit on that
lot pursuant to this ordinance or such development is exempted from this
ordinance as set forth below.
      b)   Exempt Development. The following developments are exempted from the
requirement of securing a residential development allotment as a condition
precedent to the issuance of a building permit:
         1)   All nonresidential development, including civic, commercial,
industrial, and institutional development;
         2)   Remodeling, restoration, reconstruction, or replacement of
legally established structures that does not increase the number of residential
dwelling units that existed previously on the site; and
         3)   Housing that is restricted to occupancy by elderly people over
sixty-two years of age or handicapped persons as defined in this ordinance.
   4.   RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT ALLOCATION
      a)   Allocation for 2000. The Board of County Commissioners hereby
establishes an annual residential dwelling allocation of 2,057 units that shall
be awarded on a prorata basis according to the procedures and formula set forth
in sections 5 and 6 of this ordinance. The first allocation date following the
adoption of this ordinance shall be January 1, 2000, or such time as this
ordinance becomes effective pursuant to section 12 herein.
      b)   Annual Allocation. The annual allocation shall increase at a rate of
no more than 5.6 percent of the previous years annual allocation until such
time as the Board of Commissioners determine. This determination shall be based
upon an annual review of the needs of the County with respect to the purposes,
intent, goal and findings of the County set out herein and elsewhere regarding
the impact of growth on the County, that a different rate of increase is
warranted.
      c)   Frequency of Allotments. There shall be 12 allocation dates during
each allocation year.
      d)   Maximum Allotment. No single applicant may apply for an allocation
in excess of the number available in the allocation period.
      e)   Unused Allotments. If the number of monthly allotment requests are
less than the monthly allotment number, then any unused allocations are
"rolled-over" into the following monthly allocation period.
      f)   Adjustment of Annual Residential Development Allocation. If
conditions warrant, the Board of County Commissioners, upon advice by the
County Manager, based on the criteria set forth in this ordinance, may increase
or decrease the annual allocation on or before December 31 of each allocation
year. However, if the allocation is reduced, it shall not reduce or revoke any
allotments made pursuant to the previously existing allocation.
   5.   DEVELOPMENT ALLOTMENT APPLICATION PROCEDURES
      a)   Application For Allotment. The application for allotments shall be
completed on a form provided by the Johnston County Planning Director.
      b)   Review of Application. The Planning Director, in a timely manner,
shall review for completeness all applications for allotments and certification
of exemption or priority.
      c)   Residential Development Allotment Award. The Planning Director
shall, utilizing the allocation formula set forth in section 6, calculate
allotments for the allotment period.
      d)   Notification of Allotment. Upon finalization of the allotments
awarded by the Planning Director, the Planning Director shall publish such
allotments, and all other applications and their ranking, by posting at the
County Courthouse. All applicants who received an allotment shall be notified
by mail. Successful applicants may apply for issuance of a Building Permit for
the applicable number of residential dwelling units subject to complying with
requirements of all other applicable County ordinances and regulations.
      e)   Fees. Reasonable fees sufficient to cover the costs of
administration, inspection, publication of notices and similar matters may be
charged to applicants for a Residential Development Allotment. The amount of
such fees shall be fixed by the Board of Commissioners.
   6.   RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT ALLOTMENT CALCULATION
      a)   Monthly Allocation. For each monthly allocation period, the total
number of allotments available shall be calculated by dividing the annual
allocation by 12.
      b)   Prorata Allotment Formula. For each monthly allocation period, the
number of allotments to be awarded to each applicant shall be equal to the
number of allotments requested by that applicant multiplied by the total number
of allotments available in that allocation period divided by the total number
of allotments requested in that allocation period.
      c)   One Time Allotment. A "one time" allotment will be awarded to an
owner of a legal, buildable single family lot provided that the lot owner will
occupy the structure that is to be built upon the lot granted the allocation.
No one time allocation shall be awarded for a lot that is intended to be sold
by a developer, a corporation, limited partnership builder, real estate agent,
or other entity that does not intend to occupy the structure to be built upon
the lot receiving the allocation. Use of a one time allotment makes the
existing landowners and any purchasers of the property ineligible for any
additional new residential permits for the following 12 months.
      d)   Excess Allotments. In the event that fewer allotments are requested
than are available during any allotment period, the Planning Director shall
grant all allotments requested within a reasonable time of application date.
      e)   Unused Allotments. If the number of monthly allotment requests is
less than the monthly allotment number, then any unused allocations are
"rolled-over" into the following monthly allocation period.
      f)   Expired Applications. Applications for allotments not allocated
within a monthly allotment period will expire.
   7.   REVIEW AND MONITORING
      a)   Annual Allocation Review. The County shall on a quarterly basis,
review the rate, amount, and location of residential development in the
County's planning jurisdiction, monitor the impacts of such development and
determine whether such development is in accord with the policies and goals of
the Strategic Plan and other County development policies and so report to the
Board of Commissioners.
      b)   Expiration of Allotment. Any allotment granted pursuant to this
ordinance shall expire within sixty days unless a valid building permit is
obtained for the property for which the permit is being issued.
   8.   APPEALS
      a)   Any person aggrieved by a final decision or order of the Planning
Director pursuant to this ordinance may appeal to the Board of Adjustment. All
appeals are to be filed within ten working days after such final decision or
order. Upon filing of an appeal, the Planning Director shall forward to the
Board of Adjustment all relevant files and records relating to the matter.
      b)   The filing of an appeal shall not stay the action of the County.
      c)   The Board of Adjustment may affirm, modify, or overrule the decision
of the Planning Director based on the criteria provided in this ordinance.
      d)   If as a result of a successful appeal, additional allotments are
made, the following monthly allotments will be reduced by the same number of
allotments granted on appeal.
      e)   Any person aggrieved by a final decision or order of the County
pursuant to this ordinance may appeal as provided by law.
   9.   RULES OF PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
   The Planning Director is authorized to adopt rules of procedure, application
requirements, and administrative regulations to implement the provisions of
this ordinance.
   10.   RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER ORDINANCES
      a)   Land Use Permits. No Land Use Permit relating to a residential
development shall be issued until the applicant shall have been awarded a
residential development allotment whenever such allotment is required by the
terms of this ordinance.
      b)   Conflict. To the extent of any conflict between this ordinance and
any other County ordinance or regulation, the more restrictive is deemed to be
controlling. Otherwise, all provisions and procedures contained in those
ordinances and regulations shall remain in full force and effect and shall
regulate all changes in land use and development.
      c)   Compliance With Other Ordinances. In addition to the requirements of
this ordinance, the applicant shall comply with all other applicable
ordinances, including County land development ordinances and regulations prior
to the County issuing a Land Use Permit.
   11.   DEFINITIONS
      a)   Allocation Year. The period from January 1, to December 31, of the
succeeding year.
      b)   Annual Residential Development Allocation. The maximum number of
residential units that will be available for allotment in any allocation year
as established by the Johnston County Board of Commissioners.
      c)   County Manager. The County Manager of the county of Johnston or his
designee,
      d)   Handicapped Person. "Handicapped" means, with respect to a person -
(1) a physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one or more of
such person's major life activities, (2) a record of having such an impairment,
or (3) being regarded as having such an impairment, but such term does not
include current, illegal use of or addiction to a controlled substance
      e)   Nonresidential Development. Any public or private development,
including civic, commercial, industrial, institutional, religious, and other
projects that do not provide housing or dwelling units for occupation other
than on a transient basis (such as hotels). Any residential portion of a mixed-
use development shall be subject to the provisions and requirements of this
ordinance.
      f)   Planning Director. The Planning Director of the county of Johnston
or his designee.
      g)   Residential Development Allotment. An award of a specific number of
units from the annual residential development allocation by the Board of County
Commissioners. An allotment is an approval required as a condition precedent to
obtaining a building permit unless otherwise provided by this ordinance.
      h)   Residential Unit. Any building or structure, including mobile homes,
manufactured and modular homes, that is wholly or partially used or intended to
be used for living or sleeping by one or more human occupants.
   12.   EFFECTIVE DATE
   The provisions of this ordinance shall become effective upon a finding that
the number of residential permits that may be issued in an allotted period is
likely to exceed the annual allocation set forth in section 4.a of this
ordinance,
   Further, the provisions of this ordinance shall expire on December 31, 2002.
   Cross reference—Environment,
ch. 12; roads and other public places,
ch. 18; utilities,
ch. 24.
   State law reference—Building codes, G.S. 143-138 and 153A-351; planning and
development, G.S. 153A-320 et seq.
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL
   Sec.
14-1. - Short title.
   Sec.
14-2. - Authority.
   Sec.
14-3. - Jurisdiction.
   Sec.
14-4. - Intent.
   Sec.
14-5. - Required conformance to chapter provisions.
   Sec.
14-6. - Definitions.
   Sec.
14-7. - Bona fide farms not affected by this chapter.
   Sec.
14-8. - Existing lots of insufficient size.
   Sec.
14-9. - Exception to height regulations.
   Sec.
14-10. - Statutory zoning vested right provisions; site specific vesting plan.
   Sec.
14-11. - Establishment of a zoning vested right.
   Sec.
14-12. - Approval procedures and approval authority.
   Sec.
14-13. - Duration.
   Sec.
14-14. - Termination.
   Sec.
14-15. - Limitations.
   Sec.
14-16. - Repeal.
   Sec.
14-17. - Fees.
   Secs. 14-18—14-50. - Reserved.
Sec. 14-1. - Short title.
   This chapter shall be known as and may be cited as the "Johnston County
Development Ordinance."
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 1.1)
Sec. 14-2. - Authority.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to authority contained in G.S. ch. 160D and
ch. 153A article 6.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 1.2; Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-3. - Jurisdiction.
   This chapter shall be effective throughout the county's planning
jurisdiction.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 1.3)
Sec. 14-4. - Intent.
   (a)   Declaration of necessity. In order to protect and promote the health,
safety, and general welfare of the county and its planning jurisdiction, this
chapter is adopted by the board of county commissioners to regulate and
restrict by means of zoning regulations the height, number of stories, and size
of buildings and other structures; the percentage of lots that may be occupied;
the size and availability of yards, courts and other open spaces; the density
of population; and the location and use of buildings, structures, and land for
trade, industry, residence and other purposes.
   (b)   Purpose. The purpose of the regulations set forth in this chapter
shall be to accomplish compatible development of the land within the planning
jurisdiction of the county in a manner which will best promote the health,
safety, and general welfare; to promote efficiency, energy conservation, and
economy in development; to make adequate provisions for traffic; to secure
safety from fire, flooding, panic, and other hazards; to provide for adequate
light and air; to prevent overcrowding of land; to avoid inappropriate
concentration of population; to facilitate the adequate provision of
transportation, public water, sewerage, schools and other public requirements;
to promote desirable living conditions and the stability of neighborhoods; and
to achieve other purposes in accordance with the comprehensive plan and
development policies for the county's planning jurisdiction.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 1.4)
Sec. 14-5. - Required conformance to chapter provisions.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, no land or
structure shall be used or occupied, and no excavation, removal of soil,
clearing of a site, or placing of fill shall take place on lands contemplated
for development, and no structure, or part of a structure, shall be
constructed, erected, altered or moved, except in compliance with all of the
applicable provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 1.5)
Sec. 14-6. - Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning. For the purpose of this chapter, certain
terms or words used in this chapter shall be interpreted as follows:
   (1)   The words "used" and "occupied" include the words "intended, designed,
and arranged to be used as occupied."
   (2)   Terms not defined in this chapter shall have the meanings customarily
assigned to them.
   (3)   Definitions specific to a specialized area, such as stormwater
management, flood control and other technical and engineering definitions are
contained within that specific article.
   Accessory structure or use means a structure or use incidental to another
use of a structure on the same lot.
   Adjoining means when one property adjoins another, shares a common property
line or is immediately adjacent to, or abutting it.
   Adult day care facility means a use of land and buildings licensed by the
state that provides care to seven or more aging, disabled or handicapped adults
away from their homes, and by persons other than family members, guardians, or
custodians. The term "adult day care facility" shall not be construed to
include a group care facility.
   Adult establishment means any business by its nature or use that is intended
to serve patrons of age 18 years or older which may or may not be limited to,
those businesses regulated under CCO
chapter 6, article 3.
   Agriculture farm, bona fide means an agricultural land use that includes the
production and activities relating or incidental to the production of crops,
fruits, vegetables, ornamental and flowering plants, dairy, livestock, poultry,
fish, and all other forms of agricultural products having a domestic or foreign
market, meeting the requirements of agricultural land, and having an NC USDA
farm number.
   Agriculture farm, livestock means the use of land for the keeping, grazing,
feeding or breeding of livestock, including cattle, hogs, sheep, goats, and
poultry, and also animal specialties such as horses, rabbits, bees, and fish
and fur-bearing animals in captivity.
   Agriculture farm, nonlivestock means the use of land for the production of
cash grains, field crops, vegetables, fruits, and nuts, and for nonhorticulture
and floriculture.
   Agricultural land means land consisting of ten acres or more that are in
actual production and having gross income from the sale of agricultural
products produced thereon (together with payments received under a soil
conservation or land retirement program) averaging $1,000.00 per year for the
immediately preceding three years. Reference Farmland Taxation Act, G.S. 105-
277.3.
   Agri-tourism means the act of visiting a working farm or any agricultural,
horticultural or agri-business operation for the purpose of enjoyment,
education or active involvement in the activities of the farm or operation.
   Apartment means a room or unit of one or more rooms, with kitchen
facilities, and are designated or intended to be used, as an independent unit.
   Applicant means any person who submits to the county a request or plans for
the purpose of obtaining approval thereof under this chapter.
   Automobile, antique means a motor vehicle that is at least 35 years old
measured from the date of manufacture and has an NC DMV historic vehicle
special license plate in accordance with G.S. 105-330.9
   Automobile car wash means a lot on which motor vehicles are washed or waxed,
either by the patron or by others.
   Automotive display and sales means a lot where three or more vehicles are
displayed for the purpose of sale. For the purpose of automotive display and
sales a dealer's license must be obtained from NC DMV, if five or more vehicles
are displayed or sold within 12 consecutive months, in accordance with G.S. 20
article 12.
   Automotive, motor home, farm implement sales or rental means the sale or
rental of new and/or used motor vehicles, motor homes, trailers, or farm
implements to be displayed and sold on the premises.
   Automotive parts sales means an establishment which sales vehicle parts and
accessories. Not to be considered automotive repair.
   Automotive repair, mechanical means the repair, rebuilding, or
reconditioning of motor vehicles or parts of motor vehicles.
   Automotive repair, paint/body means the repair of collisions to include
mechanical, body/fender work, painting and steam cleaning of vehicles.
   Automotive service station means a facility where gasoline, diesel fuel,
oil, grease, and automotive accessories are supplied and dispensed to a motor
vehicle trade. In addition, sales of automotive parts, tires and other
automotive supplies may be rendered as well as minor repairs to vehicles and
replacement of parts which are made on site. This definition does not include
those uses allowed under the definition of automotive repair, paint/body.
   Bank/credit union means financial institutions engaged in deposit banking
and closely related functions such as extensions of credit by means of loans
and investments, and fiduciary services.
   Bar means an establishment, public or private, in which alcoholic beverages
are sold as the principle product, which may or may not have an environmental
health restaurant permit. Not intended to mean "restaurant". Also known as
saloon, tavern, etc.
   Bed and breakfast inn means a lodging facility in which the operator resides
and which is established for the purpose of providing temporary overnight
accommodations for tourists, vacationers and other similar transients.
   Bedroom means sleeping room.
   Berm means a manmade mound of earth material with gently sloping sides and
crown.
   Board of adjustment means the quasijudicial body composed of appointed
representatives from the county which are given certain powers under and
relative to ordinances of the county.
   Boarding house means a structure which contains four or more rooms, which
may have no kitchen facilities, and are designed or intended to be used for
residential occupancy on a rental basis.
   Buffer means a strip of land with natural or planted vegetation located
between a use or structure and the street, side and rear property lines
intended to separate and partially obstruct the view of adjacent land uses or
properties.
   Buildable lot means a lot of record created under the requirements of this
chapter, or under the standards of previous requirements, containing sufficient
area, exclusive of easements, flood hazards, water bodies, well and wastewater
disposal tank fields; sufficient total dimensions; sufficient means wastewater
disposal system; and sufficient access to permit construction thereon of a
principal building together with its required parking and buffer yards.
   Building means any structure designed or intended for the support,
enclosure, shelter, or protection of persons, animals, property, or any other
use or occupancy.
   Building, accessory means a subordinate building detached from, but located
on the same lot as, the principal building, the use of which is incidental and
accessory to that of the principal building.
   Building, detached means a building having no common wall with the principal
building.
   Building, principal means a building or, a group of buildings, in which the
principal use of the lot is conducted.
   Business, convenience store means commercial establishments that generally
serve day-to-day commercial needs of an area, including gasoline, diesel fuel,
food stores other than supermarkets, and restaurants/grill establishments as an
accessory.
   Business, wholesale means commercial establishments that generally sell
commodities in large quantities or by the piece to retailers, jobbers or other
wholesale establishments with a wholesale or retail license for resale.
   CCO means the Johnston County Code of Ordinances.
   Cemetery means land used or intended to be used for burial of the human dead
and dedicated for cemetery purposes, including crematories, mausoleums, and
mortuaries if operated in connection with and within the boundaries of such
cemetery.
   Certificate of occupancy means a document issued by the building inspector
certifying compliance with all applicable state and local construction codes,
including all terms of an approved land use permit or special use permit, and
authorizing occupancy of a building or structure.
   Child day care facility means a facility for the care and/or education of
nine or more preschool-age and/or school-age children. A child care facility
may keep 16 or fewer children when located within a dwelling.
   A facility shall be licensed by the state, as defined in G.S. 110 article 7,
for the care and/or education of three or more preschool-age children or nine
or more school-age children.
   Child home day care means a dwelling in which the care and/or education of
eight or less preschool-age and/or school-age children.
   The dwelling shall be licensed by the state, as defined in G.S. 110 article
7, for the care and/or education of three or more preschool-age children or
nine or more school-age children.
   Clinic means an establishment used for the care, diagnosis, therapy, or
counseling of sick, ailing, infirmed, or injured persons or nonmedical therapy
and counseling on an out-patient basis.
   Club, public or private means an establishment operated by a corporation or
association of persons for social, literary, political, educational, fraternal,
or charitable purposes, that may or may not be operated for profit. Not to be
considered an adult business or sexually oriented businesses as intended in CCO
chapter 6, article 3.
   Cluster development means the grouping of buildings in order to conserve
land resources and provide for innovation in the design of the project
including minimizing stormwater runoff impacts. This term includes
nonresidential development as well as single-family residential and multifamily
developments.
   Commercial vehicles means a "commercial, industrial or construction truck or
vehicle" as used herein [and] is defined as having a manufacturer's rating of
more than one ton or a payload capacity of 6,000 pounds or more, whichever is
greater. For purposes of clarification, but without limitation, this definition
includes dump trucks, tractor-trailers, tankers, tank trucks, buses, large
panel vans, trailers and construction equipment or any part thereof.
   Construction plat means a plan with supporting data for a proposed
subdivision, developed for the purpose of establishing the layout and provision
of roads and utilities.
   Crematorium facility means a facility in which human remains are cremated. A
facility may consist of one or more cremator furnaces and provide crematory
services to funeral homes.
   Density means the average number of families, persons, or housing units per
acre of land.
   Developing land means a zoning lot on which surveying for development is
currently taking place or for which an application is currently being reviewed
for development by the county planning staff or for which development
activities have been approved.
   Development means any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, the construction, erection, structural
alteration, or enlargement of any building or other structure; mining;
dredging; filling; grading; paving; excavation or drilling operations; clearing
of vegetation; and any division of land into two or more parcels of land.
   Drainageway means any stream, watercourse, channel, ditch or similar
physiographic feature draining water from the land.
   Drive-in restaurant means an establishment that provides employee curb
service or accommodations through special equipment or facilities for the
ordering of food or beverage from a vehicle.
   Driveway means a vehicular way, other than a street or alley, that provides
vehicular access from a street.
   Dwelling means any building or structure that is wholly or partly used,
intended, or designed to be used, rented, leased, let or hired out to be
occupied for living purposes by one or more human occupants.
   Dwelling, manufactured home means a structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which meets all the following requirements:
   (1)   Meets all of the requirements of the Federal Manufactured Home
Construction and Safety Standards Act, commonly known as the HUD standards;
   (2)   Is designed to be used as a dwelling unit;
   (3)   Is eight feet or more in width, and or 40 feet or more in length; or,
when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet;
   (4)   Is built on a permanent chassis;
   (5)   Is connected to required utilities during set-up, including plumbing,
heating and electrical systems contained therein;
   (6)   When set up, it has a foundation and skirting installed in accordance
with the North Carolina Department of Insurance Regulations for Manufactured
Home Installation Standards; and
   Dwelling, mobile home means a single portable manufactured housing unit, or
combination of two or more sections forming a unit connected on site, that
meets the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development requirements, and
is:
   (1)   Designed to be used by one family only and containing independent
kitchen, sanitary, and sleeping facilities;
   (2)   Designed so that each housing unit can be transported on its own
chassis;
   (3)   Placed on a temporary or semi-permanent foundation; and
   (4)   Is over 32 feet in length and over eight feet in width.
   Dwelling, modular home means a manufactured building designed to be used as
a one- or two-family dwelling which has been constructed and labeled indicating
compliance with the state residential building code.
   Dwelling, multifamily means a dwelling or combination of dwellings on a
single lot consisting of three or more dwelling units.
   Dwelling, single-family means a detached building designed for or occupied
exclusively by one family.
   Dwelling, townhouse means a single-family dwelling unit constructed in a row
of attached units separated by property lines and which exterior walls on at
least two sides. For the purpose of density calculations, townhouses shall be
counted as individual units.
   Dwelling, townhouse two-unit means two attached single-family dwelling
units, separated by a property line and with exterior walls on three sides. For
the purpose of density calculations, a two-unit townhouse shall be counted as
two dwelling units. Additionally, the building must meet building code
requirements for townhouses and have independent waste water disposal systems.
   Dwelling, two-family (duplex) means a building either designed for or
occupied by two families living independently of each other. For the purpose of
density calculations, a duplex building shall be counted as one dwelling unit.
   Dwelling unit means a single independent habitable unit providing complete,
independent living facilities for one or more persons, including permanent
provisions for living, sleeping, sanitation, cooking and eating purposes.
   Easement means any entitlement or right of the public, a corporation, or
person to use land owned by another for purposes specified in the easement
agreement.
   Extraction of earth products means the process of removal of natural
deposits of mineral ores, soils, stone and gravel, or other solid matter from
their original location, not including any processing of such material beyond
incidental mechanical consolidation or sorting to facilitate transportation off
site.
   Fabrication means the processing and/or assemblage of various components
into a complete or partially completed commodity, fabrication related to
stamping, cutting, or otherwise shaping the processed materials into useful
objects, and the refining aspects of manufacturing and other initial processing
of basic raw materials such as metal, ore, lumber, and rubber, etc., are also
included.
   Familial relationship, close means a spouse, parent, child, brother, sister,
grandparent, or grandchild. The term includes the step, half, and in-law
relationships.
   Family care home means a home with support and supervisory personnel
licensed with the state that provides room and board, personal care and
habilitation services in a family environment for not more than six resident
persons with disabilities and defined in G.S. 168-21. Also known as "group
home" or "adult care home".
   Farmers market means a market at which locally and regionally grown
agricultural or horticultural products are sold on a retail basis.
   Fitness center, also known as a health club or gym, means a place which
houses exercises equipment for the purpose of physical exercise.
   Flag lot means an irregularly shaped lot where the buildable portion of the
lot is connected to its street frontage by an arm, or flagpole, of the lot.
   Flea market means an outdoor or indoor market where individual sellers offer
second-hand and/or new goods for sale to the public.
   Flood and flooding mean a general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or
tidal waters or the unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters
from any sources.
   Flood hazard boundary map means the official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special flood
hazard and the risk management zones applicable to the county.
   Forested land means land consisting of twenty acres or more of wooded land
that are in actual production and have a forestry plan. Reference Farmland
Taxation Act, G.S. 105-277.3.
   Funeral home means an establishment engaging in the care or disposition of
human remains, or in the practice of preparing by embalming or cremation of
human remains for the funeral service, transportation, burial or cremation, or
in the practice of funeral directing. A funeral home may have a crematorium for
the sole use of the funeral home. Also see crematorium facility.
   Gross floor area means the sum of the gross horizontal areas of each floor
of the principal building, and any accessory building or structures measured
from outside of the exterior walls or from the center line of party walls. The
term does not include any area used exclusively for the surface parking of
motor vehicles or for building or equipment access, such as stairs, elevator
shafts, and maintenance crawlspace.
   Group care facility means an establishment qualified for a license by the
state for the provision of resident services of seven or more individuals of
whom one or more are unrelated, and who are handicapped, aged, disabled, or who
are runaway, disturbed, or emotionally deprived children and who are undergoing
rehabilitation or extended care, and who are provided services to meet their
needs. Included in this definition are group homes for all ages, halfway
houses, boarding homes for children, and convalescent and nursing homes.
   Group care home means a home with support and supervisory personnel licensed
with the state that provides room and board, personal care and habilitation
services in a family environment for not more than six resident persons with
disabilities and defined in G.S. 168-21. Also known as "family care home" or
"adult care home".
   G.S. means General Statute[s] of the State of North Carolina.
   Government use facility means a facility federal, state, or local government
use. Such facilities may include police, fire, EMS stations; general offices;
civil defense centers. Any facility that may be considered noxious, hazardous,
dangerous, or offensive shall not be included in this definition.
   Hair salon means a business establishment that primarily offers hair cuts
and styling. Hair salons may offer nail care services but shall not be
construed to mean day spa. Also known as beauty/barber shops.
   Hazardous materials means those materials that are listed in the most
current consolidated list of chemicals covered by the Superfund Amendments and
Reauthorization Act of 1986, title III.
   Height (of a structure or part of a structure) means the vertical distance
from the mean natural grade at the foundation to the highest portion of the
structure, or part of a structure.
   Home occupation means an occupation customarily conducted for profit within
a dwelling unit by the occupant(s) of the dwelling unit. Examples of permitted
home occupations include, but are not limited to, home offices, sewing/
tailoring, artistic painting, sculpting, crafting, tutoring, catering, barber/
beauty shops.
   Home occupations are subject to the following provisions:
   (1)   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be clearly
incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purpose by its occupants,
and;
      a.   Not more than 500 square feet or 25 percent of the dwelling unit
floor area, whichever is greater, shall be used to conduct the home occupation,
and
      b.   If an accessory building is solely used or used in combination with
the dwelling unit for the home occupation, the maximum area allowed shall not
exceed the limitation above;
   (2)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building or
premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of such home occupation
other than one sign, not exceeding four square feet in area, non-illuminated,
and mounted flat against the wall of the building;
   (3)   Only one person other than the occupants of the dwelling unit may be
engaged in such occupation;
   (4)   Only one vehicle designed or used for the home occupation shall be
permitted in the operation of the home occupation. The vehicle shall not exceed
14 feet in height. Cargo area/work platform shall not exceed 14 feet in length.
Dump trucks, tractor-trailers, tankers, and wreckers shall not be permitted;
   (5)   No traffic, parking, sewage, or water use shall be generated by such
home occupation in greater volumes than would normally be expected in a
residential use;
   (6)   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, or electrical interference detectable
to the normal senses off the lot, or that otherwise creates a hazard or
nuisance;
   (7)   No display of products shall be visible from the street;
   (8)   The selling of merchandise or the manufacture of merchandise for sale
(except baking, sewing, and/or crafts normally made in the home) shall not be
the primary function of the home occupation;
   (9)   Instruction in music, dancing, or tutoring of academic subjects shall
be limited to four students at a time; and
   (10)   No home occupation due to type of use, equipment, or machinery shall
be permitted that involve a change in the fire rating of the structure or
portion of the structure.
   If it is determined that the proposed home occupation does not meet this
criteria, the applicant may apply for a conditional permit from the board of
adjustment.
   The following are prohibited as home occupations:
      a.   Animal hospitals/ clinic;
      b.   Automotive repair, mechanic;
      c.   Automotive repair, paint/body;
      d.   Child day care facilities;
      e.   Horse stables;
      f.   Mortuaries;
      g.   Physicians/dentists/chiropractors offices;
      h.   Kennels;
      i.   Food sales to exclude catering.
   Horticultural land  means land consisting of five acres or more that are in
actual production and having gross income from the sale of horticultural
products produced thereon (together with payments received under a soil
conservation or land retirement program) averaging $1,000.00 per year for the
immediately preceding three years. Reference Farmland Taxation Act, G.S. 105-
277.3.
   Impervious surface means a surface composed of any material that impedes or
prevents natural infiltration of water into the soil. Examples include
concrete, pavement, and gravel.
   Inert debris means solid waste consisting solely of material that is
virtually inert, that is likely to retain its physical and chemical structure
under expected conditions of disposal, and that will not pose a threat to
groundwater standards. Inert debris includes material such as concrete, brick,
concrete block, uncontaminated soil, rock and gravel.
   Junk means debris or refuse such as metals, plastics, appliances, paper,
trash, tires, and other waste; preused or unusable; that are worn,
deteriorated, or obsolete making them unusable in their existing condition, to
include junked, dismantled or wrecked automobiles, machinery, or parts thereof.
   Junked motor vehicle has the same meaning as defined by G.S. 153A-132.2.
This does not apply to "antique automobiles" as defined by G.S. 105-330.9.
   Junkyard facility means
   (1)   A facility that stores more than six junked motor vehicles;
   (2)   Uses more than 600 square feet of any lot for the storage of junk.
   Kennel means a facility operated for the purpose of boarding animals not
owned by the kennel operator or owner; or for the purpose of breeding animals
for sale.
   Land clearing debris means solid waste generated solely from land clearing
activities such as stumps, trees, limbs, brush, grass and other naturally
occurring vegetative material.
   Land clearing and inert debris landfill (LCID) means a facility for the land
disposal of inert debris, land clearing debris, yard trash and untreated and
unpainted wood. The facility is designed to meet minimum standards of the state
by utilizing acceptable landfill engineering technology.
   Land use permit means a permit issued by the county authorizing the
recipient to make use of property in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter.
   Lot means land bounded by lines legally established for the purpose of
property division.
   Lot line means a line that marks the boundary of a lot.
   Lot line, interior means any lot line that is not a street lot line; a lot
line separating a lot from another lot.
   Lot line, street means any lot line separating a lot from a street right-of-
way or easement. Where a lot line is located within such street right-of-way or
easement, the right-of-way or easement boundary adjacent of the lot shall be
considered the street lot line.
   Lot line, zero means any interior lot line along which a structure is
allowed with no setback.
   Lot of record means a lot which has been recorded in the office of the
register of deeds or a lot described by metes and bounds, the description of
which has been recorded in the office of the register of deeds.
   Lot width means the horizontal distance measured along a straight line
connecting the points at which a line demarcating the minimum street setback
required from a street lot line intersects with interior lot lines and/or other
street lot lines.
   Manufacturing, heavy means the assembly, fabrication, or processing of goods
and materials using processes that ordinarily have greater than average impacts
on the environment, or that ordinarily have significant impacts on the use and
enjoyment of adjacent property in terms of noise, smoke, fumes, odors, glare,
or health and safety hazards, or that otherwise do not constitute "light
manufacturing."
   Manufacturing, light means the assembly, fabrication, or processing of goods
and materials using processes that ordinarily do not create noise, smoke,
fumes, odors, glare, or health or safety hazards outside of the building or lot
where such assembly, fabrication, or processing takes place.
   Master plan means a conceptual plan that illustrates and defines land use
areas for residential, office, commercial, open spaces, and special facilities
or other land uses. General circulation patterns, both vehicular and
pedestrian, are identified and indicated on the conceptual plan.
   Mobile home park means any lot or part of a lot, or any parcel of land which
is used or offered as a location for three or more mobile homes, regardless of
whether or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
   Nail salon means a beauty service establish that primarily offers nail care
such as manicures, pedicures, and nail enhancements.
   Nonconforming feature means a physical feature, characteristic or a use,
building structure or other development of land that was lawfully established
prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter derives or
a subsequent chapter thereto, but does not conform to the intensity regulations
of this chapter, or the design standards of article VI of this chapter,
applicable to such use, building, structure, or development of land, including,
but not limited to, nonconforming structures, or other nonconformities.
   Nonconforming lot means a lot that was lawfully created prior to the
effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter derives or a subsequent
amendment thereto, but does not conform to the requirements of this chapter.
   Nonconforming use means a use of land, buildings, or structures that was
lawfully established prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which
this chapter derives or a subsequent amendment thereto, but does not conform to
the use regulations of article II of this chapter for the zoning district in
which it is located.
   Nursing home means a structure designed or used for residential occupancy
and providing limited medical or nursing care on the premises for occupants,
but not including a hospital or mental health center.
   Office means a use in which business, administrative, or professional
services are conducted; or where professional or clerical duties are conducted.
   Official plans means any plans officially adopted by the board of
commissioners as a guide for the development of the county consisting of maps,
charts, and texts.
   Open space, common open space and recreation area mean any space or area
characterized by great natural scenic beauty or whose openness, natural
condition, or present state of use, if retained, would enhance the present or
potential value of abutting or surrounding development, or would maintain or
enhance the conservation of natural or scenic resources; or any undeveloped or
predominately undeveloped land that has value for one or more of the following
purposes:
   (1)   Park and recreational uses;
   (2)   Conservation of land and other natural resources; or
   (3)   Historic or scenic purposes.
   Passive open space or recreation areas include scenic resources, any
undeveloped or predominately undeveloped land used for informal walking trails,
picnic areas or similar uses. Active recreation areas include playfields, tot
lots, tennis courts, swimming pools and similar active play uses. The following
land uses or land areas cannot be used to meet open space requirements of this
chapter:
   (1)   Roads, road rights-of-way, driveways, or parking areas.
   (2)   Open areas within individual subdivision lots.
   (3)   Small, narrow strips of land, or other unusual land configurations
that are not consistent with the objectives of this Chapter.
   Outdoor lighting means any lighting source designed to illuminate or
aesthetically enhance a building, parking, sign, or storage area. Lighting
shall be engineered as to be nonglaring on adjacent properties or uses and to
be "dark sky", focused as not to exceed the building parapet.
   Outparcel means a lot or parcel being part of a shopping center used for a
stand-alone building occupied by a single tenant.
   Parking deck means a multilevel building used for the purpose of parking or
storing automobiles.
   Place of worship means a structure in which persons regularly assemble for
religious worship and which is maintained and controlled by a religious body
organized to sustain public worship.
   Planned development means a residential, commercial, or combination of
residential and commercial projects located on land under unified control,
planned as a whole, and developed as a single development or in a definitely
programmed series of units or stages of development according to comprehensive
and detailed plans, with a program for the provision, operation, and
maintenance of any areas, improvements, and facilities provided for the common
use of the occupants or users of the development.
   Planning board means the body appointed by the board of commissioners to
develop and recommend long range development plans and policies, and to advise
the board of commissioners in matters pertaining to current physical
development and zoning for the county's planning jurisdiction.
   Planning director means the administrative head of the county planning
department. All references in this chapter to planning director shall mean the
planning director or his designee.
   Plat means a map, generally of a development, showing the location,
boundaries, and ownership of individual properties. A plat may simply be the
device for officially recording ownership changes or lot divisions.
   Preliminary plat means a map showing data for a proposed subdivision,
developed for the purpose of showing the general layout of lots and roads.
   Public or community sewer system means a single system of sewage collection,
treatment, and disposal owned and operated by a sanitary district, a
metropolitan sewage district, a water and sewer authority, a county or
municipality, or a public utility in accordance with G.S. 130A Article 11.
   Public/private utility facilities include water and wastewater treatment
plants; sludge treatment, handling, and disposal facilities; ground and
elevated water tanks; power generating plants; electrical transformer and
switching stations; electrical transmission lines; and solid waste collection
and transfer stations.
   Public/private utility stations include telephone utility facilities
including transformer and switching stations, telephone exchanges; public
utilities (water and sewer stations) including water, wastewater, and reclaimed
water meter vaults (above and below ground); water and reclaimed water booster
pump stations; water and reclaimed water regulatory valve stations; wastewater
pump stations; chemical feed stations; and supporting equipment including
standby power facilities, electrical equipment, and SCADA equipment including
antennas.
   Public water system means a system for the provision to the public of piped
water for human consumption if such system has at least 15 service connections
or which regularly serves 25 or more individuals year round in accordance with
G.S. 130A article 10.
   Recreation facility means a nonprofit or for-profit facility providing
recreational activities indoors or outdoors.
   Recreational vehicles and camper trailers are vehicular-type units designed
for temporary living for recreation, camping, or travel. In accordance with
North Carolina Department of Insurance these unit are prohibited for the setup
and use as permanent occupation. These units may be occupied temporarily within
zoned resort-residential district for temporary seasonal recreation.
   Register of deeds means the county register of deeds.
   Retail center means an integrated group of commercial establishments that is
planned, developed, owned and managed as a unit and provides on-site parking
facilities sufficient to serve its own parking demands. For the purpose of this
Code, a retail center shall contain at least two commercial establishments
within a maximum of 29,999 square feet of gross floor area.
   Sales floor area means the gross floor area used for display and sale of
merchandise, sales office and other areas available to the public/patron.
   Salvage operation means the reclamation, dismantling, or storage of preused
commodities, junk, and similar material for the purpose of resale, processing,
distribution, or deposition.
   School means a primary or secondary facility providing a curriculum of
academic instruction.
   Setback, interior means the horizontal distance between the interior lot
line or zoning lot line and any structure on such lot, measured perpendicular
to the lot line.
   Setback, street means the horizontal distance between the street right-of-
way and any structure on such lot, measured perpendicular to the street lot
line.
   Sexually-oriented businesses are those that operate in accordance with CCO
chapter 6 article 3.
   Shooting range facility (outdoor) means a public or private facility,
including individual shooting ranges, safety fans or shotfall zones,
structures, parking areas, and other associated improvements, designed for the
purpose of providing a place for the discharge of various types of firearms.
Does not include incidental target practice areas on private property, turkey
shoots, government facilities, or occasional “sighting-in” of firearms.
   Shopping center means an integrated group of commercial establishments that
is planned, developed, owned and managed as a unit and provides on-site parking
facilities sufficient to serve its own parking demands. For the purpose of this
code, a shopping center shall contain at least two commercial establishments
within a minimum of 30,000 square feet of gross floor area.
   Sign shall include any device that is intended and/or designed to announce,
inform, direct, and/or advertise and may be represented by words or letters,
figures, symbols or characterizations, and/or other graphics.
   Sign, outdoor advertising means any sign which advertises an establishment,
service, commodity, goods, or entertainment sold or offered on premises other
than that on which such outdoor advertising sign is located.
   Site plan review means the process whereby Johnston County review agents
review plans, of a development proposal which is a permitted use, to ensure
that it complies with applicable development regulations. Review agents may
include building inspections, environmental health, fire marshal, North
Carolina DOT, planning and zoning, public utilities, stormwater administration.
   Site specific development plan may be in the form of, but not be limited to,
any of the following approved: a planned unit development plan, a subdivision
plat, a preliminary or general development plan, a conditional or special use
permit, a conditional or special use district zoning plan, or any other land
use approval designation as may be utilized by a county. Unless otherwise
expressly provided by this chapter such a plan shall include the approximate
boundaries of the site; significant topographical and other natural features
effecting development of the site; the approximate location on the site of the
proposed buildings, structures, and other improvements; the approximate
dimensions, including height, of the proposed buildings and other structures;
and the approximate location of all existing and proposed infrastructure on the
site, including water, sewer, roads, and pedestrian walkways.
   Sleeping room means a room designated as sleeping or bedroom on the plans
and permit application.
   Solid waste means any debris or refuse including, but not limited to,
metals, plastics, appliances, construction debris, paper, household trash,
tires, land clearing debris, inert debris, junk and inoperable vehicles, and
other waste.
   Spa, day means a business establishment which people visit for
professionally administered personal care treatments including, but not limited
to, massages, facials, waxing, skin exfoliations, manicures, pedicures, and
other body treatments.
   Spa, medical means any retail cosmetic medical business that operates under
the supervision of a licensed health care professional and offers nonsurgical
cosmetic "medical" treatments including, but not limited to, laser hair
removal, medical microdermabrasions, Botox and restylane injections, and
medical peels.
   Special use means a use of land, buildings, or structures that is identified
in this chapter as a use that because of its inherent nature, extent, and
external effects, requires special care in the control of its location, design,
and methods of operation in order to ensure protection of the public health,
safety and welfare.
   Special use permit means a permit issued by the board of commissioners
authorizing the development of a zoning lot for a special use or planned
development.
   Storage means the deposition of commodities or items for the purpose of
future use or safekeeping.
   Street, arterial means streets or roads as listed in the design manual, that
function primarily to serve through-traffic movement. Limited land-parcel
access service may be accommodated, but traffic controls and street design are
intended to provide efficient through-traffic movement. All U.S. and some North
Carolina numbered highways are examples of arterial streets.
   Street, collector means streets or roads as listed in the design manual,
that function to penetrate areas, neighborhoods, public service areas, and
districts. Such streets are intended to provide both through-traffic and some
land-parcel access services in relatively equal proportions, often linking the
local street system to the arterial street system. Examples of a collector
street include some North Carolina and S.R. numbered streets.
   Streets, local are those other than arterial or collector roads that
primarily serve land-access functions. They are intended to accommodate land
parcel ingress and egress. Through-traffic movement is difficult and
discouraged by traffic controls and street design. Examples of local roads
include streets internal to subdivisions and rural areas roads.
   Street, private means a street or road that is not dedicated as a public
right-of-way, which is privately maintained, and is not taken over for
maintenance by the state.
   Street, public means a street consisting of a publicly dedicated right-of-
way.
   Structural alteration means any change, except for regular repair or
replacement, in the supporting members of a structure, such as, but not limited
to, bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders.
   Structure means anything constructed or erected which requires location on
the ground or attachment to something having a fixed location on the ground,
including, but not limited to, principal and accessory buildings, signs,
fences, walls, monuments, bridges, flagpoles, antennas and towers.
   Structure, accessory means a subordinate structure detached from, but
located on the same lot as the principal structure, the use of which is
incidental and accessory to that of the principal structure.
   Structure, principal means a structure, or where the context so indicates, a
group of structures in or which is conducted the principal use of the lot on
which such structure is located.
   Subdivider means any person who subdivides or develops any land deemed to be
a subdivision as defined in this chapter.
   Subdivision means any division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose of sale or building
development, whether immediate or future. It includes any division of land
involving the dedication of a new street or change in existing streets.
   The following divisions of land are not included in this definition and are
not subject to the requirements of article 3:
   (1)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously subdivided
and recorded lots, where the total number of lots is not increased and the
resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards set forth in article 3, and
the minimum gross lot size, minimum lot width and minimum street frontage
standards of this chapter;
   (2)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres in area,
where no public street right-of-way dedication or opening of streets is
involved;
   (3)   The public acquisition, by purchase, of strips of land for the purpose
of widening or opening of streets;
   (4)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire land area is
no greater than two acres into more than three lots, where no street right-of-
way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to or exceed
the standards set forth in article 3, and this chapter; or
   (5)   The division of a tract into parcels in accordance with the terms of a
probated will or in accordance with intestate succession under G.S. ch. 29.
   Subdivision, commercial means the subdivision of an existing development on
a zoning lot or recorded parcel that consists of commercial and/or office uses.
Such a subdivision would create two or more individual lots plus land developed
and designated for the common use and benefit of the occupants/owners of the
individual commercial subdivided lots.
   Subdivision, major means any subdivision creating three or more lots since
September 1, 2000.
   Subdivision, minor means a subdivision, of a parent parcel, creating two
lots or less since September 1, 2000.
   Sweepstakes/internet gaming facility means any business enterprise, whether
as a principal or accessory use, where persons utilize electronic machines,
including but not limited to computers and gaming terminals (collectively “the
machines”) to conduct games of chance, including sweepstakes, and where cash,
merchandise, or other items of value are redeemed or otherwise distributed,
whether or not the value of such distribution is determined by electronic games
played or by predetermined odds. Electronic gaming operations may include, but
are not limited to, internet cafes, internet sweepstakes, electronic gaming
machines/operations, or cybercafes. This does not include any lottery approved
by the State of North Carolina.
   Temporary means an event, structure, or use that exists for a limited period
of time, but no longer than 90 days.
   Tourist home means any building occupied by the owner or operator in which
rooms are rented for lodging of transients and travelers for compensation.
   Transmitting towers and facilities means the use of land, buildings or
structures for above-ground transmission and/or reception of airborne radio,
television or microwave signals, including all transmitting and receiving
towers, dishes, and antennas.
   Undeveloped land means a zoning lot on which no residential, commercial,
office or industrial activity is taking place.
   Use means the specific activity or function for which land, a building, or a
structure is designated, arranged, intended, occupied, or maintained.
   Use, conditional means a use permitted on a zoning lot only after a
conditional use permit has been issued by the board of adjustment, or the
planning board, where appropriate.
   Variance means a relaxation of the strict terms of a specific provision of
this chapter authorized by the board of adjustment in accordance with the
provisions of article XI of this chapter.
   Vendor sales means the sale of goods on a temporary basis. Vendors may set
up displays for the sale of household goods, home crafts, apparel, and food
items on commercially zoned property. Vendor sales shall be limited to Thursday
through Sunday. Vendors shall be limited to no more than two nonconsecutive
weeks at a single site, within a calendar month.
   Veterinary hospital or clinic means an establishment used for the care,
grooming, diagnosis, and treatment of sick, ailing, or injured animals in need
of medical or surgical attention.
   Warehouse means a building or compartment in a building used and
appropriated by the occupant for the deposit and safekeeping or selling of his
own goods at wholesale, and/or for the purpose of storing the goods of others
placed there in the regular course of commercial dealing and trade to be again
removed and reshipped.
   Wireless telecommunications tower/facility. See LDC subsection
14-257(o)(3).
   Zoning lot means the area within a zoning boundary of a parcel which has
more than one zoning district.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 2.1; Amend. of 4-14-2003; Amend. of 8-11-2003; Amend. of
8-6-2007; Amend. of 6-1-2009(1); Amend. of 9-7-2010; Amend. of 7-2-2012; Amend.
of 2-3-2014; Amend. of - - )
   Cross reference—Definitions generally, §
1-2.
Sec. 14-7. - Bona fide farms not affected by this chapter.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to affect bona fide farms as
covered by G.S. 106-2 et seq., but any use of such property for nonfarm
purposes shall be subject to the regulations of this chapter.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 1.6)
Sec. 14-8. - Existing lots of insufficient size.
   Any lot of record existing before the adopted date of the ordinance from
which this chapter is derived, which has an area or width which is less than
required by this chapter, shall be subject to the following exceptions and
modifications:
   (1)   Adjoining lots. When two or more adjoining lots with continuous
frontage are in one ownership at any time after the adoption of the ordinance
from which this chapter is derived, and such lots individually are less than
the minimum square footage and/or have less than the minimum width required in
the district in which they are located, then such group of lots shall be
considered as a single lot or several lots of minimum permitted width and area
for the district in which located. This does not apply to lots of record or to
any lot in a subdivision which has received final approval from the county
planning board. However, such lots must be at least one acre in area, unless
served by a public water system, and must meet all county health department
requirements.
   (2)   Lot not meeting minimum lot size requirements. Except as set forth in
subsection (1) of this section, in any district in which single-family
dwellings are permitted, any lot of record existing at the time of the adoption
of these regulations which has an area or width which is less than required by
these regulations may be used as a building site for a single-family dwelling.
   (3)   Side yard requirements. Except as set forth in subsection (1) of this
section, where a lot has a width less than the width required in the district
in which it is located, then the zoning administrator shall be authorized to
reduce the side yard requirements for such lot; provided, however, no side yard
shall be less than five feet wide.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 1.7)
Sec. 14-9. - Exception to height regulations.
   The height regulations stipulated elsewhere in this chapter may be exceeded
only where such structures are not intended for human occupancy, such as church
spires, belfries, cupolas, domes, monuments, public water towers, observation
towers and transmission towers, chimneys, smokestacks, conveyors, flagpoles,
radio towers, masts, aerials, grain elevators, and similar structures which
exceed the height limitations of this chapter.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 1.8)
Sec. 14-10. - Statutory zoning vested right provisions; site specific vesting
plan.
   This section is intended to implement the provisions of G.S. 160D-108 and
160D-108.1 pursuant to which a statutory zoning vested right is established
upon the approval of a site specific vesting plan approved after November 4,
1991. For the purpose of this section, a site specific vesting plan is defined
as a plan of land development submitted to the county for purposes of obtaining
a special use permit or land use permit, following the applicable procedures
for each process established in the LDC. Notwithstanding the foregoing, neither
a variance, a sketch plan nor any other document that fails to describe with
reasonable certainty the type and intensity of use for a specific parcel or
parcels of property shall constitute a site specific vesting plan. A zoning
vested right is defined as a right pursuant to G.S. 160D-108 and 160D-108.1 to
undertake and complete the development and use of property under the terms and
conditions of an approved site specific vesting plan.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 1.9; Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-11. - Establishment of a zoning vested right.
   (a)   A zoning vested right shall be deemed established upon the valid
approval, or conditional approval, by the board of commissioners, planning
board, board of adjustment, or planning director, as applicable, of a site
specific vesting plan. A zoning vested right is defined as a right pursuant to
G.S. 160D-108 and 160D-108.1 to undertake and complete the development and use
of property under the terms and conditions of an approved site specific vesting
plan.
   (b)   The approving authority may approve a site specific vesting plan upon
such terms and conditions as may reasonably be necessary to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare.
   (c)   Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of this section, approval of a
site specific vesting plan with a condition that a variance be obtained, shall
not confer a zoning vested right unless the necessary variance has been
obtained.
   (d)   A site specific vesting plan shall be deemed approved upon the
effective date of the approval authority's action or ordinance relating
thereto.
    (e)   The establishment of a zoning vested right shall not preclude the
application of any overlay zoning that imposes additional requirements but does
not affect the allowable type or density of use, or ordinances or regulations
that are general in nature and are applicable to all property subject to land
use regulation by the county, including, but not limited to, building, fire,
plumbing, electrical and mechanical codes. Otherwise applicable new or amended
regulations shall become effective with respect to property that is subject to
a site specific vesting plan upon the expiration or termination of the vested
right in accordance with this section.
   (f)   A zoning vested right is not a personal right, but shall attach to and
run with the applicable property. After approval of a site specific vesting
plan, all successors to the landowner that established the zoning vested right
shall be entitled to exercise such right while applicable.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 1.9.1; Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-12. - Approval procedures and approval authority.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided for in this section, an application for
site specific vesting plan approval shall be processed in accordance with the
procedures established by ordinance and shall be considered by the designated
approval authority for the specific type of zoning or land use permit or
approval for which application is made.
   (b)   In order to obtain a zoning vested right, the applicant must request
in writing at the time of application that the application be considered and
acted on by the board of commissioners following notice and a public hearing as
provided in G.S. 160A-108.1.
   (c)   In order for a zoning vested right to be established upon approval of
a site specific vesting plan, the applicant must indicate at the time of
application, on a form to be provided by the county, that a zoning vested right
is being sought.
   (d)   Each map, plat, site plan or other document evidencing a site specific
vesting plan shall contain the following notation:
      "Approval of this plan established a zoning vested right under G.S. 153A-
344.1. Unless terminated at an earlier date, the zoning vested right shall be
valid until two years from date of issuance."
   (e)   Following approval or conditional approval of a site specific vesting
plan, nothing in this chapter shall exempt such a plan from subsequent reviews
and
approvals to ensure compliance with the terms and conditions of the original
approval, provided that such reviews and approvals are not inconsistent with
the original approval.
   (f)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the revocation of the original
approval or other remedies for failure to comply with applicable terms and
conditions of the approval or the development ordinance.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 1.9.2; Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-13. - Duration.
   (a)   A zoning right that has been vested as provided in section
14-11 shall remain vested for a period of two years unless specifically and
unambiguously provided otherwise pursuant to subsection (b) of this section.
This vesting shall not be extended by any amendments or modifications to a site
specific vesting plan unless expressly provided by the approval authority at
the time the amendment or modification is approved.
   (b)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this section, the
approval authority may provide that rights shall be vested for a period
exceeding two years but not exceeding five years where warranted in light of
all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the size of the
development, the level of investment, the need for or desirability of the
development, economic cycles, and market conditions. These determinations shall
be in the specified decision-making authority for each permit type at the time
the site specific vesting plan is approved.
   (c)   Upon issuance of a building permit, the expiration provisions of G.S.
160D- 1111 and the revocation provisions of G.S. 160D-1115 shall apply.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 1.9.3; Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-14. - Termination.
   A zoning right that has been vested as provided in section
14-11 shall terminate:
   (1)   At the end of the application vesting period with respect to buildings
and uses for which no valid building permit application has been filed;
   (2)   With the written consent of the affected landowner;
   (3)   Upon finding by the board of commissioners, by ordinance after notice
and a public hearing, that natural or manmade hazards on or in the immediate
vicinity of the property, if uncorrected, would pose a serious threat to the
public health, safety, and welfare if the project were to proceed as
contemplated in the approved site specific vesting plan;
   (4)   Upon payment to the affected landowner of compensation for all costs,
expenses, and other losses incurred by the landowner, including, but not
limited to, all fees paid in consideration of financing, and all architectural,
engineering, planning, marketing, legal, and other consultant's fees incurred
after approval by the county, together with interest thereon at the legal rate
until paid. Compensation shall not include any diminution in the value of the
property which is caused by such action;
   (5)   Upon findings by the board of commissioners, by ordinance after notice
and a public hearing, that the landowner or his representative intentionally
supplied inaccurate information or made material misrepresentations which made
a difference in the approval by the approval authority of the site specific
vesting plan; or
   (6)   Upon the enactment or promulgation of a state or federal law or
regulation that precludes development as contemplated in the site specific
vesting plan, in which case the approval authority may modify the affected
provisions, upon a finding that the change in state or federal law has a
fundamental effect on the plan, by ordinance after notice and public hearing.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 1.9.4; Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-15. - Limitations.
   Nothing in this chapter is intended or shall be deemed to create any zoning
vested right other than those established pursuant to G.S. 160D-108 and 160D-
108.1.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 1.9.5; Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-16. - Repeal.
   If G.S. 160D-108 and 160D-108.1 are repealed, this chapter shall be deemed
repealed and the provisions of this chapter no longer effective.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 1.9.6; Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-17. - Fees.
   Reasonable fees sufficient to cover the costs of administration, inspection,
publication of notices, and similar matters may be charged to applicants for
land use permits, special use permits, zoning amendments, appeals, variances
and special exceptions, and other administrative relief. The amount of such
fees shall be fixed by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 1.10)
Secs. 14-18—14-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ZONING DISTRICTS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY [11] 
   (11) Editor's note—Amend. of 12-06-2010 amended Div. 1 in its entirety and
enacted similar provisions as set out herein. The former Div. 1 derived from
Ord. of 7-10-2000, §§ 3.1, 3.2.
   Sec.
14-51. - Establishment.
   Sec.
14-52. - Zoning atlas.
   Secs. 14-53—14-70. - Reserved.
Sec. 14-51. - Establishment.
   The county and its planning jurisdiction are divided into zoning districts
as enumerated in this section. The use regulations and intensity regulation
applicable for such zoning districts are designated in division 2 of this
article.
   (1)   Agricultural-residential district (AR). The agricultural-residential
district is intended to encourage the continuance of agricultural uses as well
as to ensure that residential development of appropriate intensities that are
consonant with the suitability of land, availability of public services,
accessibility to major activity centers, and transportation systems, and that
are compatible with surrounding development, will occur at appropriate density
to provide a healthful environment.
   (2)   Resort-residential district (RR). The resort residential district is
intended to provide for specific residential needs as well as to ensure that
specific residential development of appropriate intensities consonant with the
suitability of land and transportation systems, and that are compatible with
surrounding development, will occur at sufficient density to provide a
healthful environment.
   (3)   Residential-mobile home park district (R-MHP). The residential-mobile
home park district is intended to provide for affordable residential
development that addresses residential needs as well as to ensure that specific
residential development of appropriate intensities consonant with the
suitability of land and transportation systems, and that are compatible with
surrounding development, will occur at sufficient density to provide a
healthful environment.
   (4)   Office/institutional district (OI). The office and institutional
district is intended to provide for office, institutional, educational,
research, public service uses and their necessary support functions, while
minimizing conflicts with adjoining land uses.
   (5)   Neighborhood business district (NB). The neighborhood business
district is intended to provide for the development of commercial and service
centers that serve the daily commercial needs, are accessible by residents from
the immediate neighborhood, and are of such a nature so as to minimize
conflicts with surrounding residential areas.
   (6)   Community business district (CB). The community business district is
intended to provide for the development of commercial and service centers that
serve communities' commercial needs, are accessible by residents from the
community and surrounding neighborhoods, and are of such a nature so as to
minimize conflicts with surrounding residential areas.
   (7)   General business district (GB). The general business district is
intended to provide for the development of commercial and service centers that
serve community, countywide, or regional commercial needs, are accessible by
residents from surrounding neighborhoods, and are of such a nature so as to
minimize conflicts with surrounding residential areas.
   (8)   Industrial-1 district (I-1). The industrial-1 district is intended to
provide public and private uses of a wholesale, distribution, warehousing,
fabrication, and processing of a light industrial production nature.
   (9)   Industrial-2 district (I-2). The industrial-2 district is intended to
provide public and private uses of a wholesale, distribution, warehousing,
fabrication, and processing of a heavy industrial production nature.
   (10)   Overlaying districts. It is the intent of this chapter to provide for
an airport height hazard district (AHH), an environmentally sensitive area
district (ES), an interstate highway interchange district (IHI), a water supply
watershed protection district (WSW), municipal transition district (MTD), and
other districts which shall overlay the zoning districts enumerated in
subsections (1) through (9) of this section, and which shall provide for
special review of development with such overlay districts in accordance with
the intents, procedures, and standards established for the zoning district.
   (11)   Conditional zoning districts (CZ). For the zoning districts described
in this section, parallel conditional zoning districts are authorized for
establishment, pursuant to G.S. 160D-703. To be created, a conditional zoning
district must be proposed by all of the property owners of the applicable land
and customized to the context of a particular development project or land use
on a particular site. Each conditional zoning district includes one or more
conditions of approval that help the project conform to the county’s adopted
ordinances and plans, and mitigate the impacts reasonably expected to be
generated by the development or use of the site.
(Amend. of 12-06-2010; Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-52. - Zoning atlas.
   The boundaries of the zoning districts enumerated in section
14-51 are shown on the official zoning atlas which with all notations,
references, and other information shown on the zoning atlas, shall be as much a
part of this article as if fully described in this section.
   (a)   Official zoning atlas. The official zoning atlas shall be the "digital
maps" maintained by the county geographic information systems (GIS) department
in accordance with the resolution adopted by the board of county commissioners
on May 6, 1996.
   (b)   Authentication. The official zoning atlas shall be authenticated by
the planning director. Changes to the official zoning atlas other than those
authorized by duly approved amendments shall be prohibited. The official zoning
atlas is the final and sole authority as to the zoning status of land within
the county's planning jurisdiction. When a discrepancy or uncertainty exists of
the zoning district or its boundary, the planning director shall review county
records and the rules below to make a determination.
   (c)   District boundaries. Where uncertainty exists with respect to the
boundaries of any of the districts enumerated in section
14-51 as shown on the official zoning atlas, the planning director shall use
the following rules:
   (1)   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the
centerlines of streets or highways, street lines or railroad right-of-way lines
or such lines extended; such centerlines, street lines, or railroad right-of-
way lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
   (2)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately
follow lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
   (3)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are approximately
parallel to the centerlines of streets, highways, or railroads, or rights-of-
way of same, such district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel
thereto and at such distance therefrom as indicated on the zoning maps. If no
distance is given, such dimension shall be determined by use of the scale shown
on such zoning maps.
   (d)   Amendment entries. Amendments to the official zoning atlas shall be
displayed along with maps and descriptions accompanying enacted amendments in
the planning department, until such time as such amendments are entered on the
official zoning atlas.
(Amend. of 12-06-2010)
Secs. 14-53—14-70. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - DISTRICT REGULATIONS
   Sec.
14-71. - Intent.
   Sec.
14-72. - Establishment.
   Sec.
14-73. - Applicability.
   Sec.
14-74. - Reserved.
   Sec.
14-75. - Agricultural-residential district (AR).
   Sec.
14-76. - Resort residential district (RR).
   Sec.
14-77. - Residential-mobile home park district (R-MHP).
   Sec.
14-78. - Office and institutional district (OI).
   Sec.
14-79. - Neighborhood business district (NB).
   Sec.
14-80. - Community business district (CB).
   Sec.
14-81. - General business district (GB).
   Sec.
14-82. - Industrial-1 district (I-1).
   Sec.
14-83. - Industrial-2 district (I-2).
   Secs. 14-84—14-88. - Reserved.
   Sec.
14-89. - Table of permitted residential uses.
   Sec.
14-90. - Table of business, commercial, and industrial uses.
   Secs. 14-91—14-100. - Reserved.
Sec. 14-71. - Intent.
   It is the intent of this division to provide for patterns of land use in
accordance with the comprehensive plan and other development policies of the
board of commissioners, and to promote the organization of land uses so as to
minimize conflicts between different types of land use activities while
recognizing the county's need for such activities.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 4.1; Amend. of 12-06-2010)
Sec. 14-72. - Establishment.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided in this division, regulations
governing the use of land and placement of structures within the various zoning
districts and classifications of planned developments are established as
described in this division.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 4.2)
Sec. 14-73. - Applicability.
   Uses of land or structures which are not expressly listed in this division
as permitted principal uses, permitted accessory uses, or permitted special use
in a zoning district or planned development are prohibited uses and shall not
be subject to these regulations, as provided by General Statutes.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 4.3)
Sec. 14-74. - Reserved.
   Editor's note—Amend. of 12-06-2010 deleted §
14-74, which pertained to minimum street frontage width and derived from Ord.
of 7-10-2000, § 4.3.1.
Sec. 14-75. - Agricultural-residential district (AR).
   (a)   Intent. The agricultural-residential district (AR) is intended to
encourage the continuance of agricultural uses as well as to ensure that
residential development will occur at sufficient densities to provide for a
range of housing opportunities throughout the county. Further, it is the
intention of the regulations of this district to ensure that residential
development having access and connecting to public water and sanitary sewer
systems will occur within a healthful environment.
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted as a principal use:
   (1)   Single-family, or individual modular homes that utilize:
      a.   No mobile home with a manufactured date prior to 1976 can be set up
as a residence unless it is already legally set up as a residence within
Johnston County.
      b.   All mobile/manufactured homes that are moved to a parcel or lot
within the AR district shall meet the following standards:
   (2)   Individual mobile/manufactured homes shall be based on the density
established in subsection (b)(1) and meet; the following conditions:
      a.   No mobile home that does not meet the definition for a mobile home
in this chapter can be set up as a residence unless it is already legally set
up as a residence within Johnston County.
      b.   All mobile/manufactured homes that are moved to a parcel or lot
within the AR district shall meet the following standards:
         1.   Each mobile/manufactured home must have exterior siding that is
either painted or stained wood such as board and batten, or board-on-board,
masonite, simulated stucco, residential grade aluminum, or vinyl lap siding.
All siding shall be in good condition, complete, not damaged or loose;
         2.   Each mobile/manufactured home shall either have a brick curtain
wall or have ABS or PVC plastic color skirting with interlocking edges
(keylocked) installed around the perimeter of the home. Skirting shall be
attractive and in good condition and shall be laid-up in an attractive,
workmanlike manner. All mobile/manufactured doublewide homes located within a
major subdivision shall have a permanent masonry foundation;
         3.   Each mobile/manufactured home having a painted exterior, shall
have the exterior paint in good condition, not peeling or any rust showing
through;
         4.   Each mobile/manufactured home shall have all windows and doors
intact and in working condition;
         5.   Each mobile/manufactured home shall have in place permanent
steps, meeting the state building code; and
         6.   All repairs made to the exterior of the mobile/manufactured home
shall be made to be consistent with the original intent or integrity of the
mobile/manufactured home when that mobile/manufactured home was built. For
example, if repairs are made to the siding, material as close to, or consistent
with, the original siding shall be used.
      c.   All conditions listed in subsection b. shall be complied with before
a certificate of occupancy and compliance is issued for the mobile/manufactured
home.
      d.   All single-wide mobile homes and single-wide manufactured homes,
regardless of availability of public utilities, shall have a minimum lot size
of one acre.
   A certificate of occupancy for an individual mobile/manufactured home may be
issued if all required work, other than the completion of the foundation
skirting and permanent steps, is completed, provided that a certificate of
completion is issued within 90 days of the issuance of the certificate of
occupancy. If no certificate of completion is issued within 90 days, the
certificate of occupancy shall be void.
   (3)   Churches and their customary related uses, including cemeteries,
provided that all buildings shall be set back at least 20 feet from any
property lines.
   (4)   Colleges, universities, public elementary and secondary schools, and
private schools having curricula approximately the same as ordinarily given in
public schools.
   (5)   Golf courses, parks, playgrounds, community centers, libraries,
swimming pools and similar recreational uses on property that is:
      a.   Owned by a federal, state, and/or local government; or
      b.   Located within an approved subdivision and the property is owned and
operated by a homeowners' association, management company, and/or the developer
and was approved as a part of the subdivision approval or as a part of an A-
R special use district.
   Accessory recreation uses and facilities (such as play toy, basketball
court, tennis court, and similar that are usual and typical in a residential
neighborhood) that are intended to be used primarily by the residents of the
property are permitted with residential land uses. Recreational activities that
includes added parking, lighting, bleachers or viewing stands, charges fees,
and/or provide concessions shall be presumed to not be accessory to a
residence.
   Any other park, playground, or recreation facility that includes anything
other than passive recreation (such as walking trails, picnic tables, open
space, and similar) must have a special use permit.
   Any stand-alone recreation facility (not otherwise approved in parts 5, 5a,
or 5b above) that charges admission; membership fees; and/or has any sales,
concessions, etc. is not permitted in the A-R district.
   (6)   Public safety facilities such as fire and police stations, rescue
headquarters, ambulance service, and civil defense centers.
   (7)   Accessory buildings or structures, provided such buildings or
structures shall be not less than ten feet from any interior property line, and
meet the street setback requirements of subsection (d). Singlewide mobile homes
will not be permitted to be used for storage (commercial or noncommercial
storage). Temporary storage containers or PODs shall be allowed for a 30-day
period, with the possibility of a 30-day extension by planning staff for
hardship cases and no more than twice during a calendar year.
   (8)   Home occupations.
   (9)   Agri-tourism uses or enterprises in support of any existing bona fide
farming operation as defined in section
14-7. Agri-tourism uses may include, but are not limited to, corn mazes,
petting zoo related to farm animals, hayrides, and educational programs.
Accessory uses to the agri-tourism enterprise may include refreshments and
concessions being served, entertainment on a scale not to exceed intent of
other districts under this article, sale of farm or agricultural related
products not produced on site.
      a.   For accessory type uses referred to above, a site plan will be
submitted for approval by the planning and zoning director that takes into
account ingress and egress, parking, hours of operations, signage, and
lighting. See article V, site plans.
      b.   Any agri-tourism enterprise and accessory uses to agri-tourism
enterprise shall adhere to setback requirements listed in this section.
      c.   All agri-tourism type uses and accessory uses to agri-tourism shall
be temporary, unless otherwise permitted by the planning and zoning director.
   (10)   Telephone utility facilities including transformer and switching
stations, telephone exchanges; public utilities (water and sewer stations)
including: water, wastewater, and reclaimed water meter vaults (above and below
ground); water and reclaimed water booster pump stations; water and reclaimed
water regulatory valve stations; wastewater pump stations; chemical feed
stations; and supporting equipment including standby power facilities,
electrical equipment, and SCADA equipment including antennas. The following
items shall apply to such facilities:
      a.   Approved site plan from planning and zoning director.
      b.   Such facilities are essential to services of the area.
      c.   All buildings shall be set back at least 20 feet from all property
lines.
      d.   Shall be landscaped as to blend in with the surrounding community.
      e.   Shall be nonstaff facilities only.
   (11)   Any commercial vehicle(s) being housed at a residence and driven by
an occupant of the residence for the purpose of serving as the occupant's
primary transportation to a business located off site shall be limited based on
the following guidelines:
      a.   If the business associated with the commercial vehicle is off site
and provides reasonable storage and after-hours parking of the associated
commercial vehicles, then no commercial vehicle is allowed on the residential
property.
      b.   On internal subdivision streets, public or private, and dead-end
public or private roads, only one commercial vehicle is allowed unless
subsection a. above applies and/or restrictive covenants are in place
restricting the storage of commercial vehicles. The vehicle is required to be
setback 70 feet from the front property line and 50 feet from the interior
property lines.
      c.   On all other streets and roads, any more than three commercial
vehicles is required a special use permit with the vehicle(s) setback 250 feet
from the front property line and 200 feet from the interior property lines.
   This regulation shall not be interpreted to prohibit commercial vehicles
from loading or unloading within a reasonable time in any residential district.
   This is not to include any such commercial vehicles used, manufactured, or
designed for hazardous waste which are prohibited from residential districts.
   This is not intended to allow the maintenance, as in changing of hazardous
fluids and washing of contamination onto the ground, of the commercial vehicle
parked on a residential lot.
   Note: Any commercial vehicle(s) associated with a commercial business
operation, not specifically identified as a permitted use in this section,
which is not a legally grandfathered nonconforming use, is not allowed unless a
special use rezoning is granted by the county.
   (12)   Two-family dwellings (duplex).
      a.   A duplex dwelling is counted as two units in density calculations
and is permitted based on the density allowance in subsection (b)(1).
      b.   A duplex dwelling is established on a common lot with no zero lot
line separating the two living areas.
   (13)   Two-unit townhouse.
      a.   A zero lot line along the common wall can be established creating a
two-unit townhouse only prior to construction of the structure to ensure that
it meets appropriate building and fire code standards, as established by the NC
Residential Building Code. Exception will be given to those units originally
constructed to townhouse standards.
      b.   A zero lot line can be established as long as the opposing lot line
is twice the setback required in subsection (d).
      c.   Such lots created must meet all lot design standards, subdivision
requirements, and subdivision review procedures as set forth in this Code.
Additionally, each lot created must be able to support its own separate septic
system.
      d.   A plat must be submitted to the planning board for review and
approval in accordance with article III of this Code. Such plat must include a
site plan showing the townhome location, septic system, driveways, and
setbacks.
      e.   For clarification, a duplex as described in this chapter cannot be
converted into a two-unit town home with the establishment of a zero lot line
unless it was initially constructed to townhouse standards.
      f.   An agreement must be in place and recorded in the office of the
register of deeds to ensure proper maintenance of the structure.
   (14)   One junked motor vehicle.
   (15)   Up to 200 square feet of junk.
   (16)   Storage buildings provided such buildings meet the following
criteria:
      a.   Maximum size of 2,000 square feet.
      b.   Shall not be located within a major subdivision.
      c.   Shall be for personal storage and use as associated with the other
permitted uses in the Agricultural Residential Zoning District with no
commercial, industrial or business storage or associated uses.
      d.   Setbacks shall be 70 feet from an arterial or collector street, 50
feet from a local street, and 20 feet from interior lot lines.
   (c)   Conditional zoning districts. For the agricultural-residential
district, a parallel conditional zoning district is authorized for
establishment, pursuant to G.S. 160D-703.
   (1)   Utilities and public works facilities such as water and wastewater
treatment plants; sludge treatment, handling, and disposal facilities; ground
and elevated water tanks; power generating plants; electrical transformer and
switching stations; transmission lines; and solid waste collection and transfer
stations.
      a.   Such facilities are essential to the service of the area;
      b.   In the case of transformer stations, pumping stations, water towers,
and telephone exchange, no vehicles or materials shall be stored on the
premises, and no offices shall be permitted;
      c.   All buildings shall be set back at least 20 feet from all property
lines and shall be designed and landscaped with a buffer strip in such a way as
to blend in with the surrounding area; and
      d.   All dangerous apparatus shall be enclosed by a screen fence or wall
at least eight feet in height.
   (2)   Rest and convalescent homes. Rest and convalescent homes not used
primarily for the treatment of contagious diseases, alcoholics, drug addicts,
or psychotics.
   (3)   Farm enterprises. Farm-type enterprises when not considered as being
part of bona fide farms such as plant nurseries, commercial greenhouses, fruit
or vegetable packing sheds, retail sale of products grown on premises,
hatcheries, tobacco storage for sales, livestock sales, and similar commercial
and processing activities, provided:
      a.   Any farm-type enterprise (building or structure) shall be at least
100 feet from any existing residence on adjacent tracts of land and shall be at
least 50 feet from any exterior property line adjacent to tracts of residential
land.
      b.   Otherwise, when adjacent to nonresidential lots, the minimum
required setbacks of subsection (d) of this section shall apply.
   (4)   Seasonal retail sales stands. Temporary stands for seasonal retail
sales may be located in the front yard and shall be located at least 40 feet
from the edge of the right-of-way of a street.
   (5)   Community center.
   (6)   Commercial kennels.
   (7)   Day care center.
   (8)   Group home facility.
   (9)   Migrant housing dormitories.
   (10)   Radio/TV towers.
   (11)   Skeet, trap and rifle clubs.
   (12)   Subdivisions that request residential sewer service of up to 1.5
dwelling units per acre that lie within the Outlying Residential Sewer Service
Area, and are contiguous or immediately adjacent to existing residential
development with public sewer service, and must be able to be served by
construction of new gravity lines (no new pump station required) which will be
tributary to existing sewer infrastructure.
   (d)   Minimum building setback requirements. 
   (1)   The minimum building setback from a property or right-of-way line for
a one dwelling unit per acre development shall be as follows:
      a.   From any arterial or collector street, 70 feet.
      b.   From any local street not in a major subdivision, 50 feet.
      c.   From any local street in a major subdivision, 25 feet.
      d.   From any interior lot line, ten feet.
      e.   From any access easement, 15 feet.
   The 70-foot setback in subsection (d)(1)a. is derived from the current
application of setbacks (60-foot buffer area plus ten-foot building setback
from the buffer line).
   NOTE: A "zero lot line" is allowed whereby a structure is allowed with no
setback from one interior lot line as long as the minimum building setback for
the corresponding opposite interior lot line is a minimum of 20 feet.
   (2)   The minimum building setback from a property or right-of-way line for
a 1.5 dwelling unit per acre development shall be as follows:
      a.   From any arterial or collector street, 70 feet.
      b.   From any local street not in a major subdivision, 50 feet.
      c.   From any local street in a major subdivision, 20 feet.
      d.   From any interior lot line, five feet.
      e.   From any access easement, 15 feet.
   NOTE: A "zero lot line" is allowed whereby a structure is allowed with no
setback from one interior lot line as long as the minimum building setback for
the corresponding opposite interior lot line is a minimum of ten feet.
   (3)   Drainage and utilities easements within major subdivisions. 
      a.   Drainage and public utility easement ten feet in width on the lot
side and along the entire length of the road right of way.
      b.   Drainage and public utility easement seven and one-half feet in
width or width of required minimum setback as described in subsections (1) and
(2), whichever is less restrictive, along all interior property lines and
exterior boundary lines.
   (e)   Maximum building height requirements. The maximum building height for
residential structures shall be 40 feet.
   (f)   Provision of common open space or recreation area requirements. All
residential developments shall provide or dedicate common open space or
recreation areas suitable for the residents' common passive or active
recreational uses or make a payment in lieu of provision or dedication. Design
criteria can be found in the design manual.
   (g)   Minimum common open space or recreation area. Where common open space
or recreational area must be provided or dedicated as part of a residential
development, its total land area shall be at least 15 percent of the total
gross land area of the development. Where amenities are proposed, a reduction
in the required minimum acreage may be approved by the planning board. For
subdivisions with less then two acres of open space, the planning board shall
determine if the location, design, use, and area provide a benefit to the
community, require revision, or proposal of fee-in-lieu.
   The required open space shall be contiguous, unless it is determined by the
planning board that the required open space can be split and located at
different places in a subdivision. Wherever possible, open space and recreation
areas should be located as to abut existing open space in adjacent developments
or phases. If a proposed subdivision contains wetlands and/or riparian or
stream buffer areas, or overhead electric utility easements, they must be
designated as common open space. However, these areas will not count toward the
amount of required open space. No off-site septic areas for the benefit of
residential lots can be included within the open space.
   Any proposed reduction or change involving previously recorded open space
must be approved by the planning board. The applicant must provide sufficient
information on why the change is requested and why no other alternative exists.
   (h)   Method of provision or dedication. Land provided or dedicated for
common open space or recreation purposes shall be designated on a final plat
duly recorded with the county register of deeds. Amenities shall be designated
on the final plat and shall be specific as to type of amenity/use. Design
criteria can be found in the design manual. Such common open space land shall
be dedicated or deeded to an appropriate public body upon their acceptance,
land trust, nonprofit, or for-profit organization established for the purpose
of land conservation or recreational purposes; or create a neighborhood or
homeowner's association for the continuing maintenance and control of common
open space or recreation area; or, held by the owner for the continuing
maintenance and control of common open space or recreation area, subject to a
binding agreement with financial surety for such maintenance.
   (i)   Payments in lieu of provision or dedication. In lieu of providing or
dedicating common open space or recreation area required pursuant to this
section, a developer of a subdivision or planned development may choose to make
a payment to the county. As noted in subsection (g), if the required open space
to be provided is less than two acres the planning board shall determine if
fee-in-lieu shall be required. The county shall use such payment only for the
acquisition of open space, recreation, or park sites to serve more than one
subdivision or development within the immediate area. The amount of the payment
shall be the product of the total number of dwelling units recorded multiplied
by the fee established in the county's annual schedule of fees. The developer
shall make the payment before approval of a final plat, however, the planning
director may allow phasing of payments consistent with the approved phasing of
the subdivision.
   The developer has the option to request a reduction of the required minimum
common open space to no less than 10 percent of the total gross land area of
the development and pay a prorated payment in lieu of dedication for the
balance. The design criteria outlined in this chapter, with the exception of
the percentage requirement, as well as those detailed in the Johnston County
Design Manual shall be met in order to qualify for the prorated amount. The
planning board shall determine that the provided open space is designed to meet
the criteria outlined in this chapter and the Johnston County Design Manual
prior to prorating the amount.
   (j)   Access to open space. All open space must be pedestrian accessible.
Open space not contiguous to a proposed subdivision street must have a minimum
of a 20-foot fee-simple access.
   (k)   Alternative energy systems. Provisions of sections
14-115 through
14-120 shall apply.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 4.4.1; Ord. of 11-13-2000, § 4.4.1; Ord. of 2-12-2001, §§
4.4.1.3, 4.4.1.6.1; Ord. of 7-9-2001; Amend. of 5-12-2003(1); Amend. of 8-11-
2003; Amend. of 2-9-2004; Amend. of 7-12-2004, §§ A), B); Ord. of 12-12-2005;
Amend. of 12-12-2005(1); Amend. of 5-1-2006(1); Ord. of 12-4-2006; Amend. of 2-
5-2007(1); Amend. of 8-6-2007; Amend. of 10-1-2007; Amend. of 6-2-2008(3);
Amend. of 8-3-2009; Amend. of 1-4-2010(1); Amend. of 2-3-2010(1); Amend. of 1-
3-2011; Amend. of 2-7-2011; Amend. of 9-6-2011; Amend. of 7-1-2013; Amend. of
2-3-2014; Amend. of 11-7-2016; Amend. of 3-5-2018; Amend. of 3-4-2019; Amend.
of 8-3-2020; Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-76. - Resort residential district (RR).
   (a)   Intent. The regulations of the resort residential district are
intended to ensure that the principal use of the land is for low-to-medium
density seasonal residential-recreational purposes.
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted as a principal
use in the resort residential district:
   (1)   Single-family conventionally constructed dwellings, including
semidetached dwellings or resort homes intended to be used as a seasonal or
recreational occupancy.
   (2)   Accessory buildings or structures.
   (c)   Site plan required. The uses listed in this subsection are permitted
in a resort residential district, and may be established only after the
approval of a detailed site plan, consistent with the design standards of this
article is presented to and approved by the planning director:
   (1)   Campgrounds intended to be used for recreational purposes only for
tents, campers, travel trailers and recreational vehicles, provided such site
is no less than two acres in area. Furthermore, each proposed facility shall be
subject to approval of the county health department.
   (2)   Marinas.
   (3)   Boat service stations.
   (4)   Restaurants, accessory to a principal use.
   (5)   Retail establishments, such as novelty shops, camping and fishing
supply stores, convenience shops, and similar supportive establishments that
are directly related to rural recreation activities.
   (6)   Saddle, hunting, fishing, boating and other clubs directly related to
rural recreational activities.
   (d)   Minimum land area. The following minimum land areas shall be required
in the resort residential district:
   (1)   The minimum land area for a single-family lot with an individual well
and septic tank shall be no less than 40,000 square feet.
   (2)   The minimum land area for a single-family lot connected to a public
water supply system shall be no less than 30,000 square feet.
   (e)   Minimum lot width. The minimum lot width in a resort residential
district shall be 100 feet.
   (f)   Minimum building setback requirements. The minimum building setback
requirements in the resort residential district shall be as follows:
   (1)   From any arterial or collector street, 60 feet.
   (2)   From any local street not in the resort residential project, 50 feet.
   (3)   From any local street within the resort residential project, ten feet.
   (4)   From any interior lot line, 20 feet.
   (5)   From any access easement, 15 feet.
   (g)   Maximum building height requirements. The maximum building height in a
resort residential district shall be 40 feet.
   (h)   Alternative energy systems. Provisions of sections
14-115 through
14-119 shall apply.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 4.4.2; Ord. of 7-9-2001, Amend. of 7-12-2004, § B; Amend.
of 9-6-2011)
Sec. 14-77. - Residential-mobile home park district (R-MHP).
   (a)   Intent. The regulations of the residential-mobile home park district
shall govern the placement and establishment of every new mobile home park and
the alteration or expansion of existing mobile home parks lying within the
planning jurisdiction of the county. Mobile home parks shall be permitted only
in conformance with the regulations of this chapter and only on lands properly
zoned to the MHP district.
   (b)   Classification. Mobile homes are classified into two categories as
follows:
   (1)   Class A. Manufactured housing units which meet both state and U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development Mobile Home Construction Standards,
and are in a subdivision of lots for sale.
   (2)   Class B. Manufactured housing units which meet state and U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development Mobile Home Construction Standards,
and are in a mobile home park with leased or rental spaces.
   (c)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Automobile, abandoned, means a motor vehicle which is left on private
property without the consent of the owner, occupant, or lessee of the property.
   Manufactured home means a portable manufactured housing unit, over 32 feet
in length and over eight feet in width, designed for transportation on its own
chassis and placement on a temporary or permanent foundation. The term shall
also include a doublewide housing unit which is two or more portable
manufactured housing units, over 32 feet in length and eight feet in width,
designed for transportation on their own chassis, which connect on site for
placement on a temporary or permanent foundation.
   Mobile home means a structure that:
   (1)   Consists of a single unit substantially assembled at the factory or of
two (doublewide) or three (triplewide) principal components totally assembled
at the factory and joined together at the site;
   (2)   Is designed so that the total structure (or in the case of a
doublewide or triplewide, each component thereof) can be transported on its own
chassis;
   (3)   Is over 32 feet long and over eight feet wide;
   (4)   Is designed to be used as a dwelling and provides complete,
independent living facilities for one family, including permanent provisions
for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation;
   (5)   Is actually being used, or is held ready for use, as a dwelling; and
   (6)   Is not permanently attached to a foundation. A structure that is
otherwise defined in this definition as a mobile home is permanently attached
to its foundation if:
      a.   The foundation was constructed in such a way or at such expense as
to make it unlikely that the mobile home placed upon it will later be removed;
or
      b.   The mobile home cannot be removed from the foundation without great
expense or severe damage to the mobile home.
   Mobile home lot means a piece of land within a mobile home park whose
boundaries are delineated in accordance with the requirements of the article
and that is designed and improved in accordance with the requirements of the
article to accommodate one mobile home.
   Mobile home park major collector street means any mobile home park street or
road intersecting or providing direct access to a state-maintained road, or a
street that regularly serves 40 percent of the residents of the park.
   Mobile home park minor collector street means any mobile home park street or
road serving only to provide access to the individual spaces.
   Mobile home space means a plot of land within a mobile home park designed
for the accommodation of a single mobile home in accordance with the
requirements set forth in this article.
   Mobile home stand or pad means that portion of the mobile home space
designed for and used as the area occupied by the mobile home proper.
   Modular or prefabricated construction means construction of prefabricated
units which are fabricated prior to erection or installation in a building or
structure, and may be shipped to their final on-site location. A manufactured
home is considered a mobile home if a title is issued for the home when
manufactured and would be considered personal property. If no title is issued,
the home is considered real property rather than personal property.
   Operator means the person responsible for the operation of a mobile home
park.
   Parking bay means two off-street parking spaces per mobile home space.
   Public or community sewer system means any sewer system serving three or
more connections.
   Public or community water supply system means a water system serving three
or more mobile homes, thereby requiring approval by the state division of
health services.
   Rental mobile homes means mobile homes that are available on a rental or
lease basis.
   Travel trailer means any vehicle, house car, camp car, or any portable or
moveable vehicle on wheels, skids, rollers, or blocks either self-propelled or
propelled by any other means which is used or designed to be used for
residential living, sleeping, commercial, or utility purposes, but not
including those vehicles primarily designed for the transportation of goods.
   Underpinning means metal, vinyl, brick, block, or other approved skirting
material around the mobile home base.
   (d)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted as a principal use in
a residential-mobile home park district:
   (1)   An individual mobile home that utilizes a public water and sewer
system at a maximum density of 1.5 dwelling units per acre (based on the net
usable* land area of the mobile home park; or
   (2)   An individual mobile home that utilizes a public water system and
septic tank at a density of 1.5 dwelling units per acre (based on the net
usable* land area of the mobile home park).
      *Note: Net usable land area excludes floodplains, right-of-ways, wetlands
and riparian buffers.
   (e)   Minimum internal building setback. Where no individual lot lines
internal to the mobile home park exist, each mobile home shall be no closer
than 20 feet from another mobile home.
   (f)   Minimum building setback requirements. The minimum building setback in
a mobile home district shall be as follows:
   (1)   From any arterial or collector street, 60 feet.
   (2)   From any local street not within the mobile home park, 50 feet.
   (3)   From any street within the mobile home park, 20 feet.
   (4)   From any interior lot line, ten feet.
   Accessory buildings may be constructed in the rear yard provided they are no
larger than ten feet by ten feet and no closer than ten feet from any adjoining
lot line.
   (g)   Utility requirements. All mobile home parks shall conform to the
following utility requirements:
   (1)   An accessible adequate, safe supply of water shall be provided in each
mobile home park. When a municipal or county water supply is not available, a
community water supply shall be developed and its supply used exclusively in
accordance with the standards of the state division of health services and the
county environmental health department.
   (2)   Adequate and safe sewage disposal facilities shall be provided in all
mobile home parks. Collection systems and sewage treatment plants complying
with the requirements of the state natural resources and community development
department shall be provided. Plans for sewage collection systems and treatment
facilities shall be submitted to the state natural resources and community
development department and the county environmental health department.
Individual septic tank systems can be considered, if soil, topography, and
groundwater conditions are favorable.
   (3)   All utilities shall be underground.
   (h)   Streets and parking. All mobile home parks shall conform to the
following street and parking requirements:
   (1)   All streets in mobile home parks shall be paved.
   (2)   Maintenance of such streets shall be provided by the owner or operator
of the park, who will be required to post a bond for the first year's
maintenance, amount and terms to be determined by the planning director.
   (3)   Permanent dead-end streets or culs-de-sac shall not exceed 1,000 feet
in length and shall be provided with a turnaround of at least 100 feet in
diameter.
   (4)   New street names or mobile home park names shall not duplicate, or be
similar to, existing street names or mobile home park names in the county. The
mobile home park developer shall be required to provide and erect street name
signs to state standards at all intersections within the mobile home park.
   (5)   Sidewalks, or a paved pedestrian walkway, shall be provided along all
streets within the mobile home park.
   (6)   A minimum of two automobile parking spaces surfaced with an all
weather surface shall be provided adjacent to each mobile home space but shall
not be located within any public right-of-way or within any street in the park.
   (7)   All spaces within a mobile home park shall be serially numbered for
mailing address purposes. These numbers shall be displayed in the front of the
mobile home on the driveway side with four-inch lettering.
   (8)   All streets in the mobile home park shall be adequately illuminated.
The minimum street light shall be a 175-watt mercury vapor approximately 7,000
lumen class, or its equivalent, spaced at intervals of not more than 300 feet
and at each intersection.
   (i)   Recreation areas. All mobile home parks shall provide a play lot of
300 square feet suitable for active play and a 10,000 square foot area for
active or passive recreation, with a minimum area of 10,000 square feet for
every 25 dwelling units.
   (j)   Mobile home park use/appearance requirements. All uses within a mobile
home park shall conform to the following regulations:
   (1)   Abandoned vehicle. No junked or abandoned vehicles shall be allowed.
   (2)   Additions. No living compartment or structure other than a "Florida-
Type" room, or other prefabricated structure, specifically designed for mobile
home use or extension, shall be added to any mobile home. Porches covered with
a roof and open on three sides may be permitted if yard space requirements of
this article are not violated.
   (3)   Administrative office. Within a mobile home park, one mobile home may
be used as an administrative office.
   (4)   Building proportion. The main portion of the building, when viewed
from the front lot line, shall have a building length not exceeding six times
the building width.
   (5)   Chassis and tongue removal. The wheels, towing tongue and
undercarriage of the chassis shall be removed upon final placement of the unit.
   (6)   Evacuation plan. Each mobile home park in a community's floodprone
area shall have an evacuation plan indicating alternate vehicular access and
escape routes. All mobile homes to be placed in floodprone areas shall be
anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by providing over-
the-top ties at each of the four corners of the mobile home with two additional
ties per side at intermediate locations.
   (7)   Exterior appearance. All mobile homes shall meet the following
standards:
      a.   Each mobile home must have exterior siding that is either painted,
or stained wood such as board and batten, or board-on-board, masonite,
simulated stucco, residential grade aluminum, or vinyl lap siding. All siding
shall be in good condition, complete, not damaged, pierced or loose;
      b.   Each mobile home shall either have a brick curtain wall or have ABS
plastic color skirting with interlocking edges (keylocked) installed around the
perimeter of the home before a certificate of occupancy is issued. Skirting
shall be attractive and in good condition, not pierced, and shall be laid-up in
an attractive, workmanlike manner;
      c.   Each mobile home having a painted exterior, shall have the exterior
paint in good condition, not peeling or any rust showing through;
      d.   All windows and doors shall be intact and in working condition; and
      e.   Permanent steps, meeting the state building code shall be in place.
   (8)   Mailboxes. When more than five rural mailboxes are used for mail
delivery, the approval of the local post office department and the district
highway engineer shall be required.
   (9)   Project identification sign. Mobile home park identification signs
shall not exceed 32 square feet in area and shall not exceed 12 feet in height.
Only indirect, nonflashing lighting shall be used for illumination.
   (10)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be located on at least one side of each
street within the mobile home park.
   (11)   Solid waste. The mobile home park management shall be responsible for
the proper storage, collection, and disposal of solid waste as specified by the
county health department.
   (12)   Resident requirements. All mobile home park residents must be
required to comply with an established set of requirements through contracts,
restrictive covenants, or other valid means. Failure to enforce such
restrictions subjects the property to a revocation of the mobile home park
zoning.
   (k)   Landscape requirements. All mobile home parks shall be landscaped in
accordance with article VI of this chapter. A landscaped buffer strip shall be
provided at all exterior property lines and shall consist of an approved wall,
fence, or a planted strip at least eight feet in width, composed of deciduous
or evergreen trees or a mixture of each, spaced not more than 20 feet apart and
not less than one row of dense shrubs, spaced not more than five feet apart and
five feet in height; after one growing season, which shall be planted and
maintained in a healthy, growing condition by the property owner.
   (l)   Conformance with mobile home park standards. It shall be unlawful for
any person to construct or engage in the construction of any mobile home park
or make any addition or alteration to an existing mobile home park within the
county unless a final plan of the mobile home park has been approved in
accordance with this section. No new mobile home park or mobile home park
addition shall be occupied until a certificate of occupancy has been issued by
the county inspections department. The owners, management, or occupants to whom
a construction permit for a mobile home park is issued shall operate the park
in compliance with this article and shall provide adequate supervision to
maintain the park, its facilities and equipment in good repair and in a clean
and sanitary condition. The county inspections department may, after due
notice, subject to the right of appeal, suspend or revoke the certificate of
occupancy for failure to maintain the park in compliance with the provisions of
this article. The certificate of occupancy may be revoked for a specific
section of a mobile home park which is in violation and occupancy allowed to
continue in portions of the park which are in conformity with the certificate
of occupancy. The county planning, inspections, and health departments may
conduct as many inspections of mobile home parks as are deemed necessary to
ensure the compliance of applicable standards.
   (m)   Certificate of occupancy and compliance. The board of commissioners
will authorize the inspections department to issue a certificate of occupancy
and compliance. A certificate of occupancy must be authorized and issued by the
inspections department prior to occupancy of a mobile home park. Construction
must conform to the approved plan. Note: A certificate of occupancy may be
issued if all required work, other than the completion of the foundation
skirting, is completed, provided that a certificate of completion is issued
within 90 days' of the issuance of the certificate of occupancy. If no
certificate of completion is issued within 90 days, the certificate of
occupancy shall be void.
   (n)   Reserved.
   (o)   Alternative energy systems. Provisions of sections
14-115 through
14-119 shall apply.
(Ord. of 7-11-2000, § 4.4.5; Ord. of 11-13-2000, § 4.4.4; Amend. of 9-6-2011;
Amend. of 3-4- 2019; Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-78. - Office and institutional district (OI).
   (a)   Intent. The regulations of the office and institution district (OI)
are intended to provide for the development of general office uses, educational
and research facilities, public service offices, institutional and their
necessary support functions.
   (b)   Permitted uses. See Sec.
14-90 for table of permitted uses as a principal use in the office and
institutional district.
   (1)   Additional specifications. 
      a.   Accessory uses and structures are permitted when located on the same
lot as the principal use, within the zoned area.
      b.   Open storage shall be prohibited as a principal and/or accessory
use.
   (2)   Alternative energy systems. Provisions of sections
14-121 and
14-122 shall apply.
   (c)   Conditional zoning districts. For the office and institutional
district, a parallel conditional zoning district is authorized for
establishment, pursuant to G.S. 160D-703. See section
14-90 for table of uses as a special use in the office and institutional
special use district. Accessory uses and structures are permitted when located
on the same lot as the principal use, within the zoned area.
   (1)   Additional specifications. 
      a.   Public/private utility facilities. Public works and public and
private facilities such as water and sewage plants, transformer stations,
transmission lines, pumping stations, water towers, and telephone exchanges,
provided:
         (i.)   Such facilities are essential to the service of the area.
         (ii.)   No vehicles or materials shall be stored on the premises, and
no offices shall be permitted.
         (iii.)   All buildings shall be set back at least 20 feet from all
property lines and shall be designed and landscaped with a buffer strip in such
a way as to blend in with the surrounding area.
         (iv.)   All dangerous apparatus shall be enclosed by a screen fence or
wall at least eight feet in height.
   (d)   Minimum building setback requirements. The minimum building setback
shall be as follows in an office and institutional district:
   (1)   From any arterial or collector street right-of-way, 40 feet.
   (2)   From any local street right-of-way, 20 feet.
   (3)   From any interior lot line adjacent to commercial or industrial
zoning, ten feet.
   (4)   From any interior lot line adjacent to residential, 20 feet.
   (5)   From any access easement, 15 feet.
   (e)   Maximum building height requirements. The maximum building height for
the office and institutional district:
   (1)   Adjacent to a residential zoning district shall be 40 feet.
   (2)   Adjacent to a nonresidential zoning district, no height restrictions.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 4.4.5; Ord. of 7-9-2001; Amend. of 3-8-2004; Amend. of 7-
12-2004, § B); Amend. of 12-06-2010; Amend. of 9-6-2011; Amend. of - - )
   Cross reference—Businesses,
ch. 6.
Sec. 14-79. - Neighborhood business district (NB).
   (a)   Intent. The neighborhood business district (NB) is intended to provide
for the development of commercial and service centers that serve the daily
commercial needs, are accessible by residents from the immediate neighborhood,
and are of such a nature so as to minimize conflicts with surrounding
residential areas.
   (b)   Permitted uses. See section
14-90 for table of permitted uses as a principal use in the neighborhood
business district.
   (1)   Additional specifications. 
      a.   Accessory uses and structures are permitted when located on the same
lot as the principal use, within the zoned area.
      b.   Open storage shall be prohibited as a principal and/or accessory
use.
   (2)   Alternative energy systems. Provisions of sections
14-121 and
14-122 shall apply.
   (c)   Conditional zoning district. For the neighborhood business district, a
parallel conditional zoning district is authorized for establishment, pursuant
to G.S. 160D-703. See section
14-90 for table of uses as a special use in the Neighborhood Business Special
Use District.
   (1)   Additional specifications. 
      a.   [When permitted.] Accessory uses and structures are permitted when
located on the same lot as the principal use, within the zoned area.
      b.   [Outdoor storage.] Outdoor storage, as an accessory, must be
enclosed by an eight-foot fence; fencing must be opaque or sufficiently
screened.
      c.   Public/private utility facilities. Public works and public and
private facilities such as water and sewage plants, transformer stations,
transmission lines, pumping stations, water towers, and telephone exchanges,
provided:
         (i.)   Such facilities are essential to the service of the area.
         (ii.)   No vehicles or materials shall be stored on the premises, and
no offices shall be permitted.
         (iii.)   All buildings shall be set back at least 20 feet from all
property lines and shall be designed and landscaped with a buffer strip in such
a way as to blend in with the surrounding area.
         (iv.)   All dangerous apparatus shall be enclosed by a screen fence or
wall at least eight feet in height.
   (d)   Minimum building setback requirements. The minimum building setback
requirements for the neighborhood business district shall be as follows:
   (1)   From any arterial or collector street right-of-way, 40 feet.
   (2)   From any local street right-of-way, 30 feet.
   (3)   From an interior lot line adjacent to commercial or industrial zoning,
ten feet.
   (4)   From any interior lot line adjacent to residential zoning, 20 feet.
   (5)   From any access easement, 15 feet.
   The setback requirement applies to all accessory structures, including
gasoline pumps, underground storage tanks, canopies and other similar
structures.
   (e)   Maximum building height requirement. The maximum height of a building
in the community business district shall be 40 feet.
(Amend. of 12-06-2010)
(Ord. of 7-11-2000, § 4.4.7; Ord. of 7-9-2001; Amend. of 3-8-2004; Amend. of 7-
12-2004, § B); Amend. of 5-1-2006(2); Amend. of 12-06-2010; Amend. of 9-6-2011;
Amend. of - - )
   Cross reference—Businesses,
ch. 6.
Sec. 14-80. - Community business district (CB).
   (a)   Intent. The community business district (CB) is intended to provide
for the development of commercial and service areas that serve the daily
convenience and personal service needs of a surrounding area.
   (b)   Permitted uses. See section
14-90 for table of permitted uses as a principal use in the community business
district.
   (1)   Additional specifications. 
      a.   Accessory uses and structures are permitted when located on the same
lot as the principal use, within the zoned area.
      b.   Open storage shall be prohibited as a principal and/or accessory
use.
   (2)   Alternative energy systems. Provisions of sections
14-121 and
14-122 shall apply.
   (c)   Conditional zoning district. For the community business district, a
parallel conditional zoning district is authorized for establishment, pursuant
to G.S. 160D-703. See section 14-90 for table of uses as a special use in the
community business special use district.
   (1)   Additional specifications. 
      a.   [When permitted.] Accessory uses and structures are permitted when
located on the same lot as the principal use, within the zoned area.
      b.   [Outdoor storage.] Outdoor storage, as an accessory, must be
enclosed by an eight-foot fence, fencing must be opaque or sufficiently
screened.
      c.   Public/private utility facilities. Public works and public and
private facilities such as water and sewage plants, transformer stations,
transmission lines, pumping stations, water towers, and telephone exchanges,
provided:
         (i.)   Such facilities are essential to the service of the area.
         (ii.)   No vehicles or materials shall be stored on the premises, and
no offices shall be permitted.
         (iii.)   All buildings shall be set back at least 20 feet from all
property lines and shall be designed and landscaped with a buffer strip in such
a way as to blend in with the surrounding area.
         (iv.)   All dangerous apparatus shall be enclosed by a screen fence or
wall at least eight feet in height.
   (d)   Minimum building setback requirements. The minimum building setback
requirements for the community business district shall be as follows:
   (1)   From any arterial or collector street right-of-way, 40 feet.
   (2)   From any local street right-of-way, 30 feet.
   (3)   From an interior lot line adjacent to commercial or industrial zoning,
ten feet.
   (4)   From any interior lot line adjacent to residential zoning, 20 feet.
   (5)   From any access easement, 15 feet.
   The setback requirement applies to all accessory structures, including
gasoline pumps, underground storage tanks, canopies and other similar
structures.
   (e)   Maximum building height requirement. The maximum height of a building
in the Community Business District shall be 40 feet.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 4.4.7; Ord. of 7-9-2001; Amend. of 3-8-2004; Amend. of 7-
12-2004, § B); Amend. of 5-1-2006(2); Amend. of 12-06-2010; Amend. of 9-6-2011;
Amend. of - - )
   Cross reference—Businesses,
ch. 6.
Sec. 14-81. - General business district (GB).
   (a)   Intent. The general business district (GB) is intended to provide for
the development of commercial and service centers that are accessible to the
general public and from surrounding neighborhoods. Businesses in this district
are intended to serve the daily convenience and personal service needs of an
immediate area, and countywide or regional commercial and service needs.
   (b)   Permitted uses. See section
14-90 for table of permitted uses as a principal use in the general business
district.
   (1)   Additional specifications. 
      a.   Accessory uses and structures are permitted when located on the same
lot as the principal use, within the zoned area.
      b.   Outdoor storage must be enclosed by an eight-foot fence; fencing
must be opaque or sufficiently screened.
   (2)   Alternative energy systems. Provisions of sections
14-121 and
14-122 shall apply.
   (c)   Conditional zoning districts. For the general business district, a
parallel conditional zoning district is authorized for establishment, pursuant
to G.S. 160D-703. See section
14-90 for table of uses as a special use in the general business special use
district.
   (1)   Additional specifications:. 
      a.   [Accessory uses and structures.] Accessory uses and structures are
permitted when located on the same lot as the principal use, within the zoned
area.
      b.   [Outdoor storage.] Outdoor storage must be enclosed by an eight-foot
fence; fencing must be opaque or sufficiently screened.
      c.   Public/private utility facilities. Public works and public and
private facilities such as water and sewage plants, transformer stations,
transmission lines, pumping stations, water towers, and telephone exchanges,
provided:
         (i.)   Such facilities are essential to the service of the area.
         (ii.)   No vehicles or materials shall be stored on the premises, and
no offices shall be permitted.
         (iii.)   All buildings shall be set back at least 20 feet from all
property lines and shall be designed and landscaped with a buffer strip in such
a way as to blend in with the surrounding area.
         (iv.)   All dangerous apparatus shall be enclosed by a screen fence or
wall at least eight feet in height.
   (d)   Minimum building setback requirements. The minimum building setback
requirements in the general business district shall be as follows:
   (1)   From any arterial or collector street right-of-way, 40 feet.
   (2)   From any local street right-of-way, 30 feet.
   (3)   From an interior lot line adjacent to commercial or industrial zoning,
ten feet.
   (4)   From any interior lot line adjacent to residential zoning, 20 feet.
   (5)   From any access easement, 15 feet.
   The setback requirement applies to all accessory structures, including
gasoline pumps, underground storage tanks, canopies and other similar
structures.
   (e)   Maximum building height requirements. The maximum building height for
buildings in the general business district:
   (1)   Adjacent to a residential zoning district shall be 40 feet.
   (2)   Adjacent to a nonresidential zoning district, no height restrictions.
(Ord. of 7-11-2000, § 4.4.7; Ord. of 7-9-2001; Amend. of 3-8-2004; Amend. of 7-
12-2004, § B); Amend. of 5-1-2006(2); Amend. of 12-06-2010; Amend. of 9-6-2011)
   Cross reference—Businesses,
ch. 6.
Sec. 14-82. - Industrial-1 district (I-1).
   (a)   Intent. The industrial-1 district (I-1) is intended to provide for
public and private uses of a wholesale, distribution, limited processing,
manufacturing and processing, and production nature serving the needs of the
county, and to ensure the compatibility of such uses with their surroundings.
   (b)   Permitted uses. See section
14-90 for table of permitted uses as a principal use in the Industrial-
1 district.
   (1)   Additional specifications. 
      a.   Accessory uses and structures are permitted when located on the same
lot as the principal use, within the zoned area.
      b.   Circuses and carnivals, on a temporary basis, not to exceed seven
days, subject to special events ordinance application.
      c.   Outdoor storage, must be enclosed by an eight-foot fence; fencing
must be opaque or sufficiently screened.
   (2)   Alternative energy systems. Provisions of sections
14-121 through
14-123 shall apply.
   (c)   Conditional zoning districts. For the industrial-1 special use
district, a parallel conditional zoning district is authorized for
establishment, pursuant to G.S. 160D-703. See section
14-90 for table of uses as a special use in the industrial-1 special use
district.
   (1)   Additional specifications. 
      a.   Accessory uses and structures are permitted when located on the same
lot as the principal use, within the zoned area.
      b.   Outdoor storage must be enclosed by an eight-foot fence, fencing
must be opaque or sufficiently screened.
   (d)   Minimum building setback requirements. The minimum building setback
requirements of the Industrial-1 District shall be as follows:
   (1)   From any arterial or collector street right-of-way, 40 feet.
   (2)   From any local street right-of-way, 30 feet.
   (3)   From an interior lot line adjacent to commercial or industrial zoning,
ten feet.
   (4)   From any interior lot line adjacent to residential zoning, 20 feet.
   (5)   From any access easement, 15 feet.
   The setback requirement applies to all accessory structures, including
gasoline pumps, underground storage tanks, canopies and other similar
structures. .
   (e)   Maximum building height requirement. The maximum building height for
buildings in an industrial-1 district:
   (1)   Adjacent to a residential zoning district shall be 40 feet.
   (2)   Adjacent to a nonresidential zoning district, no height restrictions.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 4.4.8; Ord. of 7-9-2001; Amend. of 3-8-2004; Amend. of 7-
12-2004, § B); Amend. of 5-1-2006(3); Amend. of 12-06-2010; Amend. of 9-6-2011;
Amend. of - - )
   Cross reference—Businesses,
ch. 6.
Sec. 14-83. - Industrial-2 district (I-2).
   (a)   Intent. The industrial-2 district (I-2) is intended to provide for
public and private heavy industrial uses, including uses of a wholesale,
distribution, processing, manufacturing, and production nature. However, it is
required that the industries permitted in this district will take whatever
measures appropriate to minimize emissions of smoke, dust, fumes, noise and
vibrations resulting from such industrial activities.
   (b)   Permitted uses. See section
14-90 for table of permitted uses as a principal use in the industrial-
2 district.
   (1)   Additional specifications. 
      a.   Accessory uses and structures are permitted when located on the same
lot as the principal use, within the zoned area.
      b.   Circuses and carnivals, on a temporary basis, not to exceed seven
days, subject to special events ordinance application
      c.   Outdoor storage must be enclosed by an eight-foot fence, fencing
must opaque or sufficiently screened.
   (2)   Alternative energy systems. Provisions of sections
14-121 through
14-123 shall apply.
   (c)   Conditional zoning districts. For the industrial-2 special use
district, a parallel conditional zoning district is authorized for
establishment, pursuant to G.S. 160D-703. See section
14-90 for table of uses as a special use in the industrial-2 special use
district.
   (1)   Additional specifications. 
      a.   Accessory uses and structures are permitted when located on the same
lot as the principal use, within the zoned area.
      b.   Outdoor storage must be enclosed by an eight-foot fence; fencing
must opaque or sufficiently screened.
      c.   Automobile/vehicle junkyards and scrap metal operations shall
enclose all storage area by an opaque fence or wall at least ten feet in
height.
   (d)   Minimum building setback requirements. The minimum building setback
requirements in the industrial-2 district shall be as follows:
   (1)   From any arterial or collector street right-of-way, 40 feet.
   (2)   From any local street right-of-way, 30 feet.
   (3)   From an interior lot line adjacent to commercial or industrial zoning,
ten feet.
   (4)   From any interior lot line adjacent to residential zoning, 20 feet.
   (5)   From any access easement, 15 feet.
   The setback requirement applies to all accessory structures, including
gasoline pumps, underground storage tanks, canopies and other similar
structures.
   (e)   Maximum building height requirement. The maximum building height for a
building in the industrial-2 district:
   (1)   Adjacent to a residential zoning district shall be 40 feet.
   (2)   Adjacent to a nonresidential zoning district, no height restrictions.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 4.4.9; Ord. of 7-9-2001; Amend. of 3-8-2004; Amend. of 7-
12-2004, § B); Amend. of 5-1-2006(3); Amend. of 12-06-2010; Amend. of 9-6-2011;
Amend. of - - )
   Cross reference—Businesses,
ch. 6.
Secs. 14-84—14-88. - Reserved.
Sec 14-89. - Table of permitted residential uses.
                                       Residential-                                  Interstate  Water      Municipal
 Residential Agricultural- Resort-     Mobile Home  Community General  Office &      Highway     Supply     Transition
 Uses        Residential   Residential Park         Business  Business Institutional Interchange Watershed  District
 (primary)   (AR)          (RR)        (R-MHP)      (CB)      (GB)     (OI)          (IHI)       Protection (MTD)
                                                                                                 (WSW)
                                                           Residential-                                     Interstate  Water      Municipal
   Residential Uses              Agricultural- Resort-     Mobile Home  Community  General    Office &      Highway     Supply     Transition
   (primary)                     Residential   Residential Park         Business   Business   Institutional Interchange Watershed  District
                                 (AR)          (RR)        (R-MHP)      (CB)       (GB)       (OI)          (IHI)       Protection (MTD)
                                                                                                                        (WSW)
                                                                                                            Permitted.  Permitted, Permitted,
                                 Permitted,                                                                 limited to  limited to limited to
                                 limited to    Permitted,               Permitted,                          1 du/ac     1 du/ac    2.5 du/ac
   Single-Family Detached/       1.45 du/ac    limited to               limited to                          density     density >  or 4.0 du/
1  Modular Home with public      density;      30,000 sf                1.5 du/ac                           >40,000 sf  40,000 sf  ac
   water system                  >30,000 sf    lot size                 density                             lot size;   lot size;  density;
                                 lot size                                                                   see Sect.   see Sect.  based on
                                                                                                            14-103      14-105     road type
                                                                                                                                   category
                                                                                                            Permitted.  Permitted,
                                 Permitted,                                                                 limited to  limited to
   Single-Family Detached/       limited to    Permitted,                                                   1 du/ac     1.0 du/ac
2  Modular Home with private     1.0 du/ac     limited to               Permitted                           density     density,
   well                          density,      40,000 sf                                                    >40,000 sf  >40,000 sf
                                 >40,000 sf    lot size                                                     lot size;   lot size;
                                 lot size                                                                   see Sect.   see Sect.
                                                                                                            14-103      14-105e
                                                           Permitted,
                                                           limited to
                                                           4.0 du/ac
                                 Permitted,                density w/                                       Permitted,  Permitted, Permitted,
3  Manufactured Mobile Home      limited to 1              public                                           limited to  limited to limited to
   (single wide)                 ac min. lot               sewer; 3.0                                       1 ac min.   1 ac min.  1 ac min.
                                 size                      du/ac                                            lot size    lot size   lot size
                                                           density w/
                                                           private
                                                           septic
                                 Permitted,                                                                                        Permitted,
                                 limited to                                                                 Permitted.             limited to
                                 1.45 du/ac                                                                 limited to  Permitted, 2.5 du/ac
                                 density, >                Permitted,                                       1 du/ac     limited to or 4.0 du/
4  Manufactured Mobile Home      30,000 sf lot             limited to                                       density     1 du/ac    ac
   (double wide)                 size with                 1.5 du/ac                                        >40,000 sf  density;   density;
                                 public water;             density                                          lot size;   see Sect.  based on
                                 >40,000 sf                                                                 see Sect.   14-105     road type
                                 lot size with                                                              14-103                 category
                                 well
                                                                                                            Permitted,  Permitted, Permitted,
                                                                                                            limited to  limited to limited to
                                 Permitted,                                                                 2 du/ac     2 du/ac    2.5 du/ac
                                 limited to                                                                 density, if density,   or 4.0 du/
5  Duplex                        1.45 du/ac                                                                 PUD w/      if PUD w/  ac
                                 density;                                                                   public      public     density;
                                 counted as 2                                                               sewer; 1    sewer; 1   based on
                                                                                                            du/ac       du/ac      road type
                                                                                                            density, if density,   category
                                                                                                            AR          if AR
                                                                                                            Permitted,  Permitted, Permitted,
                                                                                                            limited to  limited to limited to
                                 Permitted,                                                                 2 du/ac     2 du/ac    2.5 du/ac
                                 limited to                                                                 density, if density,   or 4.0 du/
6  Two-Unit Townhouse            1.45 du/ac                                                                 PUD w/      if PUD w/  ac
                                 density;                                                                   public      public     density;
                                 counted as 2                                                               sewer; 1    sewer; 1   based on
                                 units                                                                      du/ac       du/ac      road type
                                                                                                            density, if density,   category
                                                                                                            AR          if AR
                                 Special Use,
7  Townhouse                     Planned
                                 Development
                                                                        Permitted, Permitted, Permitted,
                                                                        limited to limited to limited to 2  Special
                                                                        2 du/ac    2 du/ac    du/ac         Use,
8  Multi-Family                                                         density;   density;   density;      limited to
                                                                        within     within     within        8 du/ac
                                                                        commercial commercial commercial    density
                                                                        building   building   building
9  RVs/Camper Trailers/Tents                   Permitted
10 Planned Development—Housing
   (only) 
11 Planned Development—Mixed Use
 
   ** Dwelling Units per Acre = du/ac
   *** Please refer to the specific zoning district for additional requirements
and use.
(Amend. of 5-2-2011; Amend. of 3-4-2019; Amend. of 8-3-2020)
Sec. 14-90. - Table of business, commercial, and industrial uses.
                                                            Neighborhood Community  General    Interstate  Office &      Industrial- Industrial-
    Business/ Commercial/ Industrial Uses                   Business     Business   Business   Highway     Institutional 1           2
                                                            (NB)         (CB)       (GB)       Interchange (OI)          (I-1)       (I-2)
                                                                                               (IHI)
1   Airport                                                                                                              Special use Permitted
2   Asphalt Plant                                                                                                                    Permitted
                                                                         Permitted,
                                                                         limited to
                                                                         4 bay self
3   Automobile Car Wash                                                  wash or    Permitted  Permitted
                                                                         2,500 sf
                                                                         detail
                                                                         service
                                                                         Permitted,
4   Automotive Part Sales                                                limited to Permitted  Permitted
                                                                         6,500 sf
                                                                         Permitted,
                                                                         limited to
                                                                         = 2,000
5   Automotive Repair— Mechanical                                      sf, no     Permitted  Permitted                 Permitted   Permitted
                                                                         more than
                                                                         8 vehicles
                                                                         stored
                                                                         overnight
6   Automotive Repair—Paint/ Body                                                 Permitted  Permitted                 Permitted   Permitted
                                                                         Permitted,
                                                                         limited to
                                                                         35
                                                                         vehicles
7   Automotive Sales and Display                                         per acre   Permitted  Permitted                 Permitted   Permitted
                                                                         density,
                                                                         not to
                                                                         exceed 70
                                                                         vehicles
                                                                         total
                                                                         Permitted,
                                                                         limited to
                                                                         2,000 sf,
8   Automotive Service Station                                           no more    Permitted  Permitted                 Permitted   Permitted
                                                                         than 8
                                                                         vehicles
                                                                         stored
                                                                         overnight
9   Bakery— Establishments Manufacturing Food Products                                                                 Permitted   Permitted
                                                            Permitted,   Permitted,
10  Bakery—Retail                                         limited to = limited to Permitted  Permitted                 Permitted   Permitted
                                                            3,500 sf     5,000 sf
                                                                         Permitted,
11  Bank                                                                 limited to Permitted  Permitted   Permitted
                                                                         4,000 sf
                                                                                    Permitted, Permitted,
                                                                                    not to be  not to be
                                                                                    considered considered
12  Bar/Club                                                                        sexually-  sexually-
                                                                                    oriented/  oriented/
                                                                                    adult      adult
                                                                                    business   business
                                                            Permitted,   Permitted,
13  Barber/Beauty Shop to include Nail Salon                limited to = limited to Permitted  Permitted   Permitted
                                                            500sf        2,000 sf
                                                                                               * See
14  Bed & Breakfast accessory to dwelling                   Permitted    Permitted             underlying
                                                                                               zoning
                                                                                               district
15  Bedding Manufacturing                                                                                                            Permitted
                                                                                               * See
16  Boarding / Tourist House                                Permitted    Permitted             underlying
                                                                                               zoning
                                                                                               district
17  Boat Manufacturing and Sales                                                                                         Permitted   Permitted
18  Boat Sales and Repair                                                           Permitted                            Permitted   Permitted
19  Bottling Plant                                                                                                       Permitted   Permitted
20  Building Materials/ Supplies— Lumberyards, Storage—                                                              Permitted   Permitted
    Wholesale
21  Building Materials/ Supplies—Retail Sales                                     Permitted  Permitted                 Permitted   Permitted
22  Bus Repair and Storage Terminal/Facility                                                                                         Permitted
                                                            Permitted,   Permitted,
                                                            limited to = limited to
23  Business— Convenience Store                           3,500sf and  5,000 sf   Permitted  Permitted
                                                            6 fuel pumps and 10
                                                                         fuel pumps
                                                            Permitted,   Permitted,
24  Business—Office                                       limited to   limited to Permitted  Permitted   Permitted     Permitted   Permitted
                                                            3,500 sf     = 12,500
                                                                         sf
                                                            Permitted,   Permitted,
25  Business—Retail                                       limited to   limited to Permitted  Permitted
                                                            3,500 sf     6,500 sf
26  Business— Wholesale                                                           Permitted  Permitted                 Permitted   Permitted
27  Cabinet/ Woodworking Shop                                                                                            Permitted   Permitted
                                                                                    Permitted,
28  Campgrounds— Travel Trailer Parks                                             minimum of
                                                                                    2 acres
29  Carnival/Circus (Temporary)                                                     Special    Permitted                 Permitted   Permitted
                                                                                    use
30  Carpet Cleaning/ Manufacturing                                                                                                   Permitted
31  Cemetery— Commercial                                               Special    Special    Permitted   Special use
                                                                         use        use
32  Cemetery accessory to Place of Worship                  Permitted    Permitted  Permitted  Permitted   Permitted
33  Chemical Manufacturing— Household/ Industrial                                                                                  Permitted
34  Civic/Fraternal/Social Clubs & Organizations            Permitted    Permitted  Permitted  Permitted   Permitted
35  Clothing/Textile Manufacturing                                                                                       Permitted   Permitted
36  Crematorium Facility                                                                                                 Permitted   Permitted
37  Coal/Wood/Fuel Yards, Pole Treating Plants                                                                                       Permitted
38  Concrete Plant— Manufacturing                                                                                                  Permitted
39  Contractors Office w/Storage Yard                                               Permitted  Permitted                 Permitted   Permitted
40  Cotton Gin—Cotton Waste Processing                                                                                             Permitted
41  Dairy Products— Processing/ Distribution                                                                           Permitted   Permitted
                                                            Permitted,
42  Dance Studio/Gymnastics                                 limited to   Permitted  Permitted  Permitted   Permitted
                                                            3,500 sf
                                                            Permitted,   Permitted,
                                                            limited to   limited to
43  Day Care Facility—Adult                               the care of  the care   Permitted  Permitted   Permitted
                                                            6 adults     of 12
                                                                         adults
                                                            Permitted,   Permitted,
44  Day Care Facility—Child                               limited to   limited to Permitted  Permitted   Permitted
                                                            2,500 sf     = 5,000 sf
                                                            Permitted,   Permitted, Permitted, * See
45  Day Care, Home—Child                                  limited to   limited to limited to underlying
                                                            15 children  15         15         zoning
                                                                         Children   children   district
46  Dry Cleaning/Laundry Plants                                                                                          Permitted   Permitted
                                                                         Permitted,
47  Dry Cleaning Establishment                                           limited to Permitted  Permitted
                                                                         = 6,500 sf
48  Electrical/ Electronics Manufacturing/ Assembly                                                                      Permitted   Permitted
49  Extraction of Earth Products                                                                                                     Special use
50  Farm Machinery Assembly                                                                                              Permitted   Permitted
                                                            Permitted,   Permitted,
                                                            limited to 3 limited to
51  Farmers Market not considered Flea Market               ac including 10 ac      Permitted  Permitted
                                                            parking      including
                                                                         parking
                                                                         Permitted,
52  Feed &amp; Seed Sales                                                limited to Permitted  Permitted                 Permitted   Permitted
                                                                         6,500 sf
53  Feed/Seed/Flour Mill/ Manufacturing                                                                                              Permitted
54  Fertilizing Manufacturing                                                                                                        Permitted
55  Flea Market                                                                     Special    Special use
                                                                                    use
56  Funeral Home                                                                    Permitted  Permitted   Permitted
57  Foundries Producing Iron, Steel, Copper, Brass,                                                                                  Permitted
    Aluminum Products
58  Furniture Manufacturing                                                                                              Permitted   Permitted
59  Glass Manufacturing                                                                                                              Permitted
60  Glass/Mirror/ Window Blind/Awning/Tile Shop & Similar                                                                Permitted   Permitted
    Specialties
61  Government Use Facility                                 Permitted    Permitted  Permitted  Permitted   Permitted     Permitted   Permitted
                                                            Permitted,   Permitted,
                                                            limited to   limited to
62  Group Care Facility                                     the care of  the care   Permitted  Permitted   Permitted
                                                            6 persons    of 12
                                                                         persons
63  Heating and Air Conditioning Shop                                               Permitted  Permitted                 Permitted   Permitted
                                                                                               * See
64  Home Occupation accessory to dwelling                   Permitted    Permitted  Permitted  underlying
                                                                                               zoning
                                                                                               district
65  Hospital                                                                        Permitted  Permitted   Permitted
66  Hotel                                                                           Permitted  Permitted
67  Ice Plant/Storage, Freezer Lockers                                                                                   Permitted   Permitted
68  Industrial Supplies/ Equipment Sales/Service                                                                         Permitted   Permitted
69  Junkyard/Salvage Yards                                                                                                           Special use
70  Kennel                                                  Special use  Special    Permitted  Permitted
                                                                         use
71  Landfills                                                                                                                        Special use
72  Landscaping/ Nursery Stock Sales                                     Permitted  Permitted  Permitted                 Permitted   Permitted
73  Leather Products— Luggage Manufacturing                                                                            Permitted   Permitted
74  Leather/Hide Tanning Operations                                                                                                  Special use
                                                                         Permitted,
75  Libraries/ Museums/Art Galleries                                     limited to Permitted  Permitted   Permitted
                                                                         = 12,500
                                                                         sf
76  Livestock Sales                                                                                                                  Permitted
77  Lumber Yard not considered sawmill                                              Permitted  Permitted                 Permitted   Permitted
78  Machine Shop                                                                                                         Permitted   Permitted
79  Machine/Tool Manufacturing                                                                                                       Permitted
80  Manufacturing Uses — Operations                                                                                    Permitted   Permitted
81  Masonry Brick/Tile/Pottery Manufacturing/ Sales                                                                                  Permitted
82  Masonry Product Sales                                                           Permitted  Permitted                 Permitted   Permitted
83  Meat Packing Plant                                                                                                               Permitted
                                                                         Permitted,
84  Medical Clinic                                                       limited to Permitted  Permitted   Permitted
                                                                         12,500 sf
85  Metal Fabrication Plants including Boiler & Tank Works                                                                           Permitted
86  Mining/Quarry Operation                                                                                                          Special use
87  Mini-Storage                                                                    Permitted  Permitted                 Permitted   Permitted
88  Mobile/Modular Home Sales                                                       Permitted  Permitted
89  Monument Sales/Works                                                                                                             Permitted
                                                                         Permitted,
                                                                         limited to
90  Nursing Home                                                         the care   Permitted  Permitted   Permitted
                                                                         of 18
                                                                         persons
                                                            Special use, Special
91  Open Storage                                            accessory    use,       Permitted  Permitted                 Permitted   Permitted
                                                            use only     accessory
                                                                         use only
92  Paper goods— Manufacturing/ Distribution                                                                           Permitted   Permitted
                                                            Permitted,   Permitted,
93  Parcel Post Shipping/ Receiving                         limited to = limited to Permitted  Permitted   Permitted
                                                            2,000 sf     5,000 sf
94  Pawn Shop                                                                       Permitted  Permitted
95  Pharmaceutical—Manufacturing/ Distribution                                               Permitted                 Permitted   Permitted
                                                                         Permitted,
96  Pharmacies                                                           limited to Permitted  Permitted   Permitted
                                                                         6,500 sf
                                                            Permitted,   Permitted,
97  Physical Fitness Center                                 limited to   limited to Permitted  Permitted   Permitted
                                                            3,500 sf     12,500 sf
98  Place of Worship                                        Permitted    Permitted  Permitted  Permitted   Permitted
99  Plastics Manufacturing—Rubber Products                                                                             Permitted   Permitted
100 Plumbing—Heating Supply Offices/Storage Area                                  Permitted  Permitted                 Permitted   Permitted
101 Poultry Processing Plant                                                                                                         Permitted
                                                                         Permitted,
102 Printing/ Reproduction/ Publishing                                   limited to Permitted  Permitted   Permitted
                                                                         = 5,000 sf
103 Public/Private Utility Facilities                       Special use  Special    Special    Special use Special use   Special use Special use
                                                                         use        use
104 Public/Private Utility Stations                         Permitted    Permitted  Permitted  Permitted   Permitted     Permitted   Permitted
                                                                         Permitted,
105 Recreation— Indoor                                                 limited to Permitted  Permitted
                                                                         = 12,500
                                                                         sf
                                                            Permitted,   Permitted,                                      Permitted   Permitted
106 Recreation— Outdoor                                   limited to 2 limited to Permitted  Permitted                 accessory   accessory
                                                            acres        = 10 acres                                      use         use
107 Research/ Development Facility                                                             Permitted                 Permitted   Permitted
                                                            Permitted,   Permitted,
                                                            limited to   limited to Permitted, Permitted,
                                                            1,250 sf, no = 3,500    drive-up   drive-up    Permitted     Permitted   Permitted
108 Restaurant                                              drive-up     sf, no     window     window      accessory use accessory   accessory
                                                            window       drive-up   permitted  permitted                 use         use
                                                            allowed      window
                                                                         allowed
                                                            Permitted,   Permitted,
108 Retail Center                                           limited to   limited to Permitted  Permitted
                                                            3,500 sf     = 6,500 sf
                                                            Permitted,   Permitted,
109 Riding Stables                                          limited to 3 limited to Permitted  Permitted
                                                            acres        5 acres
110 Rifle, Skeet &amp; Trap                                                         Permitted
111 Roofing Material Manufacturing                                                                                                   Permitted
112 Sawmills, Planing Mills & Wooden Box Factories                                                                                   Permitted
                                                            Permitted,   Permitted,
113 School— Montessori and other Educational              limited to = limited to Permitted  Permitted   Permitted
                                                            2,250 sf     8,000 sf
114 School—Public/ Private (K-12), University             Permitted    Permitted  Permitted  Permitted   Permitted     Special use Special use
115 Sexually- Oriented/Adult Business                                               Special    Special use
                                                                                    use
116 Shopping Center                                                                 Special    Permitted
                                                                                    use
117 Sign Fabricating Shop                                                                                                Permitted   Permitted
                                                                         Permitted,
118 Spa—Day                                                            limited to Permitted  Permitted   Permitted
                                                                         12,500 sf
                                                                         Permitted,
119 Spa—Medical                                                        limited to Permitted  Permitted   Permitted
                                                                         12,500 sf
                                                            Permitted,   Permitted,
120 Sporting Goods                                          limited to   limited to Permitted  Permitted
                                                            3,500 sf     = 6,500 sf
121 Storage of Explosives                                                                                                            Special use
                                                            Permitted,   Permitted,
122 Tanning Salon                                           limited to   limited to Permitted  Permitted   Permitted
                                                            500 sf       = 2,000 sf
123 Theater                                                                         Permitted  Permitted
                                                            Permitted,   Permitted,
124 Thrift Store— Apparel/ Household                      limited to = limited to Permitted  Permitted
                                                            3,500 sf     6,500 sf
125 Tire Recapping                                                                                                       Special use Special use
                                                                         Permitted,
126 Tire Sales— Nondistributing                                        limited to Permitted  Permitted
                                                                         = 6,500 sf
127 Trucking Terminals—Transfer Companies                                                    Special use               Special use Special use
128 Upholstery Shop                                                                                                      Permitted   Permitted
129 Vending Companies                                                                                                    Permitted   Permitted
130 Vendor Sales— Temporary                               Permitted    Permitted  Permitted  Permitted   Permitted     Permitted   Permitted
                                                                         Permitted,
                                                                         limited to
                                                                         = 12,500
131 Veterinary Clinic                                                    sf;        Permitted  Permitted
                                                                         special
                                                                         Use w/
                                                                         Kennel
                                                                                    Permitted,
132 Warehouse Facility/ Wholesale Establishment                                     limited to Permitted                 Permitted   Permitted
                                                                                    30,000 sf
                                                                                    Permitted,
133 Warehousing                                                                     limited to Permitted                 Permitted   Permitted
                                                                                    30,000 sf
134 Welding Shop                                                                                                         Permitted   Permitted
135 Wholesale Gasoline Storage Facility                                                                                  Special use Special use
136 Wireless Communication Receiving/ Transmitting Tower    Special use  Special    Special    Special use Special use   Special use Special use
    and Facilities                                                       use        use
 
(Amend. of 12-06-2010)
Secs. 14-91—14-100. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - OVERLAYING ZONING DISTRICTS
   Sec.
14-101. - Intent.
   Sec.
14-102. - Airport height hazard district (AHH).
   Sec.
14-103. - Environmentally sensitive area district (ES).
   Sec.
14-104. - Interstate highway interchange district (IHI).
   Sec.
14-105. - Water supply watershed protection district (WSW).
   Sec.
14-106. - Municipal transition district (MTD).
   Sec.
14-107. - Amendments to overlay district boundaries.
   Secs. 14-108—14-114. - Reserved.
Sec. 14-101. - Intent.
   It is the intent of this division to provide for various zoning districts
which shall overlay the zoning districts enumerated in division 2 of this
article, and which shall provide for special review of development within such
overlay districts in accordance with the intents, procedures and standards
established for the overlay districts.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 4.5)
Sec. 14-102. - Airport height hazard district (AHH).
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of the airport height hazard district (AHH) is to
provide regulations that provide a higher level of control from activities,
situations and obstructions that could have the potential for endangering the
lives and property of users of the county airport, and property or occupants of
land in its vicinity. Further, the creation or establishment of an obstruction
may effect existing and future instrument approach minimums of the county
airport, and that obstruction may present a hazard to air navigation and/or
reduce the size of areas available for the safe landing, takeoff and
maneuvering of aircraft.
   (b)   Intent. It is the intent of this section to prevent the creation or
establishment of hazards to air navigation, eliminate, remove, alter or
mitigate hazards to air navigation, by regulating the height of structures, and
the use of property in the vicinity of the airport.
   (c)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Airport elevation means the topographical elevation above mean sea level. At
the county airport this elevation is 165 feet.
   Approach surface means a surface longitudinally centered on the extended
runway centerline, extending outward and upward from the end of the primary
surface and at the same slope as the approach zone height limitation slope set
forth in subsection (e) of this section. In plan, the perimeter of the approach
surface coincides with the perimeter of the approach zone.
   Conical surface means a surface extending outward and upward from the
periphery of the horizontal surface at a slope of 20 to one for a horizontal
distance of 4,000 feet.
   Hazard to air navigation means an obstruction determined to have a
substantial adverse effect on the safe and efficient utilization of the
navigable air space.
   Height means the height limits set forth in this section and as shown on the
height hazard map, the datum shall mean sea level elevation except as otherwise
specified.
   Horizontal surface means the horizontal 150 feet above the established
airport elevation, the perimeter of which in plan coincides with the perimeter
of the horizontal zone.
   Larger than utility runway means the runway that is constructed for and
intended to be used for propeller driven aircraft or greater then 12,500 pounds
maximum gross weight or jet powered aircraft.
   Nonprecision instrument runway means the runway having an existing
instrument approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with only
horizontal guidance, or area type navigation equipment, for which a straight-in
nonprecision instrument approach procedure has been approved or planned.
   Obstruction means any building, structure, growth, or other object,
including a mobile object which exceeds a limiting height as set out in
subsection (e) of this section.
   Precision instrument runway means a runway having an existing instrument
approach procedure utilizing an instrument landing system (ILS) or a precision
approach radar (PAR), or a runway for which a precision approach system is
planned and is so indicated on the approved airport layout plan or any other
planning document.
   Primary surface means a surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When
the runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface extends
200 feet beyond each end of that runway. For military runways, or when the
runway has no specially prepared hard surface, or planned hard surface, the
primary surface ends at each end of that runway. The elevation of any point on
the primary surface is the same as the elevation of the nearest point on the
runway centerline.
   Runway means a defined area on an airport prepared for landing and takeoff
of aircraft along its length.
   Transitional surfaces means a surface extending outward at 90 degree angles
to the runway centerline extended at a slope of seven feet horizontally for
each foot vertically from the sides of the primary and approach surfaces to
where they intersect the horizontal and conical approach surfaces. Transitional
surfaces for those portions of the precision approach surfaces, which project
through and beyond the limits of the conical surface, extend a distance of
5,000 feet measured horizontally from the edge of the approach surface and at a
90 degree angle to the extended runway centerline.
   Utility runaway means a runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft
using visual approach procedures.
   Visual runway means a runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft
using visual approach procedures.
   (d)   Airport hazard district zones. In order to carry out the provisions of
this section, there are created and established certain zones which include all
of the land lying beneath the approach surfaces, transitional surfaces,
horizontal surfaces, and conical surfaces as they apply to the county airport.
Such zones are identified on the airport hazard district map which is on file
in the office of the county planning office and the geographical informational
services office. An area located in one or more than one of the following zones
is considered to be the only area in the zone with the more restrictive height
regulations.
   (1)   Runway larger than utility visual approach zone. This zone is defined
as the inner edge of the approach zone that coincides with the width of the
primary surface and is 500 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward
uniformly to a width of 1,500 feet at a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet from
the primary surface. Its centerline is the continuation of the centerline of
the runway.
   (2)   Runway larger than utility with a minimum greater than three-quarter
mile nonprecision instrument approach zone. This zone is defined as the inner
edge of this approach zone that coincides with the width of the primary surface
and is 500 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of
3,500 feet at a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet from the primary surface.
Its centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
   (3)   Runway larger than utility with a visibility minimum as low as three-
quarter mile nonprecision instrument approach zone. This zone is defined as the
inner edge of this approach zone that coincides with the width of the primary
surface and is 1,000 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to
a width of 4,000 feet at a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet from the primary
surface. Its centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
   (4)   Precision instrument runway approach zone. This zone is defined as the
inner edge of this approach zone that coincides with the width of the primary
surface and is 1,000 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to
a width of 16,000 feet at a horizontal distance of 50,000 feet from the primary
surface. Its centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
   (5)   Transitional zone. The transitional zones are those zones that are the
areas beneath the transitional surfaces.
   (6)   Horizontal zone. This zone is defined as that area established by
swinging arcs of 5,000 feet radii for all runways designated as utility or
visual and 10,000 feet for all others from the center of each and the primary
surface of each runway connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines tangent to
those arcs. The horizontal zone does not include approach and transitional at
the periphery of the horizontal zone, and extends outward from a horizontal
distance of 4,000 feet.
   (e)   Airport environs height regulations. Except as otherwise provided in
this section, no building or structure shall be erected, altered, or
maintained, and no tree shall be allowed to grow in any airport hazard district
zone to a height in excess of the applicable height established for such zone.
The maximum height regulations are as follows:
   (1)   Runway larger than utility visual approach zone. Slopes 20 feet
outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of, and at the same elevation
as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet
along the extended runway centerline.
   (2)   Runway larger than utility with a visibility minimum greater than
three-quarter mile nonprecision instrument approach zone. Slopes 34 feet
outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of, and extending to a
horizontal distance of 10,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
   (3)   Runway larger than utility with a visibility minimum as low as three-
quarter mile nonprecision instrument approach zone. Slopes 34 feet outward for
each foot upward beginning at the end of, and at the same elevation as the
primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet along the
extended runway centerline.
   (4)   Precision instrument runway approach zone. Slopes 50 feet outward for
each foot upward beginning at the end of, and at the same elevation as the
primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance upward of 40 feet
horizontally for each foot vertically to an additional horizontal distance of
40,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
   (5)   Transitional zone. Slopes seven feet outward for each foot upward
beginning at the sides of, and at the same elevation as the primary surface and
the approach surface, and extending to a height of 150 feet above the airport
elevation (165 feet above mean sea level). In addition to the foregoing, there
are established height limits sloping seven feet outward for each foot upward
beginning at the sides of, and the same elevation as the approach surface, and
extending to where they intersect the conical surface. Where the precision
instrument runway approach zone projects beyond the conical zone, there are
established height limits sloping seven feet outward for each foot upward
beginning at the sides of, and the same elevation as the approach surface and
extending a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet measured at 90 degree angles to
the extended runway centerline.
   (6)   Horizontal zone. Established at 150 feet above the airport elevation
or at a height of 315 feet above mean sea level.
   (7)   Conical zone. Slopes 20 feet outward for each foot upward beginning at
the periphery of the horizontal zone, and at 150 feet above the airport
elevation and extending to a height of 350 feet above the airport elevation.
   (f)   Airport environs height regulations exceptions. Nothing in this
section shall be construed as prohibiting the construction or maintenance of
any structure, or growth of any tree to a height up to 50 feet above the
surface of the land.
   (g)   Use regulations. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section,
no use may be made of land or water within any zone established by this section
in such a manner as to:
   (1)   Create electrical interference with navigational signals or radio
communication between airport and aircraft;
   (2)   Make it difficult for pilots to distinguish between airport lights and
other lights;
   (3)   Result in glare in the eyes of pilots using the airport;
   (4)   Impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport;
   (5)   Create bird strike hazards; or
   (6)   Otherwise in any way endanger or interfere with the landing, takeoff,
or maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport.
   (h)   Existing uses. The regulations prescribed in this section shall not by
construed to require the removal, alteration, lowering or other change of any
structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of May 7, 1984, or
otherwise interfere with the continuance of a nonconforming use. Nothing
contained in this section shall require any change in the construction,
alteration, or intended use of any structure, the construction or alteration of
which was begun prior to May 7, 1984.
   (i)   Marking and lighting. Notwithstanding the provisions of this section,
the owner of any existing structure that exceeds the height requirements of
subsection (e) of this section, is required to permit the installation,
operation, and maintenance thereon of such markers and lights as shall be
deemed necessary by the county airport authority to indicate to the operators
of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport the presence of such airport
obstruction. Such markers and lights shall be installed, operated, and
maintained at the expense of the county airport authority.
   (j)   Permits required. Except as specifically provided in this subsection,
no material change shall be made in the use of land, no structure shall be
erected or otherwise established, and no tree shall be planted in any zone
hereby created unless a permit thereof shall have been applied for and granted.
Each application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for which the permit
is desired, with sufficient information in order to determine whether the
resulting use, structure, or tree would conform to the regulations prescribed
in this article.
   (1)   Existing uses. No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an obstruction, or permit a nonconforming use,
structure or tree, to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on
May 7, 1984, or than it is when the application permit is made.
   (2)   Nonconforming uses, abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the planning
director determines that a nonconforming structure or tree has been abandoned,
or more that 80 percent physically deteriorated, destroyed, or decayed, no
permit shall be granted that would allow such structure or tree to exceed the
height regulations of subsection (e) of this section, or otherwise deviate from
the requirements of this section.
   (3)   Permit exemptions. 
      a.   In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and
conical zone, no permit shall be required for any structure or tree less than
75 feet of vertical height above the ground, except when, because of existing
terrain, land contour, or topographic feature, such structure or tree would
extend above the required height limits prescribed for such zones.
      b.   In areas lying within the limits of the approach zones, but at a
horizontal distance of not less than 4,200 feet from each end of the runway, no
permit shall be required for any structure or tree less than 75 feet of
vertical height above the ground, except when such structure or tree, because
of existing terrain, land contour, or topographic feature, would extend above
the required height limit prescribed for such zones. Nothing contained in any
of the foregoing exceptions shall be construed as permitting or intending to
permit any construction, or alteration, of any structure, or growth of any tree
in excess of any of the required height limits established in subsection (e) of
this section.
   (k)   Variances. Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
building or structure not in accordance with the regulations prescribed in this
section, may apply to the board of adjustment for a variance from such
regulations. The application for a variance must be accompanied by a
determination letter from the Federal Aviation Administration as to the effect
of the variance request on the operation of air navigation facilities and the
safe, efficient use of navigable air space. An application for a variance from
the requirements of this section shall be referred to the airport manager for
advice as to the aeronautical effects of the variance request on the operation
of the airport facilities. If the airport manager does not respond to the
application request within 15 days after receipt of the application, the board
of adjustment may act on its own to grant or deny such application. The board
of adjustment, based on findings of fact, shall grant the variance if it:
   (1)   Is found that a literal application of enforcement of the regulations
will result in unnecessary hardship and relief granted will not be contrary to
the public interest;
   (2)   Will not create a hazard to air navigation;
   (3)   Will do no injustice; and
   (4)   Will be in accord with the spirit and intent of this section.
   (l)   Obstruction marking and lighting. Any permit or variance granted may,
if such action is deemed advisable to carry out the purpose of this section,
and is reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the
owner of the structure to install, operate, and maintain, at the owner's
expense, such markings and lights as necessary. If deemed proper by the board
of adjustment, this condition may be modified to permit the county airport
authority, at its own expense, to install, operate and maintain the necessary
markings and lights.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 4.5.1)
Sec. 14-103. - Environmentally sensitive area district (ES).
   (a)   Purpose and intent. The environmentally sensitive area district (ES)
is established as a district that overlays areas deemed environmentally
sensitive. Development within this overlay district shall comply with the
regulations of the underlying zoning district, provisions of this section and
any other applicable sections of this article.
   (b)   Definitions: 
   (1)   Intermittent stream. A natural drainage way, which shows up as a blue
line on the USGA 7.5 minute quadrangle maps and has a contributing drainage
area of 300 acres or more shall be considered an intermittent stream for
purposes of this ordinance.
   (2)   Perennial stream. Perennial streams are streams that have essentially
continuous flows. Perennial streams in the environmentally sensitive area are
specifically designated to be Swift Creek, White Oak Creek, Little Creek (from
the U.S. 70 Clayton bypass to Swift Creek), and the Little River (from the
county line to NC 39).
   (c)   Delineation of. 
   (1)   Perennial stream buffers. Perennial stream buffers shall be measured
from the top of the channel bank and extend landward a minimum distance of 100
feet measured horizontally on a line perpendicular to the water body, subject
to the following conditions:
      a.   The buffer shall be undisturbed and remain forested if currently
forested.
      b.   If the existing buffer is not forested, it shall be maintained in a
natural state and allowed to revegetate.
      c.   There shall be no fill allowed within the buffer area.
   (2)   Intermittent stream buffers. Intermittent stream buffers shall have
two zones as described below:
      a.   Zone 1 shall be an undisturbed area extending from the channel bank
landward a minimum of 30 feet measured horizontally on a line perpendicular to
the water body.
      b.   Zone 2 shall be a vegetative buffer extending from the outer edge of
zone 1 landward a minimum of 20 feet measured horizontally on a line
perpendicular to zone 1.
   (3)   Maintenance of buffers. Zone 1 and zone 2 shall be maintained by the
landowner or homeowners' association to maintain stormwater sheet flow to the
maximum extent practical to provide for diffusion and infiltration of
stormwater runoff and filtering of pollutants into the affected stream,
consistent with maintenance criteria as set out in the county design manual.
   (4)   Exemptions. The following are exempt from the stream buffer
requirements of this section:
      a.   Areas that are mapped on the USGS quadrangle map that do not exist
on the ground.
      b.   Ponds and lakes created for animal watering, irrigation of farm
lands, or other agricultural uses that are not part of a natural drainageway.
      c.   Where application of the requirements of this section would prevent
all prospective use of a lot platted and recorded prior to May 26, 1998.
      d.   Water dependent structures that are designed, constructed, and
maintained to provide the maximum nutrient removal, have the least adverse
affects on aquatic habitats and that protect water quality.
      e.   Roads, bridges, stormwater management facilities, ponds, and
utilities where no other practical alternative exists. These structures shall
be so located, designed, constructed, and maintained to have minimal
disturbance, provide maximum nutrient removal, provide the least adverse
effects on aquatic habitats and protect water quality to the maximum extent
possible.
      f.   Ditches and manmade conveyances other than modified natural streams.
   (5)   Flood hazard areas. There shall be no development allowed within the
areas of special flood hazard as defined in the county flood damage prevention
ordinance, which shall be defined as residential and nonresidential structures,
including improvements or additions to such structures. However, specifically
allowed improvements include public utility structures, buried utilities,
roadways and accessways, and recreational facilities as long as no structures
are involved.
   (d)   Density regulations.
   (1)   Residential development is permitted at an overall density of one
dwelling unit per acre (40,000 square feet minimum lot size) of gross land
area.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 4.5.2; Ord. of 11-13-2000, § 4.5.2.2; Amend. of 3-7-2005;
Amend. of 8-3-2020)
   Cross reference—Environment,
Ch. 12.
Sec. 14-104. - Interstate highway interchange district (IHI).
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of the regulations of the Interstate Highway
Interchange District (IHI) are to provide for the orderly development of
commercial and service centers. Businesses in this district are intended to
serve the daily conveniences and personal service needs of an immediate,
countywide and regional area.
   (b)   Applicability. Interstate districts shall be defined as a 6,000-foot
circle, having a radius of 3,000 feet, measured from the center point of the
interchanges along I-40 and I-95.
   (c)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Access road means a public or private one-way or two-way road for ingress
and/or egress. Such access roads may be of various types including frontage
roads, rear access roads, and cul-de-sac. This definition includes secondary
roads but does not include driveways.
   Interstate highway means any section of a highway that is part of the
national system of interstate and defense highways.
   (d)   Regulation of uses, permitted uses. See section
14-90 for table of permitted uses as a principal use in the interstate highway
interchange district. In addition to the uses permitted within the interstate
highway interchange are the permitted uses within the underlying district.
   (1)   Additional specifications. 
      a.   Accessory uses and structures are permitted when located on the same
lot as the principal use, within the zoned area.
   (2)   Alternative energy systems. Provisions of sections
14-121 through
14-123 shall apply.
   (e)   Conditional zoning districts. For the interstate highway interchange
district, a parallel conditional zoning district shall be authorized for
establishment, pursuant to G.S. 160D-703. See section
14-90 for table of uses as a special use in the interstate highway interchange
special use district. Uses listed as a special use district in the underlying
zoning district are permitted as a special use in the interstate highway
interchange special use district:
   (1)   Additional specifications. 
      a.   Accessory uses and structures are permitted when located on the same
lot as the principal use, within the zoned area.
      b.   Outdoor storage must be enclosed by an eight-foot fence; fencing
must be opaque or sufficiently screened.
      c.   Automobile/vehicle junkyards and scrap metal operations shall
enclose all storage area by an opaque fence or wall at least ten feet in height
   (f)   Minimum building setback requirements. 
   (1)   The minimum building setback in the interstate highway interchange
district shall be as follows:
      a.   From any street or access road right-of-way, 30 feet. This street
setback requirement applies to all accessory structures, including gasoline
pumps, underground tanks, canopies and other similar structures.
      b.   From interior lot line adjoining nonresidential property, ten feet.
      c.   From interior lot line adjoining residential property, 50 feet.
      d.   Parking and loading uses shall not be permitted within 50 feet from
the right-of-way line of a street or highway or within 20 feet of any interior
lot line.
      e.   From any access easement, 15 feet.
   (g)   Maximum building height requirement. The maximum building height for a
building shall be:
   (1)   Adjacent to a residential zoning district shall be 40 feet.
   (2)   Adjacent to a nonresidential zoning district, no height restrictions.
   (h)   Landscaping requirements. The county encourages the property owner or
developer to initiate a design for proposed development that preserves and/or
enhances existing vegetation on the property, especially within required buffer
areas so that the proposed development will be visually in harmony with natural
forest vegetation along interstate highways and its access roads.
   (i)   Buffering requirements. All development within the interstate highway
interchange district shall conform to the landscaping standards of the design
manual and the following:
   (1)   Landscaping. All property lines shall either be landscaped or be left
in a naturally wooded state in accordance with the design manual; and
   (2)   Screening and fencing. The planning board or board of commissioners,
as appropriate, may require additional screening, fencing or natural buffer
area to be provided in all or any part of those tracts where there is outdoor
storage, outdoor recreation, accessory building, parking, or where any portion
of a use or accessory use may be visible from the interstate highway or any
streets within the interstate highway interchange district.
   (j)   Access and circulation. All development within the interstate highway
interchange district shall conform to the following requirements:
   (1)   Principal vehicular access points to a development shall be located
and designed to encourage smooth traffic flow and minimize hazard to vehicular
traffic, pedestrian and bicycle traffic. Accommodation for controlled turning
movements into and out of a development and improvements to the approach street
should be considered where existing or anticipated heavy traffic flows indicate
need.
   (2)   Safe and convenient vehicular access shall be provided for emergency,
service and school bus vehicles, where appropriate.
   (3)   Where a lot or tract abuts an arterial or collector road, no ingress
or egress shall be allowed from the arterial or collector road if an
alternative access is possible from a street of lower classification.
   (k)   Utilities and outdoor lighting. All utility lines in this district
shall be placed underground, with the exception of three-phase electrical
lines. All outdoor lighting shall be designed so that the lighting shall be
shielded in such a manner that no direct glare from the light source can be
seen from an interstate highway and its approach streets.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 4.5.3; Ord. of 7-9-2001; Amend. of 3-8-2004; Amend. of 7-
12-04, § B); Amend. of 12-06-2010; Amend. of 9-6-2011; Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-105. - Water supply watershed protection district (WSW).
   (a)   Authority. The state general assembly has, in G.S. 143-214.5 and G.S.
ch. 160D, delegated the responsibility and authority to local governmental
units to establish water supply watershed protection programs, to regulate land
use and development within water supply watersheds and to adopt regulations
designed to promote the public health, safety and general welfare of its
citizenry.
   (b)   Intent. The water supply watershed protection district (WSW) is to
provide, in designated watershed areas, a higher level of control from
activities and situations that could degrade the quality of the water entering
the Neuse River, as identified in the watershed protection management plan.
   (c)   Applicability. The provisions of this chapter shall apply within the
area designated as a public water supply watershed protection district as
defined and established on the map entitled, "Water Supply Watershed Protection
District of Johnston County, North Carolina" on the official zoning atlas of
the county. Land use and development within this district must comply with all
the requirements of this chapter and the underlying zoning district.
   (d)   Exceptions to applicability. The watershed protection requirements of
this section shall not apply to development established prior to January 3,
1994, the date of adoption by the Johnston County Board of Commissioners,
except as provided in subsection (g) of this section. Furthermore, these
requirements shall not apply to a single-family detached dwelling unit or an
accessory dwelling unit already developed on a lot.
   (e)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Best management practices means a structural or nonstructural management-
based practice used singularly or in combination to reduce nonpoint source
inputs to receiving waters in order to achieve water quality protection goals.
   Buffer means an area of natural or planted vegetation through which
stormwater runoff flows in a diffused manner so that the runoff does not become
channelized and which provides for infiltration of the runoff and filtering of
pollutants. The buffer is measured from the top of the bank of each side of
streams or rivers.
   Built-upon area includes that portion of a development project that is
covered by impervious or partially impervious cover including buildings,
pavement, gravel roads, recreation facilities (e.g., tennis courts), etc.
(Note: Wooden slated decks are considered pervious.)
   Critical area means the area that drains one-half mile to a water supply, as
measured from the normal pool elevation of reservoirs, or the area that drains
one-half mile to a river intake.
   Development means any land-disturbing activity which adds to or changes the
amount of impervious or partially impervious cover on a land area or which
otherwise decreases the infiltration of precipitation into the soil.
   Discharging landfill means a landfill which discharges treated leachate and
which requires a National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
permit.
   Industrial development means any nonresidential development that requires an
NPDES permit for an industrial discharge and/or requires the use or storage of
any hazardous material for the purpose of manufacturing, assembling, finishing,
cleaning or developing a product or commodity.
   Major variance means a variance from the minimum statewide watershed
protection rules that results in any one of the following:
   (1)   The relaxation, by a factor of ten percent or greater, of any
management requirement under the low-density option;
   (2)   Any variation in the design, maintenance or operation requirements of
a wet detention pond or other approved stormwater management system.
   Minor variance means the relaxation, by a factor of up to ten percent, of
any management requirement under the low-density option.
   Protected area means the area adjoining and upstream of the critical area in
which protection measures are required. The boundaries of the protected area
are defined as extending ten miles upstream and draining to water supply or to
the ridge line of the watershed whichever comes first.
   (f)   Permits. 
   (1)   Watershed protection permit. 
      a.   Except where provided for elsewhere in this article, no building or
built-upon area shall be erected, moved, enlarged or structurally altered, nor
shall any building permit be issued nor shall any change in the use of any
building or land be made until a watershed protection permit has been issued.
No watershed protection permit shall be issued except in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter. This permit shall be filed with the county planning
department and shall expire at the end of 12 months if not used.
      b.   Watershed protection permit applications shall be filed with the
county planning department. The application shall include a completed
application form and supporting documentation deemed necessary by the
department.
   (2)   Building permit required. Except where provided elsewhere in this
article, no building permit required under the state building code shall be
issued for any activity for which a watershed permit is required until such
permit has been issued.
   (3)   Watershed occupancy permit. 
      a.   Prior to the occupancy or use of a building erected, altered or
moved and/or prior to the change of use of any building or land, the building
inspections department shall issue a watershed protection occupancy permit
certifying that all requirements of this article have been met.
      b.   If the watershed protection occupancy permit is denied, the planning
director shall notify the applicant in writing stating the reasons for denial.
   (g)   Existing development; nonconformities. Any existing development, as
defined in this article, may be continued and maintained subject to the
provisions provided in this article. Expansions to structures classified as
existing development prior to January 1, 1994, must meet the requirements of
this article; however, the built-upon area of the existing development is not
required to be included in the density calculations.
   (h)   Vacant lots. This category consists of vacant lots for which plats or
deeds have been recorded in the office of the register of deeds of the county.
Lots may be used for any of the uses allowed in the watershed area in which it
is located, provided they can meet the minimum lot size requirements of this
article, or have been approved prior to the adoption of this article.
   (i)   Occupied lots. This category consists of lots occupied for residential
purposes at the time of the adoption of the ordinance from which this article
is derived. These lots may continue to be used provided that whenever two or
more adjoining lots of record, one of which is occupied, are in single
ownership at any time after the adoption of the ordinance from which this
article is derived, and such lots individually or together have less area than
the minimum requirements for residential purposes specified in this chapter,
such lots shall be combined to create lots which meet the minimum size
requirements or which minimize the degree of nonconformity.
   (j)   Industrial use of land. This category consists of existing industrial
uses and/or the storage of hazardous or toxic materials where a spill
containment plan is not implemented and where such use of the land is not
permitted to be established in the watershed area. Such existing uses may be
continued except as provided for in subsection (k)(2) of this section.
   (k)   Permitted uses. 
   (1)   The following uses are permitted as a principal use in the watershed
protection district provided such uses are also permitted in the underlying
zoning district and providing that the requirements stated in this section and
this article.
      a.   Critical area. 
         1.   Agriculture, subject to the provisions of the Food Security Act
of 1985 and the Food, Agricultural, Conservation and Trade Act of 1990.
         2.   Silviculture, using BMPs required to implement the provisions of
the Forest Practices Guidelines Related to Water Quality (15 NCAC
II.6101.0209).
         3.   Residential development (one dwelling unit per acre, 40,000
square feet minimum lot size).
         4.   Nonresidential development, excluding landfills and sites for
land application of residuals or petroleum contaminated soils or septage,
mining and quarrying activities and the storage of toxic and hazardous
materials unless a spill containment plan is implemented.
      b.   Protected area. 
         1.   Agriculture, subject to the provisions of the Food Security Act
of 1985 and the Food, Agricultural, Conservation and Trade Act of 1990.
         2.   Silviculture, using BMPs required to implement the provisions of
the Forest Practices Guidelines Related to Water Quality (15 NCAC
II.6101.0209).
         3.   Residential development (one dwelling unit per acre, 40,000
square feet minimum lot size).
         4.   Nonresidential development.
   (2)   No activity, situation, structure or land use shall be allowed within
the watershed which poses a threat to water quality and the public health,
safety and welfare. Such conditions may arise from inadequate on-site sewer
systems which utilize ground absorption; inadequate sedimentation and erosion
control measures; the improper storage or disposal of junk, trash or other
refuse within a buffer area; the absence or improper implementation of a spill
containment plan for toxic and hazardous materials; the improper management of
stormwater runoff; or any situation found to pose a threat to water quality.
   (l)   Minimum land area. The minimum land area for a single-family dwelling
located in the water supply watershed protection district shall be:
   (1)   For lots located in an AR district, or in a planned unit development,
if connected to the county water and sewer system, two units per acre maximum;
and
   (2)   For lots with individual wells and/or septic tanks, one unit per acre.
   (m)   Built-upon area. 
   (1)   Critical area. The maximum area to be built upon for all residential
development not listed in subsection (l) of this section and nonresidential
development shall be allowed a maximum of 24 percent built-upon.
   (2)   Protected area. The maximum area to be built upon for all residential
development not listed in subsection (l) of this section and nonresidential
development shall be allowed a maximum of 24 percent built-upon area with a
curb and gutter roadway system, or a maximum of 36 percent built-upon area
without a curb and gutter roadway system or when utilizing the 10/70 provision
up to 70 percent built-upon area with a county approved best management
practice.
   (3)   Conflicts. Where built-upon area limits specified in this section
conflict with the Johnston County Stormwater Ordinance, the most stringent
limit shall apply.
   (n)   Landscaped buffer area required. 
   (1)   Vegetative buffer. A minimum 50-foot vegetative buffer for development
activities is required along all perennial and intermittent streams, as
indicated on the most recent versions of USGS 1:24,000 (7.5 minute) quadrangle
topography maps. New development utilizing the 10/70 option shall require a
100-foot vegetative buffer along all perennial streams, otherwise, a 50-foot-
wide vegetative buffer shall be maintained along both sides of all perennial
and intermittent streams, rivers or other water bodies as required by the Neuse
River Basin: Nutrient Sensitive Waters Management Strategy: Protection and
Maintenance of Riparian Buffers, Section 3(a-b). The buffer shall be measured
from the top of the bank of such streams.
   Determinations of exemption (as noted in 15A NCAC 2B.0233 Neuse River Basin:
Nutrient Sensitive Waters Management Strategy: Protection and Maintenance of
Riparian Buffers, Section 3 (a-b): shall be made by NCDENR Division of Water
Quality.
   (2)   No development in buffer; exceptions. No new development shall be
allowed in the required vegetative buffer except for water dependent structures
and other structures such as flag poles, signs and security lights which result
in only diminutive increases in impervious area, and public works projects such
as road crossings and greenways where no practical alternative exists. These
activities should:
      a.   Minimize built-upon surface area;
      b.   Direct runoff away from the surface waters; and
      c.   Maximize the utilization of best management practices for stormwater
control and management.
   (o)   Establishment of the watershed review board. The Johnston County Board
of Adjustment shall serve as the watershed review board.
   (p)   Variance. A petition to the board of adjustment, requesting a variance
from the standards of the water supply watershed protection district shall
comply with the procedures and standards of the development regulations, with
the following exceptions:
   (1)   Major and minor variances are differentiated by definition as follows:
      a.   Minor variances shall include petitions for the reduction of any
standard of the overlay district by a factor of less than ten percent, except
residential density or built-upon regulations.
      b.   Major variances shall include petitions for the reduction of any
standard of the overlay district by a factor of more than ten percent; and
petitions to increase residential density or built-upon regulations.
      c.   The watershed administrator shall provide a description of each
project receiving a variance and the reasons for granting the variance shall be
submitted for each calendar year to the NCDENR Division of Water Quality on or
before January 1 of the following year.
   (2)   Major variances shall comply with the procedures and standards of the
zoning regulations except that:
      a.   A decision by the board of adjustment to deny a major variance may
be appealed to the superior court by an aggrieved party. Such appeal shall be
in the nature of certiorari and must be filled within 30 days from the filing
of the decision in the office of the planning department or the delivery of the
notice required in section
14-254, whichever is greater.
      b.   A decision by the board of adjustment to approve a major variance
shall be advisory only. The watershed administrator shall within 30 days of the
board's decision, forward a record of the board of adjustment hearing,
findings, and conclusions to the state environmental management commission for
final decision. The preliminary record of the hearing shall include:
         1.   The variance application;
         2.   The hearing notices;
         3.   The evidence presented;
         4.   Motions, offers of proof, objections to evidence, and rulings on
them;
         5.   Proposed findings and expectations;
         6.   The proposed decision, including all conditions proposed to be
added to the permit.
   (3)   The board of adjustment may advise approval of a major variance
petition upon satisfying the finding that significant community economic or
social benefit would be derived from the granting of the variance.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 4.5.4; Ord. of 12-109-2001; Ord. of 1-13-2004; Amend. of
01-04-2010(2); Amend. of 8-3-2020; Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-106. - Municipal transition district (MTD).
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of the municipal transition district (MTD) is to
provide regulations that protect and preserve the natural scenic beauty of the
county while allowing the orderly development of land that requires public
municipal water and sewer services to be located near municipalities. It is the
intent of these regulations that development in the municipal transition
district shall be in harmony with local development plans, site regulations and
specifications, and shall preserve to the extent possible, the natural beauty
and character of the district and the county as a whole.
   (b)   Applicability. Municipal transition districts shall be appropriately
located and adjacent to the counties municipalities and be so defined as that
area that can be reasonably serviced by the future extension of the
municipalities water and sewer systems. The boundaries of the municipal
transition district are established as shown on the official zoning atlas which
is on file and available in the county offices.
   (c)   Permitted uses. 
   (1)   In addition to the uses permitted in the underlying zoning district,
the following uses are permitted as a principal use in the municipal transition
district:
      a.   Residential development at a density of 2.5 dwelling units per acre
of gross land area.
      b.   Residential development at a density of 4.0 dwelling units per acre
of gross land area.
   (2)   The following standards shall apply:
      a.   All dwelling units must be connected to a county or municipal water
supply and sanitary sewer system, or an alternative sanitary sewer system
acceptable to the county.
      b.   All 4.0 units per acre developments must be located on an arterial
or collector street as identified in the county design manual.
      c.   Minimum building setback requirements:
         1.   The minimum building setback for a 2.5 unit per acre development
shall be 25 feet from any street right-of-way and ten feet from any interior
lot line.
         2.   The minimum building setback for a 4.0 unit per acre development
shall be five feet from any street right-of-way and interior lot line.
         3.   The minimum building setback from any access easement shall be 15
feet.
   (3)   A zero lot line is allowed whereby a structure is allowed with no
setback from one interior lot line as long as the minimum building setback for
the corresponding opposite interior lot line is a minimum of 20 feet for a 2.5
unit per acre development and ten feet for a 4.0 unit per acre development.
   (d)   Provision of common open space or recreation area requirements. 
   (1)   Minimum common open space or recreation area. All residential
development within the municipal transition district shall provide or dedicate
open space or recreation areas suitable for the resident's common passive
recreational use, or make a payment in lieu of provision or dedication. The
total open space or recreation land area shall be at least ten percent of the
total gross land area of the development. A 60-foot buffer area shall be
provided along the site's frontage with an arterial or collector road as
defined in the county design manual; this buffer area may be counted as part of
the developments common open space requirement. If applicable, all wetlands
and/or riparian buffer areas shall be designated as common open space. In
developments containing wetlands and/or riparian buffer areas, at least one-
half of the ten percent common open space dedication shall be provided outside
of wetlands and/or riparian buffer areas.
   (2)   Method of provision or dedication. Land provided or dedicated for open
space or recreation purposes shall be designated on a final plat duly recorded
with the county register of deeds. Such open space land can be dedicated or
deeded to an appropriate public body, land trust, or nonprofit, or for-profit
organization established for the purpose of land conservation or recreational
purposes; or create a neighborhood or homeowners' association for the
continuing maintenance and control of common open space or recreation area.
   (3)   Payments in lieu of provision or dedication. In lieu of providing or
dedicating common open space or recreation area required pursuant to this
section, a developer of a subdivision or planned development may choose to make
a payment to the county whereby the county may acquire common open space land.
The county shall use such payment only for the acquisition or development of
open space, recreation, or park sites to serve residents of the county. The
amount of the payment shall be the product of the total number of lots or
dwelling units proposed times $800.00. The developer shall make the payment
before approval of a final plat or issuance of a land use permit; provided
however, that the planning director may allow phasing of payments consistent
with the approved phasing of the development.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 4.5.5; Ord. of 7-9-2001; Amend of 7-12-04, § B))
Sec. 14-107. - Amendments to overlay district boundaries.
   Amendments to the boundary of an overlay district shall be made consistent
with article XI, division 4 of this chapter. Requests to expand an existing
overlay district boundary shall only be considered where such request abuts,
adjoins, or is contiguous to, the established overlay district boundary.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 4.6)
Secs. 14-108—14-114. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - ALTERNATIVE ENERGY
   Sec.
14-115. - Intent.
   Sec.
14-116. - Administration.
   Sec.
14-117. - Definitions.
   Sec.
14-118. - Solar energy—As a residential and agricultural accessory.
   Sec.
14-119. - Wind energy systems—As a residential and agricultural accessory.
   Sec.
14-120. - Biofuels—As an agricultural accessory.
   Sec.
14-121. - Solar energy—As a commercial accessory.
   Sec.
14-122. - Wind energy systems—as a commercial accessory.
   Sec.
14-123. - Solar and wind energy systems—As a utility facility.
   Sec.
14-124. - Biofuels—For commercial production.
   Secs. 14-125—14-130. - Reserved.
Sec. 14-115. - Intent.
   The intent of this division is to accommodate the need of [for] alternative
energy source power generation systems while protecting the public's health,
safety, and welfare.
(Amend. of 9-6-2011)
Sec. 14-116. - Administration.
   A permit is required prior to the installation of any facility or component.
A special use permit is required for dimensional values other than those
permitted for this division.
(Amend. of 9-6-2011)
Sec. 14-117. - Definitions.
   (a)   Solar energy. 
   Solar energy generation facility. An electric generating facility whose main
purpose is to supply utility scale electricity, consisting of one or more
series of solar collectors, for off-site use, public or private. Also known as
solar farms.
   Solar collector. A device, structure or a part of a device or structure for
which the primary purpose is to transform solar radiant energy into thermal,
mechanical, chemical, or electrical energy.
   Solar collector surface. Any part of a solar collector that absorbs solar
energy for use in the collector's energy transformation process. Collector
surface does not include frames, supports and mounting hardware.
   Solar energy system. A device the purpose of which is to provide for the
collection, storage, and distribution of solar energy for space heating or
cooling, electricity generating, or water heating.
   Solar mounting devices. Devices that allow the mounting of a solar collector
onto a roof surface or the ground.
   (b)   Wind energy. 
   Wind energy generation facility. An electric generating facility whose main
purpose is to supply utility scale electricity, consisting of one or more wind
turbines, for off-site use, public or private. Also known as wind farms.
   Wind energy system. A single system designed to supplement other electricity
sources as an accessory use to existing buildings or facilities, wherein the
power generated is used primarily for onsite consumption. A small wind energy
system consists of a single wind turbine, blades or similar devices, a tower,
and associated control or conversion electronics.
   System height. The height above average ground height to the top of the wind
generator, not to include generator blades.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/db6778b5e0673d0c2647a50384e5695dd78152dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1107.jpg]
 
   Wind generator. A mechanical device used to convert wind into electricity.
This definition includes the turbine generator and rotational blades or similar
attachments, unless otherwise noted.
   (c)   Biofuels. 
   Biofuels. A wide variety of fuels produced from organic sources. These fuels
may also be blended with other petroleum-based fuels. The most common biofuels
are, but are not limited to, biodiesel and ethanol.
(Amend. of 9-6-2011)
Sec. 14-118. - Solar energy—As a residential and agricultural accessory.
   (a)   The provisions of this section shall be applicable to sections:
   
14-75: Agricultural-Residential District;
   
14-76: Resort Residential District;
   
14-77: Residential-Mobile Home Park District;
   
14-257 (j), (k): Planned Developments District.
   (b)   Solar energy generation facilities shall not be permitted in these
districts.
   (c)   Solar energy systems shall be accessory to a dwelling or other
residential accessory structure.
   (1)   The solar collector surface shall be limited to 0.5 percent of the
total gross area of the lot, with at least 125 square feet allowed and no more
the 500 square feet when ground-mounted; the solar mounting device shall be
limited to no more than 12 feet in height. Ground-mounted systems shall meet
the minimum setback distances for the district, be located no closer to the
road right-of-way than the front of the principal structure, and be screened
from adjacent properties and streets.
   (2)   The use of solar collectors surface shall be limited to no more than
1,000 square feet when roof-mounted; the solar mounting device shall be limited
to no more than four feet in height. Roof-mounted systems shall be engineered
as not to exceed structural capacity of the roof.
   (3)   Wall-mounted units shall be limited to 120 square feet, and project no
more than 24 inches from the wall surface.
   (d)   Solar energy systems shall be accessory to an agricultural building or
other bona fide farming operations.
   (1)   The use of solar collectors shall be limited for the private use of
bona fide farming operations.
   (2)   Ground-mounted systems shall be set back 20 feet from interior
property lines and 50 feet from the right-of-way, and be screened from adjacent
properties and streets.
(Amend. of 9-6-2011)
Sec. 14-119. - Wind energy systems—As a residential and agricultural accessory.
   (a)   The provisions of this section shall be applicable to sections:
   
14-75: Agricultural-Residential District;
   
14-76: Resort Residential District;
   
14-77: Residential-Mobile Home Park District;
   
14-257 (j), (k): Planned Developments District.
   (b)   Wind energy generation facilities shall not be permitted in these
districts.
   (c)   Wind energy systems shall be accessory to a dwelling or other
residential accessory structure, and is designed to supplement other
electricity sources.
   (1)   The wind energy system shall have a system height of no greater than
40 feet in height.
   (2)   There shall be no more than two systems per parcel.
   (3)   The system's setback shall be equal to the height of the tower from
all internal property and right-of-way lines; guy wires shall meet the minimum
setback distances for the district.
   (4)   Ground-mounted equipment shall meet the minimum setback distances for
the district.
   (5)   Systems may be attached to the dwelling or other structures; these
systems must meet the system setback and height limitations. Systems attached
to the structure may meet the minimum building setback distances for the
district in lieu of the system setback.
   (6)   Systems shall not generate any noise that is greater than other common
residential ambient noises (such as an HVAC unit).
   (d)   Wind energy systems shall be accessory to an agricultural building or
other bona fide farming operations.
   (1)   The wind energy system shall be limited to the private use of the bona
fide farming operation and have a system height of no greater than 40 feet in
height.
   (2)   There shall be no more than five systems per farm.
   (3)   The system's setback shall be equal to the height of the tower from
all internal property and right-of-way lines; guy wires shall meet the minimum
setback distances for the district.
   (4)   Ground-mounted equipment shall meet the minimum setback distances for
the district.
   (5)   Systems may be attached to the dwelling or other structures. These
systems must meet the system setback and height limitations. Systems attached
to the structure may meet the minimum building setback distances for the
district in lieu of the system setback.
(Amend. of 9-6-2011)
Sec. 14-120. - Biofuels—As an agricultural accessory.
   (a)   The provisions of this section shall be applicable to sections:
   
14-75: Agricultural-Residential District.
   (b)   Production of biofuels shall not be permitted as a residential
accessory use.
   (c)   Production of all biofuels shall be limited to an accessory use for
bona fide farming operations. These fuels shall be for the private use of the
producer's bona fide farming operations only.
   (d)   Reserved.
   (e)   Storage tanks shall have secondary containment; dual containment tanks
or an above ground catch basin capable of containing 100 percent [of] the tank
volume.
   (f)   Production facilities and storage tanks must be set back 100 feet from
all property lines.
   (g)   Production facilities and storage tanks must be set back 100 feet from
all dwellings.
   (h)   Disposal of all waste material must be in accordance with all state
and federal laws.
(Amend. of 9-6-2011)
Sec. 14-121. - Solar energy—As a commercial accessory.
   (a)   The provisions of this section shall be applicable to sections:
   
14-78: Office and Institutional District;
   
14-79: Neighborhood Business District;
   
14-80: Community Business District;
   
14-81: General Business District;
   
14-82: Industrial-1;
   
14-104: Interstate Highway Interchange District.
   (b)   Solar energy generation facilities shall not be permitted in these
districts.
   (c)   Solar energy systems shall be accessory to a commercial structure.
   (1)   The solar collector surface shall be limited to 15 percent [of] the
gross floor area of the commercial structure, not to exceed 5,000 square feet
when ground-mounted; the solar mounting device shall be limited to no more than
50 percent [of] the height of the structure. Ground-mounted systems shall meet
the minimum setback distances for the district and be screened from adjacent
properties and streets.
   (2)   The solar collector surface shall not be limited in area when roof-
mounted; the solar mounting device shall be limited to no more than 50 percent
[of] the height of the structure. Roof-mounted systems shall be engineered as
not exceed to structural capacity of the roof.
   (3)   Wall-mounted units shall be limited to 200 square feet and project no
more than 24 inches from the wall surface.
(Amend. of 9-6-2011)
Sec. 14-122. - Wind energy systems—as a commercial accessory.
   (a)   The provisions of this section shall be applicable to sections:
   
14-78: Office and Institutional District;
   
14-79: Neighborhood Business District;
   
14-80: Community Business District;
   
14-81: General Business District;
   
14-82: Industrial-1;
   
14-104: Interstate Highway Interchange District.
   (b)   Wind energy generation facilities shall not be permitted in these
districts.
   (c)   Wind energy systems greater than 40 feet shall require a special use
permit in these districts. The maximum height shall be 120 feet.
   (d)   Wind energy systems shall be accessory to a commercial structure, and
is designed to supplement other electricity sources.
   (1)   The wind energy system shall have a system height of no greater than
50 feet in height.
   (2)   There shall be limited to no more than one system per acre.
   (3)   The system's setback shall be equal to the height of the tower from
all internal property and right-of-way lines; guy wires shall meet the minimum
setback distances for the district.
   (4)   Ground-mounted equipment shall meet the minimum setback distances for
the district.
   (5)   Systems may be attached to the dwelling or other structures. These
systems must meet the system setback and height limitations. Systems attached
to the structure may meet the minimum building setback distances for the
district in lieu of the system setback.
(Amend. of 9-6-2011)
Sec. 14-123. - Solar and wind energy systems—As a utility facility.
   (a)   The provisions of this section shall be applicable to sections:
   
14-83: Industrial-2.
   (b)   Solar and Wind Energy Generation Facilities shall require a Special
Use Permit in this district.
   (c)   Solar energy generation facilities.
   (1)   Solar mounting devices shall be set back at least 150 feet from all
property lines.
   (2)   Solar mounting devices shall be limited to no more than 12 feet in
height.
   (3)   Ground-mounted equipment and accessory structures shall be set back at
least 150 feet from all property lines.
   (4)   Site shall be enclosed by a six foot fence topped with barbwire.
   (5)   Site will be enclosed by a landscape buffer consisting of ten large
evergreen trees and ten evergreen shrubs every 100 linear feet. Existing
vegetation may be used if equal or more intense.
      a.   Evergreen trees shall be at least four feet high at planting.
Adjacent to all residential dwellings, trees shall be planted at a minimum of
six feet tall at grade or a minimum of four feet tall on top of a minimum two
foot tall berm.
      b.   Additional landscaping may be required depending on the intensity of
adjacent residential uses.
   (6)   Site will be decommissioned within 180 days of a determination by the
Zoning Administrator that the facility is no longer being operated, maintained,
or used in an operable state of repair.
   (d)   Wind energy generation facilities.
   (1)   The wind energy system shall have a system height of no greater than
120 feet in height.
   (2)   Systems shall be set back the height of the system (to include the tip
of the wind generator blade when at its highest point) plus ten percent from
all internal property and right-of-way lines; guy wires shall meet the minimum
setback distances for the district.
   (3)   Ground-mounted equipment and accessory structures shall be set back at
least 20 feet from all property lines.
(Amend. of 9-6-2011; Amend. of 9-1-2015)
Sec. 14-124. - Biofuels—For commercial production.
   (a)   The provisions of this section shall be applicable to sections:
   
14-83: Industrial-2.
   (b)   Production of biofuels for sales/distribution and as a commercial
accessory shall be permitted in this district.
   (c)   Storage tanks shall have secondary containment, dual containment tanks
or an approved above-ground catch basin capable of containing 110 percent [of]
the tank volume.
   (d)   Production facilities must be set back 100 feet from all property
lines.
   (e)   Disposal of all waste material must be in accordance with all state
and federal laws.
(Amend. of 9-6-2011)
Secs. 14-125—14-130. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - SUBDIVISIONS [12] 
   (12) Cross reference—Any ordinance or resolution dedicating or accepting any
subdivision plat saved from repeal, §
1-9(10); zoning districts, §
14-51 et seq.; flood damage prevention, §
14-421 et seq.; roads and other public places,
ch. 18; utilities,
ch. 24.
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY
   Sec.
14-131. - Intent.
   Sec.
14-132. - Authority and jurisdiction.
   Sec.
14-133. - Applicability.
   Sec.
14-134. - Definitions.
   Secs. 14-135—14-150. - Reserved.
Sec. 14-131. - Intent.
   It is the intent of this article to provide an orderly process for division
of land into lots or parcels for the purpose of sale and/or building
development by property owners. It is also this article's intent to ensure that
subdivided lots or parcels can be used safely to build on without danger to the
health, safety, and general welfare of both the prospective or future owners in
the county's community, and that subdivisions are provided with and provide for
adequate and efficient access and coordination of streets, water and/or sewage,
parks, schools, playgrounds and other public requirements and facilities where
appropriate.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 5.1; Amend. of 6-1-2009(2))
Sec. 14-132. - Authority and jurisdiction.
   (a)   The regulations of this article are adopted under the authority of
G.S. ch. 160D article 8 which authorizes the county to regulate the subdivision
of land.
   (b)   The regulations of this article shall govern each and every
subdivision of land within the county, except those lands lying within the
extraterritorial planning jurisdiction of any municipality, unless such
municipality formally requests that the county enforce these regulations within
that municipal jurisdiction. Any municipal governing body may, upon one year's
written notice, withdraw its approval of the county subdivision regulations,
and those regulations shall have no further effect within the municipal
jurisdiction.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 5.2; Amend. of 6-1-2009(2); Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-133. - Applicability.
   (a)   No land shall be subdivided, platted, or recorded, nor shall
subdivided lots or parcels be sold, offered for sale, used, or occupied unless
and until a final plat of the subdivision has been approved under this article
and has been recorded by the county register of deeds. The subdivision of land
by use of metes and bounds descriptions in instruments of transfer is
prohibited. No lot or parcel resulting from a division of land excluded from
the definition of subdivision in section 14-134 shall be sold, offered for
sale, used, or occupied until the planning director certifies that such
division of land falls within one of the exclusions listed in the definition of
subdivision. No plat of any division of land within the county's planning
jurisdiction shall be filed or recorded by the county register of deeds unless
it contains the planning director's certification that the division of land has
been approved under, or is not subject to, this article.
   (b)   Permit choice. If a land development regulation is amended by the
board of commissioners between the time a development permit application was
submitted and a development permit decision is made, the development permit
applicant may choose which adopted version of the rule or ordinance will apply
to the permit and use of the building, structure, or land indicated on the
permit application in the manner established in G.S. 143-755.
   (1)   If the development permit applicant chooses the version of the rule or
ordinance applicable at the time of the permit application, the development
permit applicant shall not be required to await the outcome of the amendment to
the rule, map, or ordinance prior to acting on the development permit.
   (2)   If a permit application is placed on hold at the request of the
applicant for a period of six consecutive months or more, or the applicant
fails to respond to comments or provide additional information reasonably
requested by the county or state government for a period of six consecutive
months or more, the application review shall be discontinued and the
development regulations in effect at the time permit processing is resumed
shall be applied to the application.
   (3)   Subject to G.S. 160D-108(d), where multiple local development permits
are required to complete a development project, the development permit
applicant may choose the version of each of the local land development
regulations applicable to the project upon submittal of the application for the
initial development permit. This provision is applicable only for those
subsequent development permit applications filed within 18 months of the date
following the approval of an initial permit. For purposes of the vesting
protections of this subsection, an erosion and sedimentation control permit or
a sign permit is not an initial development permit.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 5.4; Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-134. - Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Construction plat means a plan with supporting data for a proposed
subdivision, developed for the purpose of establishing the layout and provision
of roads and utilities.
   Flag lot means an irregularly shaped lot where the buildable portion of the
lot is connected to its street frontage by an arm, or flagpole, of the lot.
   Flood hazard boundary map means the official map of a community on which the
Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special
flood hazard and the risk management zones applicable to the county.
   Official plans means any plans officially adopted by the board of
commissioners as a guide for the development of the county consisting of maps,
charts, and texts.
   Open space and common open space and recreation area mean any space or area
characterized by great natural scenic beauty or whose openness, natural
condition, or present state of use, if retained, would enhance the present or
potential value of abutting or surrounding development, or would maintain or
enhance the conservation of natural or scenic resources; or any undeveloped or
predominately undeveloped land that has value for one or more of the following
purposes:
   (1)   Park and recreational uses;
   (2)   Conservation of land and other natural resources; or
   (3)   Historic or scenic purposes.
   Passive open space or recreation areas include scenic resources, any
undeveloped or predominately undeveloped land used for informal walking trails,
picnic areas or similar uses. Active recreation areas include playfields, tot
lots, tennis courts, swimming pools and similar active play uses. The following
land uses or land areas cannot be used to meet open space requirements of this
chapter:
   (1)   Roads, road rights-of-way, driveways, or parking areas.
   (2)   Open areas within individual subdivision lots.
   (3)   Small, narrow strips of land, or other unusual land configurations
that are not consistent with the objectives of this chapter.
   Public sewer system means any sewer system whether operated publicly or
privately unless the sewer source is located on a lot and serves only that lot
in accordance with G.S. 130A-311-343.
   Public water system means any water system whether operated publicly or
privately unless that water source is located on a lot and serves only that lot
in accordance with G.S. 130A-311-343.
   Subdivider means any person who subdivides or develops any land deemed to be
a subdivision as defined in this section.
   Subdivision means any division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose of sale or building
development, whether immediate or future. It includes any division of land
involving the dedication of a new street or change in existing streets. The
following divisions of land are not included in this definition and are not
subject to this article:
   (1)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously subdivided
and recorded lots, where the total number of lots is not increased and the
resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards set forth in this article,
and the minimum gross lot size, minimum lot width and minimum street frontage
standards of this chapter;
   (2)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres in area,
where no public street right-of-way dedication or opening of streets is
involved;
   (3)   The public acquisition, by purchase, of strips of land for the purpose
of widening or opening of streets; or
   (4)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire land area is
no greater than two acres into more than three lots, where no street right-of-
way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to or exceed
the standards set forth in this article, and this chapter.
   In subsection (1), the phrase "previously subdivided and recorded" means
under a recorded plat or other instrument of transfer containing a metes and
bounds description if lots were created prior to the existence of applicable
subdivision regulations, or under a validly approved and recorded plat if such
lots were created after the existence of applicable subdivision regulations. In
subsections (2) and (4), the phrase "where no street right-of-way dedication is
involved" means that adequate access to such lot is provided by an approved
existing street (public or private).
   Subdivision, commercial, means the subdivision of an existing development on
a zoning lot or recorded parcel that consists of commercial and/or office uses.
Such a subdivision would create two or more individual lots plus land developed
and designated for the common use and benefit of the occupants/owners of the
individual commercial subdivision lots provided:
   (1)   That an entity is designated to be legally responsible for maintenance
and control of the common land areas;
   (2)   That the property has an approved site plan, valid for the
development, prior to application for commercial subdivision;
   (3)   That all parking areas, drive aisles, and open space if applicable,
shall be the common land area; and
   (4)   The individual lots within a commercial subdivision shall not be
required to meet the lot design standards of this chapter, providing the zoning
lot containing the commercial subdivision meets such standards.
   Minor and major subdivisions are subject to separate approval procedures.
   Subdivision, major, means any subdivision creating three or more lots. There
are two types of major subdivisions:
   (1)   Category 1. The creation of three to 20 lots. This is a two-step
procedure involving planning board preliminary plat approval and administrative
final plat approval.
   (2)   Category 2. The creation of 21 lots or more. This is a two-step
procedure involving planning board preliminary plat approval and administrative
final plat approval.
   Subdivision, minor, means a subdivision of a parent parcel, creating three
lots or less in the five years prior to submittal for review, in which:
   (1)   Does not involve any new dedication of public right-of-way to give
access to interior lots or parcels;
   (2)   Does not involve the extension of public water or sanitary sewage
lines;
   (3)   Will not limit or prevent the development of the remainder of the
parcel or of adjoining property; and
   (4)   Will not create any new or residual parcels which do not satisfy the
requirements of this article or other applicable local and state controls.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, §§ 5.3, 5.5, 5.6; Amend. of 6-1-2009(2); Amend. of 3-7-
2016; Amend. of - - )
   Cross reference—Definitions generally, §
1-2.
Secs. 14-135—14-150. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PROCEDURES FOR APPROVAL OF MINOR OR COMMERCIAL SUBDIVISIONS
   Sec.
14-151. - Application submittal requirements.
   Sec.
14-152. - Planning director action.
   Sec.
14-153. - Actions subsequent to decision.
   Sec.
14-154. - Appeal of decision.
   Sec.
14-155. - Standards for design of noncommercial lots in a minor subdivision.
   Secs. 14-156—14-170. - Reserved.
Sec. 14-151. - Application submittal requirements.
   Applications for minor or commercial subdivision approval, along with any
required fees, shall be filed with the planning department. The planning board
shall prescribe the form of applications as well as any other material that may
reasonably be required to determine compliance with this division. Minor or
commercial subdivision plats shall comply with the mapping requirements of
sections
14-230 and
14-231. The planning director shall not accept an application unless it
complies with such requirements. An incomplete application shall be returned to
the applicant, with a notation of its deficiencies.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 5.7.1; Amend. of 6-1-2009(2))
Sec. 14-152. - Planning director action.
   When an application for minor or commercial subdivision approval is
accepted, the planning director shall determine if the plat and application
conform with all applicable regulations. He shall take action on an application
based solely on the findings as to compliance with applicable regulations and
conditions. He shall approve; approve subject to conditions; deny; or refer to
the major subdivision approval process, if he finds it to be a major
subdivision proposal or if requested by the applicant. If the planning director
refers the request to a major subdivision review, an amended application shall
be submitted as required in division 3A of this article. The planning director
may impose reasonable conditions on his approval to ensure the subdivision
complies with the requirements of this division.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 5.7.2; Amend. of 6-1-2009(2); Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-153. - Actions subsequent to decision.
   The planning director shall notify the applicant of his decision on the
applicant's application for a minor or commercial subdivision approval and
shall file a copy of the decision in the planning department. The planning
director shall endorse his approval on a reproducible mylar original of the
final plat if he approves an application, or approves it with conditions. The
applicant shall record such plat with the county register of deeds. Approval of
any minor or commercial subdivision plat is void if it is not properly recorded
within 60 days after the planning director's endorsement of approval. The
planning director may extend this deadline provided the applicant has
demonstrated a good faith effort to comply with the deadline, but for reasons
beyond his control, fails to meet the requirements of the Register of Deeds for
recordation within that period. Plats shall conform to the drawing
specifications and certification requirements of sections
14-230 and
14-231.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 5.7.3; Amend. of 6-1-2009(2))
Sec. 14-154. - Appeal of decision.
   The planning director's decision on a minor or commercial subdivision
application may be appealed to the board of adjustment under article XI of this
chapter.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 5.7.4)
Sec. 14-155. - Standards for design of noncommercial lots in a minor
subdivision.
   Lots created pursuant to these provisions shall meet the following minimum
design standards:
   (a)   Minimum land area need to subdivide a lot is 1.37 acres based on a
1.45-unit-per-acre density (30,000 square feet minimum lot size) for lots
served by public water, or 2 acres based on one-unit-per-acre density for lots
served by well and septic (40,000 square feet minimum lot size). Minimum land
area needed to subdivide a lot in the Water Supply Watershed Protection
District or Environmentally Sensitive Area District is 2 acres based on 1 unit
per acre density (40,000 square feet minimum lot size) for lots served by
public water or well.
   (b)   Lots shall front on an existing public right-of-way, have access to an
existing access easement, or have an easement created to serve the lots.
(Amend. of 6-1-2009(2); Amend. of 8-3-2020; Amend. of 1-4-2021)
Secs. 14-156—14-170. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - PROCEDURES FOR APPROVAL OF A MAJOR SUBDIVISION
   Sec.
14-171. - Preliminary plat approval.
   Sec.
14-172. - Preliminary conference.
   Sec.
14-173. - Application submittal requirements.
   Sec.
14-174. - Traffic impact analysis (TIA) submittal requirement.
   Sec.
14-175. - Planning director's report.
   Sec.
14-176. - Planning board review and action.
   Sec.
14-177. - Expiration of preliminary plat approval.
   Sec.
14-178. - Appeal of decision.
   Secs. 14-179—14-200. - Reserved.
Sec. 14-171. - Preliminary plat approval.
   All major subdivisions must have a preliminary plat approval from the county
planning board prior to any final plats being recorded with the county register
of deeds.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 5.8.1)
Sec. 14-172. - Preliminary conference.
   Applicants proposing major subdivisions are encouraged to first consult with
the planning department to ensure that the applicant understands the
requirements of this division.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 5.8.2)
Sec. 14-173. - Application submittal requirements.
   Applications for major subdivision preliminary plat approval shall be filed
with the planning department. The planning board shall prescribe the form of
applications, as well as any other material it may reasonably require to
determine compliance with this division. The planning director shall not accept
an application unless it complies with such requirements, including written
confirmation that the applicant is the owner or agent having a valid ownership
interest, or a valid enforceable contract or option for an ownership interest
in the property involved. For the purposes of this chapter, an incomplete
application is considered to have not been submitted and shall be returned to
the applicant, with a notation of its deficiencies.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 5.8.3; Ord. of 5-13-2002; Amend. of 6-1-2009(2); Amend.
of - - )
Sec. 14-174. - Traffic impact analysis (TIA) submittal requirement.
   Traffic impact analysis required in accordance with Johnston County Land
Development Code section
14-366; the county's traffic consultant fee must be paid in full at the time
the major subdivision application is submitted, otherwise the application will
be considered incomplete.
(Amend. of 11-8-2004; Amend. of 6-1-2009(2))
Sec. 14-175. - Planning director's report.
   The planning director shall forward to the planning board an analysis of an
application for major subdivision preliminary plat approval and his
recommendation.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 5.8.4)
Sec. 14-176. - Planning board review and action.
   (a)   After receiving the planning director's report on an application for
major subdivision preliminary plat approval, the planning board shall consider
the application at its next available regularly scheduled meeting. All
interested parties shall be given the opportunity to speak and ask questions.
The planning board may place reasonable and fair limitations on comments,
arguments, and questions to avoid undue delay. The applicant shall bear the
burden of establishing that he is entitled to approval of the application.
   (b)   The planning board shall act on an application for major subdivision
preliminary plat approval after reviewing the application, the planning
director's report and public comment on the application. It shall base its
action on its findings as to conformity with all applicable regulations of this
article. Its action shall be one of the following: approval, approval subject
to conditions, tabled to address deficiencies identified by the planning board,
or denial. The planning board may impose reasonable conditions on its approval
to ensure compliance with applicable regulations.
   (c)   The planning director shall notify the applicant for major subdivision
preliminary plat approval in writing of the planning board's decision and shall
file a copy of the decision with the county's planning department.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, §§ 5.8.5—5.8.7; Amend. of 6-1-2009(2))
Sec. 14-177. - Expiration of preliminary plat approval.
   Preliminary plat approval, or reapproval, for a major subdivision shall be
effective for three years from the date of approval with no extension allowed
by the planning director or his/her representative. An extension may be
requested of the planning board for an additional three-year period. If a final
plat for all or a portion of the subdivision has not been recorded within three
years of the preliminary plat approval, the applicant must submit a new
application. The planning board may reapprove the application unless they
determine that paramount considerations of health, the general welfare, or
public safety exist.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 5.8.8; Amend. of 8-11-2003; Amend. of 6-1-2009(2))
Sec. 14-178. - Appeal of decision.
   The planning board's decision on an application for a preliminary plat
approval for a major subdivision may be appealed to superior court under
article XI of this chapter.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 5.8.9; Amend. of 6-1-2009(2) ; Amend. of 9-8-2009)
Secs. 14-179—14-200. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - FINAL PLAT APPROVAL
   Sec.
14-201. - Application requirements.
   Sec.
14-202. - Planning director's action.
   Sec.
14-203. - Actions subsequent to decision.
   Sec.
14-204. - Appeal of decision.
   Secs. 14-205—14-220. - Reserved.
Sec. 14-201. - Application requirements.
   Applications for final plat approval of subdivisions shall be filed with the
planning director. The planning board shall prescribe the form of application,
as well as any other material it may reasonably require to determine compliance
with this division. Final plats shall comply with the mapping requirements of
section
14-230 and the certification and endorsement requirements of section
14-231. For major subdivisions, a preliminary plat for the lots shown on the
proposed final plat must have been approved and not expired before a final plat
approval application may be accepted. As part of the application for final plat
approval, the applicant shall certify one of the following:
   (a)   That all required improvements (streets, utilities, storm drainage
facilities, street signs, and facilities for common use, if any) approved as
part of the preliminary plat approval and serving lots shown on the final plat
have been completed;
   (b)   That a performance guarantee and description thereof, including
sufficient means and procedures, to ensure satisfactory completion of any
uncompleted improvements have been posted; or
   (c)   That the subdivision shown on the final plat is subject to U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development regulations that ensure
satisfactory completion of any uncompleted improvements.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 5.9.1; Amend. of 6-1-2009(2))
Sec. 14-202. - Planning director's action.
   When the planning director accepts an application for final plat approval of
a subdivision, the planning director shall determine if the final plat conforms
to all applicable regulations and to an approved valid preliminary plat if a
major subdivision. He shall approve or deny the application.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 5.9.2)
Sec. 14-203. - Actions subsequent to decision.
   If an application for final plat approval of a subdivision is approved, the
planning director shall endorse his approval on a reproducible mylar original
of the final plat. The applicant shall record the final plat in the office of
the county register of deeds. Approval of any final plat is void if it is not
properly recorded within 60 calendar days after the planning director's
endorsement of the approval. The planning director may extend this deadline
provided the applicant has demonstrated a good faith effort to comply with the
deadline, but for reasons beyond his control, fails to meet the requirements of
the register of deeds for recordation within that period. Such plat shall
conform to the drawing specifications, certifications and endorsement
requirements of section
14-230 and section
14-231.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 5.9.3)
Sec. 14-204. - Appeal of decision.
   The planning director's decision on a final plat approval application may be
appealed to the board of adjustment under article XI of this chapter.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 5.9.4)
Secs. 14-205—14-220. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - DESIGN OF SUBDIVISIONS
   Sec.
14-221. - Intent.
   Sec.
14-222. - Applicability of lot design standards.
   Sec.
14-223. - Lot size standards.
   Sec.
14-224. - Lot arrangement.
   Sec.
14-225. - Flag lots.
   Sec.
14-226. - Access and circulation.
   Sec.
14-227. - Lot dimensions.
   Sec.
14-228. - Reverse frontage residential lots.
   Sec.
14-229. - Public water and sewer systems.
   Sec.
14-230. - Specifications for drawings.
   Sec.
14-231. - Certificates and endorsements on final plat.
   Sec.
14-232. - Distribution of recorded plat.
   Secs. 14-233, 14-234. - Reserved.
Sec. 14-221. - Intent.
   Subdivisions should be designed with a street network which provides safe,
adequate access to all lots within the subdivision. Extension of a public
access to an adjoining property should be considered in the subdivision design
where a compelling public need is deemed necessary for orderly development of
these adjoining properties. However, the design of the local street network in
a subdivision should not encourage large amounts of through traffic, the
origins and destination of which are external to the subdivision, to use local
roads in the subdivision. Due consideration should be given to preserving
important natural features, such as trees, ponds, streams, lakes, as well as
historical sites which are of value to the county as a whole.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 5.10.1)
Sec. 14-222. - Applicability of lot design standards.
   Each lot in a subdivision shall comply with the lot design standards
contained in this division. Newly created or revised lots shall be designed so
that any existing structures continue to meet the requirements of this division
or so that any existing nonconformity is not increased, enlarged, or extended.
The standards of this section, however, do not apply to recreation areas, lots
within approved planned unit developments, townhouse lots or lots created as
part of a minor subdivision.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 5.10.2; Amend. of 6-1-2009(2))
Sec. 14-223. - Lot size standards.
   Lots laid out for commercial or industrial purposes shall be of a size that
is adequate to provide for the structure to be located on the site; off-street
parking facilities required by the type and use of the development; and any
required landscape buffer or screening areas. Lots for residential use shall
comply with the provisions of this division.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 5.10.3)
Sec. 14-224. - Lot arrangement.
   The arrangement of lots in a subdivision shall comply with the provisions of
this division and the regulations of the county health department, and shall
provide vehicular access to buildings on the lot from an approved street.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 5.10.4)
Sec. 14-225. - Flag lots.
   (a)   Flag lots and easement access lots shall be permitted only if it can
be demonstrated by the applicant that the subdivision cannot be physically
designed and that no reasonable alternative exists. The basis for a reasonable
alternative shall include the following:
   (1)   Topographic constraints or irregularly shaped land in which no
alternative exists;
   (2)   Natural features such as ponds, streams, wetlands, or buffers exist
which would limit street construction and/or lot design;
   (3)   A long narrow parent parcel which would limit alternative designs;
   (4)   A parent parcel that has limited or no direct road frontage which
would require the use of a flagpole or easement with no alternative design
available;
   (5)   No alternative access is available or feasible such as a paved
subdivision street or cul-de-sac street constructed to NCDOT standards.
   (b)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to present evidence to the
planning board that one or more of the hardships listed in subsection (a)
exist.
   (c)   Any decision of the waiver described in subsection (a) may be appealed
to the Johnston County Board of Adjustment as described in section
14-592 of the land development code.
   (d)   All flag lots or easement access lots within a major subdivision shall
meet the following requirements:
   (1)   A flag lot shall serve only one single-family dwelling and its
uninhabited accessory structures;
   (2)   The minimum flagpole width shall be 30 feet;
   (3)   The minimum separation between the flagpole portion of the lot and
that of another flag lot shall be 100 feet;
   (4)   Where public water is available, the occupied building on the flag lot
shall be within 500 feet of a fire hydrant. This distance shall be measured
along the street, then along the flagpole, then in a straight line to the
building thereon;
   (5)   Where public sewer is available, the occupied building on the lot
shall have a gravity service line, or the sewer pump requirements shall be
noted on the recorded plat;
   (6)   Use of a single driveway to serve the flag lot and an adjoining lot is
permitted and encouraged. In the case of a shared driveway, the location of the
driveway shall be on the flagpole portion of the flag lot, with the
conventional lot granted an access easement over the flagpole; and
   (7)   Designate the building footprint and orientation of the house on the
preliminary plat.
   (e)   The flagpole portion of a lot shall not be used to calculate the area,
width, or setbacks of the lot for the zoning district in which the lot is
located.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 5.10.4.1; Amend. of 12-12-2005(2); Amend. of 6-1-2009(2);
Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-226. - Access and circulation.
   The type and arrangement of streets within a development under this article
shall be in compliance with and coordinate with the county's thoroughfare plan.
Principal vehicular access points to the subdivision shall be designed to
encourage smooth traffic flow and minimize hazard to vehicular traffic,
pedestrian and bicycle traffic. Accommodation for controlled turning movements
into and out of the subdivision and improvement of the approach street should
be considered where existing or anticipated heavy traffic flows indicate need.
Safe and convenient vehicular access shall be provided for emergency, service
and school bus vehicles.
   (a)   Roads. The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade, and location
of all roads should be designed in relation to existing and proposed
transportation patterns, topographical and other natural features, public
convenience and safety, and proposed uses of lands to be served by such roads
and existing and potential land uses in adjoining areas. Private roads not
within a minor subdivision or planned unit development shall:
   (1)   Be limited to a nonthrough road;
   (2)   Be paved;
   (3)   Meet the road construction standards for a private road as set out in
the county design manual; and
   (4)   Be ensured proper maintenance through the establishment of a
homeowners' association or a road maintenance agreement.
   All public roads shall meet the design and construction standards as
specified in the county design manual.
   (b)   Relationship to adjoining properties. New streets or roads shall be
appropriately related to, and coordinated with, adjoining properties and
existing and proposed roadways. Roadways within a proposed subdivision may
connect with adjoining properties where necessary to permit the convenient,
efficient and safe movement of traffic. All roads that extend to adjacent
properties shall be designated as public roads.
   (c)   Access to streets. Every subdivided lot shall front on, or have direct
driveway access or dedicated easement to, a public or private street meeting
the standards of the county design manual.
   (d)   Direct residential driveway connections. Subdivisions located on an
arterial or collector road shall be so designed so that no new subdivided lot
shall have a direct driveway connection onto an arterial or collector road,
unless it can be demonstrated that the proposed subdivision cannot be feasibly
designed, or that no reasonable alternative exists, to prohibit driveway access
onto an arterial or collector street.
   Major subdivisions to be located on a local road shall be so designed that
there shall be no more than one direct residential driveway connection per 500
feet along the same side of the local road, unless it can be demonstrated that
the proposed subdivision cannot be physically designed, that no reasonable
alternative exists, or it would create an unreasonable hardship without a
corresponding public benefit to prohibit individual driveway access onto a
local road.
   (e)   Subdivision access. A second full-service access built to county
standards for the purpose of ingress and egress or emergency access easement
will be required when meeting or exceeding the following thresholds:
   For subdivisions proposing between 100 and 200 lots, the developer has the
option of providing a second full-service access built to county standards for
the purpose of ingress and egress or a dedicated "emergency vehicle access."
This "emergency vehicle access" is to be constructed of any all-weather surface
and kept cleared at all times in case the main entrance is blocked and
emergency vehicles need to access the development.
   For subdivisions proposing 201 lots or more, a second full-service access
built to county standards for the purpose of ingress and egress will be
required. In lieu of installation of a second full service access, a dedicated
emergency vehicle access must be approved by the Planning Board and constructed
as described above with a full service access approved by the Planning Board
planned within the subdivision proposal for future development.
   Note: For determining when a second access is required, the count will be
cumulative.
   (f)   Subdivision road standards. 
   (1)   Land use permits will be issued until 75 percent of the lots have been
permitted. Once this threshold has been met, no more land use permits will be
issued for lots within the subdivision until the North Carolina Department of
Transportation District Engineer has accepted the subject road into the state
maintained road network.
   (2)   The developer shall be responsible for ensuring that all dedicated
public subdivision streets are successfully accepted by NC DOT for maintenance.
The developer shall be responsible for maintenance of all streets and
protection of rights-of-way until such streets are accepted into the state road
system.
   (3)   Where streets are dedicated to the public but not accepted into the
state system at the time the plat is recorded, a statement explaining the
status of the street shall be included on the final plat. Said statements shall
explain that the developer is ultimately responsible for the upkeep and
maintenance of all streets until such time that the streets are included in the
state system.
   (4)   In lieu of the discontinuation of permits, the developer may provide a
maintenance guarantee where roads have not been accepted by or conveyed to
NCDOT. The amount of the maintenance guarantee shall be equal to 15% of the
total estimated cost of street construction and stabilization of shoulders and
drainage swales. The estimated cost shall be based on a certified engineer's or
licensed contractor's estimate, provided such engineer or contractor is
independent of the developer.
   (g)   Stubout streets. All stubout streets shall be posted with a sign at
least 24 inches X 36 inches in area but no greater than 36 inches X 48 inches
with a minimum height of three feet and a maximum height of five feet stating
the following: Road subject to future extension for additional lots.
   (h)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be provided where necessary to provide
efficient pedestrian access to school site and commercial centers.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 5.10.5; Ord. of 7-9-2001; Ord. of 11-12-2001, § 5.10.5;
Amend. of 5-12-2003(2); Amend. of 7-7-2003; Amend. of 11-8-2004; Amend. of 5-5-
2008(2); Amend. of 10-6-2008(2); Amend. of 6-1-2009(2); Amend. of 1-6-2014;
Amend. of 2-3-2014)
Sec. 14-227. - Lot dimensions.
   Every subdivided lot shall comply with the minimum lot size, lot width, and
street frontage standard as stipulated in this chapter, as well as other
standards of the county health department for lots not served by a public water
and/or sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 5.10.6)
Sec. 14-228. - Reverse frontage residential lots.
   For residential developments designed to have the dwelling units face an
internal subdivision street and the rear of the dwelling units partially or
completely face the main road, the following "may" be required:
   (a)   Landscape area "A" with the use of an eight-foot landscape berm,
decorative wall, or opaque fence; excluding a wooden fence;
   (b)   Landscape area "B" with the use of only plant material;
   (c)   The natural existing vegetation may be used if the density meets or
exceeds the landscape area "B" requirements and remains undisturbed.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 5.10.7; Amend. of 10-6-2008(3); Amend. of 6-1-2009(2))
Sec. 14-229. - Public water and sewer systems.
   Subdivisions that incorporate a public water distributions system and/or a
public sewage collection system, shall require that all future homeowners
connect to the public water and/or sewer system prior to the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy for their principal structure. All subdivisions
incorporating a public water distribution system and/or a public sewage
collection system, shall comply with the standards of the county design manual
and/or the public utilities manual.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 5.10.8)
Sec. 14-230. - Specifications for drawings.
   (a)   Format. The requirements of this section apply to the format of
drawings.
   (b)   Preliminary plat. The preliminary plat shall be drawn to a scale
between 1:100 and 1:20.(Under special circumstances, with the planning
director's approval, a preliminary plat can be drawn to a scale which can
clearly and accurately display the necessary information for review.) The plat
shall show the following:
   (1)   Title data. Name of the subdivision, the names and addresses of the
owner or owners, name of designer of the plat, scale, date, approximate north
point, and in large letters the words, "PRELIMINARY PLAT."
   (2)   Existing data. Property lines, street lines and names, principal
buildings, existing utility lines, watercourses, bridges, public easements,
names of adjacent subdivisions and/or property owners, distance to nearest
street intersection, corporate limit and/or planning district lines; and an
inset sketch map showing the subdivision's location in relation to the county
and general area.
   (3)   Data relating to subdivision. Names, locations and other dimensions
and/or metes and bounds of proposed streets, lots, easements, building lines,
and recreational/open space areas if appropriate. A statement describing the
water supply and sanitary sewage disposal facilities proposed to be installed
in the subdivision.
   (4)   Floodway data. The boundaries of both the floodway and floodplain,
shown on maps entitled flood hazard boundary map, shall be shown clearly.
   (c)   Final plat. The final plat shall be drawn in black ink on mylar to a
suitable scale to assure legibility. It shall show the following:
   (1)   Title and documentation data. Name of subdivision, the township, the
name of the licensed engineer or surveyor under whose supervision the plat was
prepared; the date of the plat; the scale and north point; and all endorsements
and certifications provided for in section
14-231.
   (2)   Data relating to the subdivision. Lines and names of streets; lines of
all lots, easements, areas devoted to common use, with notes stating clearly
their proposed use, any limitations and the person or entity responsible for
continued maintenance; corporate and/or other boundaries; building lines; metes
and bounds survey information sufficient to determine readily on the ground the
location of every street, lot line, boundary line, block line, easement line,
and building line; the radius central angle, and tangent distance for both
street lines of curved streets, the locations and types of all permanent
monuments; the names of subdivisions and streets adjoining the platted
subdivision; and designation of all streets within the subdivision as public or
private.
   (3)   State statute. All data shown on the final plat shall be consistent
with the provisions set out in G.S. 47-30.
   (4)   Easements. All easements and their function shall be shown on the
final plat.
   (5)   Floodway data. The boundaries of both the floodway and 100-year
floodplain zone, as shown on the map entitled "Flood Boundary and Floodway
Map," shall be shown. The FRIM panel and its adoption date shall be shown.
   (6)   Future streets. All streets intended for future extension either
within or beyond the boundaries of the subdivision shall clearly be indicated
on the plat, by the words "Reserved for Future Public Access."
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 5.11; Amend. of 6-1-2009(2))
Sec. 14-231. - Certificates and endorsements on final plat.
   The following certificates and endorsements, where applicable, must be shown
on all final plats of subdivisions:
   (1)   Certificate of survey and accuracy.
   (2)   Certificate of floodway information.
   (3)   Certificate of ownership, dedication and maintenance.
   (4)   Notice to homeowners to connect to public utility system.
   (5)   Certificate of public utilities, with the exception of minor
subdivision.
   (6)   Certification of approval of water supply and sewage disposal system.
   (7)   Certificate of department of transportation.
   (8)   Road maintenance statement of understanding.
   (9)   Planning director's certification.
   (10)   Review officer's certification.
   (11)   Register of deed certification.
   (12)   Additional certifications, statements, or notations necessary.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 5.12.1; Amend. of 8-11-2003; Amend. of 6-1-2009(2))
Sec. 14-232. - Distribution of recorded plat.
   When approved by the planning director, one original mylar copy of a
recorded plat under this article shall be filed with the register of deeds; one
blue line copy shall be on file in the county planning department, and one blue
line copy shall be on file with the county department of environmental health.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 5.12.2.1)
Secs. 14-233, 14-234. - Reserved.
DIVISION 6. - DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
   Sec.
14-235. - Authorization for development agreements.
   Sec.
14-236. - Definitions.
   Sec.
14-237. - Approval of development agreements.
   Sec.
14-238. - Minimum acreage and maximum durations of agreements.
   Sec.
14-239. - Public hearing.
   Sec.
14-240. - Contents of the development agreement; major modification requires
public notice and hearing.
   Sec.
14-241. - Law in effect at time of agreement governs development; exceptions.
   Sec.
14-242. - Periodic review to assess compliance with agreement; material breach
by developer; notice of breach; cure of breach or modification or termination
of agreement.
   Sec.
14-243. - Amendment or cancellation of development agreement by mutual consent
of parties or successors in interest.
   Sec.
14-244. - Validity and duration of agreement entered into prior to change of
jurisdiction; subsequent modification or suspension.
   Sec.
14-245. - Developer to record agreement within 14 days; burdens and benefits
inure to successors in interest.
   Sec.
14-246. - Applicability to local government of constitutional and statutory
procedures for approval of debt.
   Sec.
14-247. - Relationship of agreement to building or housing code.
   Secs. 14-248—14-250. - Reserved.
Sec. 14-235. - Authorization for development agreements.
   The Johnston County Board of Commissioners finds that:
   (a)   Large-scale development projects often occur in multiple phases
extending over a period of years, requiring a longterm commitment of both
public and private resources.
   (b)   Such large-scale developments often create potential community impacts
and potential opportunities that are difficult or impossible to accommodate
within traditional zoning processes.
   (c)   Because of their scale and duration, such large-scale projects often
require careful integration between public capital facilities planning,
financing, and construction schedules and the phasing of the private
development.
   (d)   Because of their scale and duration, such large-scale projects involve
substantial commitments of private capital by developers, which developers are
usually unwilling to risk without sufficient assurances that development
standards will remain stable through the extended period of the development.
   (e)   Because of their size and duration, such developments often permit
communities and developers to experiment with different or nontraditional types
of development concepts and standards, while still managing impacts on the
surrounding areas.
   (f)   And, to better structure and manage development approvals for such
large-scale developments and ensure their proper integration into local capital
facilities programs, Johnston County needs the flexibility in negotiating such
developments.
   Therefore, per G.S. ch. 160D, article 10, the board of commissioners may
enter into development agreements with developers, subject to the procedures
and requirements of this division. In entering into such agreements, the board
of commissioners may not exercise any authority or make any commitment not
authorized by general or local act and may not impose any tax or fee not
authorized by otherwise applicable law.
   This authorization of development agreements is supplemental to the powers
conferred by the state upon local governments and does not preclude or
supersede rights and obligations established pursuant to other laws regarding
building permits, site-specific development plans, phased development plans,
and/or other provisions of law.
(Amend. of 7-10-2006(1); Amend. of - -)
Sec. 14-236. - Definitions.
   The following definitions apply in this division:
   Comprehensive plan. The comprehensive plan, land-use plan, small-area plans,
neighborhood plans, transportation plan, capital-improvement plan, official
map, and/or any other plans regarding land use and development that have been
officially adopted by the governing board.
   Developer. A person, company, or other entity, including a governmental
agency or redevelopment authority, that intends to undertake any development
and who has a legal or equitable interest in the property to be developed.
   Development. The planning for or carrying out of a building activity, the
making of a material change in the use or appearance of any structure or
property, or the dividing of land into two or more parcels. "Development", as
designated in a law or development permit, includes the planning for, and all
other activity customarily associated with, that activity, use or appearance,
and/or division of land, unless otherwise specified. When appropriate to the
context, "development" refers to the planning for or the act of developing or
to the result of development. Reference to a specific operation is not intended
to mean that the operation or activity, when part of other operations or
activities, is not development. Reference to particular operations is not
intended to limit the generality of this item.
   Development permit. A building permit, zoning permit, subdivision approval,
special or conditional use permit, variance, or any other official action of
Johnston County having the effect of permitting the development of property.
   Governing body. The Board of County Commissioners of Johnston County.
   Land development regulations. Ordinances and regulations enacted by the
appropriate governing body for the regulation of any aspect of development and
includes zoning, subdivision, or any other land development ordinances.
   Laws. All ordinances, resolutions, regulations, comprehensive plans, land
development regulations, policies, and rules adopted by Johnston County
affecting the development of property, and includes laws governing permitted
uses of the property, density, design, and improvements.
   Local government. Johnston County and any other regulatory entity that
exercises authority over and/or grants development permits for land development
or that provides public facilities.
   Local planning board. Any planning board established pursuant to G.S. 153A-
321.
   Person. An individual, corporation, business or land trust, estate, trust,
partnership, association, two or more persons having a joint or common
interest, state agency, or any legal entity.
   Property. All real property subject to land-use regulation by Johnston
County and includes any improvements or structures customarily regarded as a
part of real property.
   Public facilities. Major capital improvements, including, but not limited
to, transportation, sanitary sewer, solid waste, drainage, potable water,
educational, parks and recreational, and health systems and facilities.
(Amend, of 7-10-2006(1))
Sec. 14-237. - Approval of development agreements.
   Only the Board of Commissioners of Johnston County may approve a development
agreement on behalf of the county. Other government entities may also be party
to the development agreement. The board of commissioners may establish
procedures and requirements, as provided in this division, to consider and
enter into development agreements with developers.
(Amend. of 7-10-2006(1))
Sec. 14-238. - Minimum acreage and maximum durations of agreements.
   The property that is the subject of a development agreement must contain at
least 25 acres of developable property (exclusive of wetlands, mandatory
buffers, unbuildable slopes, and other portions of the property which may be
precluded from development at the time of application).
   All development agreements shall be of a term specified in the agreement.
(Amend. of 7-10-2006(1); Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-239. - Public hearing.
   Before entering into a development agreement, the board of commissioners
shall conduct a public hearing on the proposed agreement, following the
procedures set forth in G.S. 160D-1005 regarding zoning-ordinance adoption or
amendment. The notice for the public hearing must specify the location of the
property subject to the development agreement, the development uses proposed on
the property, and must specify a place where a copy of the proposed development
agreement can be obtained.
   In the event that the development agreement provides that the local
government shall provide certain public facilities, the development agreement
shall provide that the delivery date of such public facilities will be tied to
successful performance by the developer in implementing the proposed
development (such as meeting defined completion percentages or other
performance standards).
(Amend. of 7-10-2006(1))
Sec. 14-240. - Contents of the development agreement; major modification
requires public notice and hearing.
   A development agreement shall include at least all of the following:
   (a)   A legal description of the property subject to the agreement and the
names of its legal and equitable property owners.
   (b)   The duration of the agreement. However, the parties are not precluded
from entering into subsequent development agreements that may extend the
original duration period.
   (c)   The development uses permitted on the property, including population
densities and building types, intensities, placement on the site, and design.
   (d)   A description of public facilities that will service the development,
including who provides the facilities, the date any new public facilities, if
needed, will be constructed, and a schedule to assure public facilities are
available concurrent with the impacts of the development.
   (e)   A description, where appropriate, of any reservation or dedication of
land for public purposes and any provisions to protect environmentally-
sensitive property.
   (f)   A description of all local development permits approved or needed to
be approved for the development of the property, together with a statement
indicating that the failure of the agreement to address a particular permit,
condition, term, or restriction does not relieve the developer of the necessity
of complying with the law governing their permitting requirements, conditions,
terms, or restrictions.
   (g)   A description of any conditions, terms, restrictions, or other
requirements determined to be necessary by the local government for the public
health, safety, or welfare of its citizens.
   (h)   A description, where appropriate, of any provisions for the
preservation and restoration of historic structures.
   (i)   The development agreement shall provide a development schedule,
including commencement dates and interim completion dates at no greater than
five-year intervals; provided, however, the failure to meet a commencement or
completion date shall not, in and of itself, constitute a material breach of
the development agreement pursuant to G.S. 160D-1008 but must be judged based
upon the totality of the circumstances.
   (j)   If more than one local government is made party to an agreement, the
agreement must specify which local government is responsible for the overall
administration of the development agreement. The development agreement also may
cover any other matter not inconsistent with this division.
   (k)   Any performance guarantees under the development agreement shall
comply with G.S. 160D-804.1.
   A development agreement may include the following:
   (a)   A development agreement may provide that the entire development or any
phase of it be commenced or completed within a specified period of time.
   (b)   The development agreement may include other defined performance
standards to be met by the developer. The developer may request a modification
in the dates as set forth in the agreement. Consideration of a proposed major
modification of the agreement shall follow the same procedures as required for
initial approval of a development agreement.
   Any major modification of the terms of the development agreement shall not
be permitted without the publishing of a public notice and the conduct of a
public hearing of the same form and content as were required for the original
development agreement.
(Amend. of 7-10-2006(1); Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-241. - Law in effect at time of agreement governs development;
exceptions.
   Unless the development agreement specifically provides for the application
of subsequently enacted laws, the laws applicable to development of the
property subject to a development agreement are those in force at the time of
execution of the agreement.
   (a)   Except for grounds specified in G.S. 160D-108.1(f), a local government
may not apply subsequently adopted ordinances or development policies to a
development that is subject to a development agreement.
   (b)   In the event state or federal law is changed after a development
agreement has been entered into and the change prevents or precludes compliance
with one or more provisions of the development agreement, the local government
may modify the affected provisions, upon a finding that the change in state or
federal law has a fundamental effect on the development agreement, by ordinance
after notice and a hearing.
   (c)   This section does not abrogate any rights preserved by G.S. 160D-108
and 160D-108.1, or that may vest pursuant to common law or otherwise in the
absence of a development agreement.
(Amend. of 7-10-2006(1); Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-242. - Periodic review to assess compliance with agreement; material
breach by developer; notice of breach; cure of breach or modification or
termination of agreement.
   At least once every 12 months, the planning director or designee shall
review the status of the development to ascertain its level of compliance with
the agreement. Within 60 days of the mailing of the compliance report of the
planning director or designee to the developer, the developer must demonstrate
a plan for, or progress toward, good-faith compliance with any noncompliance or
deficiency indicated in the report.
   (a)   If, after these 60 days, the local government finds and determines
that the developer has committed a material breach of the terms or conditions
of the agreement, the local government shall serve notice in writing, within
the next 30 days, upon the developer setting forth with reasonable
particularity the nature of the breach and the evidence supporting the finding
and determination, and providing the developer a reasonable time in which to
cure the material breach. That reasonable time shall not exceed 180 days.
   (b)   If the developer fails to cure the material breach within the time
given, then the local government unilaterally may terminate or modify the
development agreement; provided, the notice of termination or modification may
be appealed to the board of adjustment in the manner provided by G.S. 153A-345
(b).
(Amend of 7-10-2006(1))
Sec. 14-243. - Amendment or cancellation of development agreement by mutual
consent of parties or successors in interest.
   A development agreement may be amended or canceled by mutual consent of the
parties to the agreement or by their successors in interest.
(Amend. of 7-10-2006(1))
Sec. 14-244. - Validity and duration of agreement entered into prior to change
of jurisdiction; subsequent modification or suspension.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided by this part, any development agreement
entered into by a local government before the effective date of a change of
jurisdiction shall be valid for the duration of the agreement, or eight years
from the effective date of the change in jurisdiction, whichever is earlier.
The parties to the development agreement and the local government assuming
jurisdiction have the same rights and obligations with respect to each other
regarding matters addressed in the development agreement as if the property had
remained in the previous jurisdiction.
   (b)   A local government assuming jurisdiction may modify or suspend the
provisions of the development agreement if the local government determines that
the failure of the local government to do so would place the residents of the
territory subject to the development agreement, or the residents of the local
government, or both, in a condition dangerous to their health or safety, or
both.
(Amend. of 7-10-2006(1))
Sec. 14-245. - Developer to record agreement within 14 days; burdens and
benefits inure to successors in interest.
   Within 14 days after a local government enters into a development agreement,
the developer shall record the agreement with the register of deeds. The
burdens of the development agreement are binding upon, and the benefits of the
agreement shall inure to, all successors in interest to the parties to the
agreement.
(Amend. of 7-10-2006(1))
Sec. 14-246. - Applicability to local government of constitutional and
statutory procedures for approval of debt.
   In the event that any of the obligations of the local government in the
development agreement constitutes debt, the local government shall comply, at
the time of the obligation to incur the debt and before the debt becomes
enforceable against the local government, with any applicable constitutional
and statutory procedures for the approval of this debt.
(Amend. of 7-10-2006(1))
Sec. 14-247. - Relationship of agreement to building or housing code.
   A development agreement adopted pursuant to this division shall not exempt
the property owner or developer from compliance with the state building code or
state or local housing codes that are not part of the local government's
planning, zoning, or subdivision regulations.
(Amend. of 7-10-2006(1))
Secs. 14-248—14-250. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - SPECIAL USES
   Sec.
14-251. - Intent.
   Sec.
14-252. - Permit required.
   Sec.
14-253. - Findings of fact.
   Sec.
14-254. - Procedures for approval of permits.
   Sec.
14-255. - Modifications of permits.
   Sec.
14-256. - Expiration and revocation of permit approvals.
   Sec.
14-257. - Standards.
   Secs. 14-258—14-290. - Reserved.
Sec. 14-251. - Intent.
   It is the intent of this article to recognize and permit certain uses and
developments that require special review, and to provide standards by which
applications for permits for such uses and developments shall be evaluated. It
is further intended that special use permits be required for the following
types of developments:
   (1)   Special uses that, because of their inherent nature, extent, and
external effects, require special care in the control of their location,
design, and methods of operation in order to ensure protection of the public
health, safety, and welfare.
   (2)   Planned developments that require special review in order to provide
the regulatory flexibility and performance criteria necessary to permit a
creative approach to the development of land that will:
      a.   Accomplish a more desirable environment than would be possible
through the strict application of the generally applicable requirements of this
article;
      b.   Provide for an efficient use of land and arrangement of land uses,
buildings, circulation systems, and utilities;
      c.   Promote an improved level of amenities; and
      d.   Provide an environment of stable character in harmony with
surrounding areas. All uses established in special use districts.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 6.1)
Sec. 14-252. - Permit required.
   (a)   A special use permit may be requested for any development authorized
by this article. If a special use permit is requested but not required, that
particular permitted use may be established only upon issuance and recordation
of a special use permit. Those uses described in section
14-257 and listed in article II of this chapter as permitted special uses in a
special use district may be established in that district only after issuance
and recordation of a special use permit. Those planned developments described
in section
14-257(j) may be established in any zoning district and only after issuance and
recordation of a special use permit. Any uses in special use districts, as
described in section
14-51(7), shall be established only after issuance and recordation of a special
use permit.
   (b)   Permit choice. All applications for special use permits are subject to
the rules for permit choice as specified in section
14-133(b).
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 6.2; Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-253. - Findings of fact.
   No special use permit shall be recommended by the planning director for
approval and no special use permit shall be approved by the board of
commissioners unless each of the following findings is made concerning the
proposed special use or planned development:
   (1)   That the use or development is located, designed, and proposed to be
operated so as to maintain or promote the public health, safety, and general
welfare;
   (2)   That the use of development complies with all required use and
intensity regulations of articles II and VI of this chapter, and the applicable
specific standards contained in section
14-257 and with all applicable regulations. Note: Applicable regulations not in
this chapter may include and are not limited to other provisions of this Code,
other ordinances and resolutions, and state and federal regulations;
   (3)   That the use or development is located, designed, and proposed to be
operated so as to maintain or enhance the value of contiguous property, or that
the use or development is a public necessity; and
   (4)   That the use or development conforms with general plans for the
physical development of the county's planning jurisdiction as embodied in this
chapter, the county strategic plan, or other development policies as adopted by
the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 6.3)
Sec. 14-254. - Procedures for approval of permits.
   (a)   Application submittal requirements. Applications for special use
permits shall be filed with the planning director. The planning director shall
prescribe the form on which applications are made. Applications shall include
the name and address of the applicant, the name and address of the property
owner of each zoning lot involved, and the relationship of the applicant and
property owner in connection with the application. If the applicant or property
owner is an entity other than an individual, the application shall also include
detailed information regarding the principals of the entity. The application
shall include a conceptual site plan and a statement (design criteria) of how
the proposed development would provide consistency with article VI of this
chapter. The planning director shall prescribe any other material that may
reasonably be required to determine compliance with this article, with
sufficient copies for necessary referrals and records. No application shall be
accepted by the planning director unless it complies with such requirements.
For the purposes of this chapter, an incomplete application is considered to
have not been submitted and shall be returned forthwith to the applicant, with
a notation of the deficiencies in the application.
   (1)   Traffic impact analysis required in accordance with Johnston County
Land Development Code section
14-366; the county's traffic consultant fee must be paid in full at the time
the special use permit application is submitted, otherwise the application will
be considered incomplete.
   (b)   Planning director's analysis. Upon receipt of a completed application,
the planning director shall cause representatives of the county and such other
agencies or officials as may be appropriate to determine compliance with the
provisions of this article, the comprehensive plan, and in the case of planned
developments to define specifically the modifications of regulations which seem
justified in view of the standards set out in section
14-257(j).
   (c)   Planning director's report to planning board. The planning director
shall submit to the planning board a written analysis of a special use permit
application and his recommendations based on the findings required in section
14-253. The planning board shall provide a preliminary forum for review of
special use permit applications, provided that no part of the forum or
recommendation may be used as a basis for the decision made on each case by the
board of commissioners.
   (d)   Notice of evidentiary public hearing. After receiving the planning
director's report as described in subsection (c) of this section, the board of
commissioners shall hold an evidentiary public hearing on the application.
Notice of date, time and place of the evidentiary public hearing shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the county once a week for
two successive weeks, with the first notice to be published not less than ten
nor more than 25 days prior to the date of the hearing. Notice of the
evidentiary public hearing shall also be mailed to the person or entity whose
appeal, application, or request is the subject of the hearing; to the owner of
the property that is the subject of the hearing if the owner did not initiate
the hearing; and to the owners of all parcels of land abutting the parcel of
land that is the subject of the hearing. In the absence of evidence to the
contrary, the county may rely on the county tax listing to determine owners of
property entitled to mailed notice. The notice must be deposited in the mail at
least ten days, but not more than 25 days, prior to the date of the hearing.
Within that same time period, the county shall also prominently post a notice
of the hearing on the site that is the subject of the hearing or on an adjacent
street or highway right-of-way.
   (e)   Administrative materials. The planning director shall transmit to the
board of commissioners all applications, reports, and written materials
relevant to the matter being considered. The administrative materials may be
distributed to the members of the board prior to the hearing if at the same
time they are distributed to the board a copy is also provided to the appellant
or applicant and to the landowner if that person is not the appellant or
applicant. The administrative materials shall become a part of the hearing
record. The administrative materials may be provided in written or electronic
form. Objections to inclusion or exclusion of administrative materials may be
made before or during the hearing. Rulings on unresolved objections shall be
made by the board at the hearing.
   (f)   Appearance of official. The official who made the decision, if there
was one, or the person currently occupying that position, if the decision maker
is no longer employed by the local government, shall be present at the
evidentiary hearing as a witness.
   (g)   Oaths. The chair of the board or any member acting as chair and the
clerk to the board are authorized to administer oaths to witnesses in any
matter coming before the board. Any person who, while under oath during a
proceeding before the board determining a quasijudicial matter, willfully
swears falsely is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
   (h)   Subpoenas. The board of commissioners through the chair or, in the
chair's absence, anyone acting as chair may subpoena witnesses and compel the
production of evidence. To request issuance of a subpoena, the applicant, the
local government, and any person with standing under G.S. 160D-1402(c) may make
a written request to the chair explaining why it is necessary for certain
witnesses or evidence to be compelled. The chair shall issue requested
subpoenas he or she determines to be relevant, reasonable in nature and scope,
and not oppressive. The chair shall rule on any motion to quash or modify a
subpoena. Decisions regarding subpoenas made by the chair may be immediately
appealed to the full board. If a person fails or refuses to obey a subpoena
issued pursuant to this subsection, the board or the party seeking the subpoena
may apply to the General Court of Justice for an order requiring that its
subpoena be obeyed, and the court shall have jurisdiction to issue these orders
after notice to all proper parties.
   (i)   Presentation of evidence. The applicant, the county, and any person
who would have standing to appeal the decision under G.S. 160D-1402(c) shall
have the right to participate as a party at the evidentiary public hearing.
Other witnesses may present competent, material, and substantial evidence that
is not repetitive as allowed by the board. The board of commissioners may place
reasonable and equitable limitations on the presentation of evidence and
arguments and the cross-examination of witnesses to avoid undue delay. All
persons who intend to present evidence and arguments at the public hearing
shall be sworn. The applicant shall bear the burden of presenting evidence
sufficient to establish persuasively that the proposed development will comply
with the determinations required in section
14-253. Opinion testimony of lay witnesses as to any of the following shall not
be considered evidence for the purposes of these proceedings, and shall not be
considered by the board of commissioners in deciding special use permit cases:
   (1)   The use of property in a particular way affects the value of other
property.
   (2)   The increase in vehicular traffic resulting from a proposed
development poses a danger to the public safety.
   (3)   Matters about which only expert testimony would generally be
admissible under the rules of evidence.
   (j)   Objections. Objections regarding jurisdictional and evidentiary
issues, including, but not limited to, the timeliness of an appeal or the
standing of a party, may be made to the board. The board chair shall rule on
any objections, and the chair's rulings may be appealed to the full board.
These rulings are also subject to judicial review pursuant to G.S. 160D-1402.
   A record of the proceedings of the hearing shall be made and shall include
all documentary evidence presented at the hearing.
   (k)   Conditions of approval. Reasonable and appropriate conditions and
safeguards may be imposed upon special use permits. The petitioner and
landowner must provide written consent to all conditions. Where appropriate,
such conditions may include requirements that street and utility rights-of-way
be dedicated to the public and that provision be made for recreational space
and facilities. Conditions and safeguards imposed under this subsection shall
not include requirements for which the county does not have authority under
statute to regulate nor requirements for which the courts have held to be
unenforceable if imposed directly by the county, including, without limitation,
taxes, impact fees, building design elements within the scope of G.S. 160D-702
(b), driveway-related improvements in excess of those allowed in G.S. 136-18
(29) and G.S. 160A-307, or other unauthorized limitations on the development or
use of land.
   (l)   Board of commissioners action. The board of commissioners shall review
the planning director's report, and the planning board's recommendation and
shall act on a special use permit application based on the findings required in
section
14-253. All findings shall be based on competent, material, and substantial
evidence presented at the public hearing. Action on the application shall be
one of the following:
   (1)   Approval;
   (2)   Approval subject to conditions; or
   (3)   Denial.
   Each final decision shall be reduced to writing, reflect the board's
determination of contested facts and their application to the applicable
standards, and be approved by the board and signed by the chair or other duly
authorized member of the board. The decision is effective upon filing the
written decision with the planning director.
   (m)   Effect of denial or withdrawal on subsequent application. When the
board of commissioners has denied an application for a special use permit, or
the applicant has withdrawn his application by written notice after publication
of the first public hearing notice required in subsection (d) of this section,
the planning director shall not accept another application for approval of the
same or similar special use or planned development, affecting the same
property, or a portion thereof, until 12 months have elapsed from the date of
denial or withdrawal, as appropriate. 
   (n)   Notice of decision and issuance of permit. The planning director shall
deliver the decision of the board of commissioners within a reasonable time by
personal delivery, electronic mail, or first-class mail to the special use
permit applicant, landowner, and any person who has submitted a written request
for a copy prior to the date the decision becomes effective, and shall file a
copy of it with the county's planning department. The planning director shall
certify to the local government that proper notice has been made, and the
certificate shall be deemed conclusive in the absence of fraud. If the
application is approved or approved with conditions, the planning director
shall issue the necessary special use permit in accordance with the action of
the board of commissioners. The applicant shall record such permit in the
office of the county register of deeds. No subsequent permit application will
be accepted by the county until the special use permit is recorded. The special
use permit, including all conditions attached thereto, shall run with the land
and shall be binding on the original applicant as well as all successors,
assigns, and heirs.
   (o)   Appeal of decision. The board of commissioners decision on an
application for a special use permit may be appealed to superior court within
30 days of the decision by an action in the nature of certiorari. Failure to
appeal within the time allocated shall be deemed a waiver of appeal. Note: G.S.
160D- 406(k) specifies the appeal process.
   (p)   Final plan approval. The planning director shall not issue a land use
permit for development approved in a special use permit unless and until such
special use permit has been recorded with the county register of deeds and the
planning director has approved final plans for the development as a whole, or
for phases thereof deemed satisfactory in relation to total development.
Approval of final plans shall be based on compliance with all applicable
regulations and requirements, including conditions attached to the special use
permit.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 6.4; Amend. of 11-8-2004; Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-255. - Modifications of permits.
   (a)   The planning director is authorized to approve minor changes in the
approved final plans for a development under this article as long as such
changes continue to be in compliance with the approving action of the board of
commissioners and all other applicable requirements, but shall not have the
authority to approve changes that constitute a modification of the special use
permit.
   (b)   Any change requiring evidentiary support in addition to that presented
at a public hearing on applications for the original special use permit or
subsequent modifications of the special use permit shall constitute a
modification of the special use permit. Before making a determination as to
whether a proposed action is a minor change or a modification, the planning
director shall review the record of the proceedings on the original application
for the special use permit and subsequent applications for modifications of the
special use permit and shall use the following criteria in making the
determination:
   (1)   A change in the boundaries of the site of the approved special use
permit shall constitute a modification;
   (2)   A change in uses permitted or the density of overall development
permitted shall constitute a modification;
   (3)   An increase of ten percent or more in the number of parking spaces of
the approved special use permit, unless the proposed addition is ten or fewer
spaces, shall constitute a modification;
   (4)   Substantial changes in the location of principal and/or accessory
structures of the approved special use permit shall constitute a modification;
and
   (5)   Substantial changes in vehicular access or circulation of the approved
special use permit shall constitute a modification.
   (c)   If the proposed action under this article is determined to be a
modification, the planning director shall require the filing of an application
for approval of the modification. The planning director shall prescribe the
form of applications as well as any other material he may reasonably require to
determine compliance with this article. An application for modification of a
special use permit shall be reviewed in accordance with the procedures
established in section
14-254. No modification shall be allowed to a special use permit issued in a
conditional use zoning district unless the applicant accepts in writing all of
the requirements and conditions the board of commissioners proposes to impose
on the modification. Acceptance of conditions by the applicant may be provided
at the board of commissioners hearing on the special use permit modification or
by affidavit submitted prior to the board of commissioners taking action on the
modification application.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 6.5; Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-256. - Expiration and revocation of permit approvals.
   (a)   Binding on land. A special use permit or modification of a special use
permit shall run with the land covered by the permit or modification. Once
construction authorized by a special use permit or modification of a special
use permit is started, no development other than that authorized by the permit
or modification shall be approved on the land unless the permit or modification
is first modified in accordance with section
14-255, or voided or revoked in accordance with the provisions of this section.
No special use permit authorizing development of property within a special use
district may be abandoned or revoked unless the property is first rezoned to a
general use zoning district. If a special use permit is revoked, the zoning of
the subject property is automatically returned to its prior zoning
classification.
   (b)   Starting time limit. If the use, construction, or activity authorized
by the board of commissioners approval of an application for a special use
permit or modification of special use permit is not started within 24 months of
the date of approval or within such further time stipulated in the approval,
the approval shall expire and any county permit issued pursuant to the approval
shall be void. The planning director may grant an extension of the starting
time limit for up to 12 months if he/she/they determines the following:
   (1)   The permit holder submitted the request within 60 days of the starting
deadline;
   (2)   The permit holder has experienced delays out of his/her/their control,
such as changing market conditions, inclement weather, newly discovered site
constraints, or other factors; and
   (3)   The permit holder is working in good faith to get started on the
project, as evidenced by demonstrable actions to overcome the constraints
delaying the project.
   In the event that a special use permit is not recorded within 24 months of
approval by the board of county commissioners, or construction has not begun
within 24 months of the recording of the special use permit, the zoning
classification shall revert back to the previous zoning classification. Upon
reversion, the current landowner shall be notified of the zoning
reclassification by first-class mail.
   (c)   Completion time limit. If all construction and actions authorized or
required by a special use permit or modification of a special use permit are
not completed by the completion date stipulated in the permit or modification,
the permit holder may request an extension of the completion time limit from
the planning director. The planning director may grant a single extension of
the time limit for up to 12 months if he determines the following:
   (1)   The permit holder submitted the request within 60 days of the
completion date;
   (2)   The permit holder has proceeded with due diligence and good faith; and
   (3)   Conditions have not changed so substantially as to warrant planning
board or board of commissioners consideration of the approved development.
   If all of the construction actions authorized or required by a special use
permit or modification of a special use permit are still not completed by the
extended completion date granted by the planning director, the permit holder
may, within 60 days of the revised completion date, request additional
extensions of the completion time limit from the board of commissioners. The
planning board or board of commissioners where appropriate, may grant
extensions of the time limit for periods of up to 12 months if it makes the
determinations in this subsection.
   (d)   Abandonment of permit. On request by the holder of a special use
permit or modification of a special use permit, the board of commissioners
shall approve the abandonment of the permit or modification if it determines
that no construction or activity authorized by the permit has been started and
the starting time limit has not yet expired; or the development or use
authorized by the permit or modification no longer requires a special use
permit, and all conditions of the special use permit have been satisfied. In
addition, the board of commissioners must determine that the permit holder has
submitted a signed affidavit clearly stating the holder's intent to abandon the
permit or modification. If the board of commissioners approves the abandonment,
it shall not be effective until the affidavit of abandonment is recorded in the
office of the county register of deeds.
   (e)   Revocation of permit. If any conditions of a special use permit or
modification of a special use permit, including requirements of this chapter
applicable to the permit or modification are violated, the board of
commissioners may revoke the permit or modification. The board of commissioners
may reinstate a revoked special use permit or modification of a special use
permit if it determines that:
   (1)   The holder of the revoked permit or modification submitted a request
for reinstatement to the planning director within 90 days of the revocation;
   (2)   The violations that were the cause of the revocation have been
corrected; and
   (3)   The development fully complies with all conditions of the permit or
modification and all applicable requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 6.6; Amend. of 12-1-2008; Amend. - - )
Sec. 14-257. - Standards.
   (a)   Generally. Special uses may be established in accordance with the
procedures and general requirements set forth in this article. Except where
more restrictive standards are required in this section, special uses shall
comply with the intensity regulations established in article II of this chapter
for the zoning district in which such use is located and the use group to which
such use belongs, and with the design standards established in article VI of
this chapter. In addition to the general determinations required in section
14-253 and the requirements of this section, the specific supplemental
standards in this section shall be applicable for the designated use.
   (b)   Commercial cemeteries. The zoning lot on which a commercial cemetery
is located shall have a minimum land area of one acre. An applicant for a
special use permit shall provide evidence that the requirements of G. S. ch. 65
can be achieved and that the standards of the state cemetery commission shall
be met. The site shall have access to an arterial or collector street. Adequate
space for the parking and maneuvering of funeral entourages shall be provided
within the site. No interments shall take place within 30 feet of any exterior
lot line of the cemetery.
   (c)   Extraction of earth products, mining operations. Note: The removal of
top soil, and other surface grading activities are exempted from this section.
   (1)   A site plan, and/or information prepared by a state registered land
surveyor, engineer, architect or landscape architect, shall contain the
following:
      a.   Extent of area to be excavated or mined;
      b.   Aerial photograph of site and all areas within 1,000 feet of the
perimeter of the property;
      c.   Neighboring land use, road system, natural features and
topographical (minimum ten-foot contour intervals) details;
      d.   A site cross-section showing extent of overburden, extent of sand
and gravel deposits, and water table;
      e.   Location of proposed handling and storage areas for overburden,
byproduct and excavated materials;
      f.   Location and results of groundwater boring showing depth to
groundwater;
      g.   Any areas proposed for ponds or water collection and storage;
      h.   Wind pattern details and on-site windbreaks;
      i.   Soil conditions, soil descriptions and statement addressing
agricultural productivity and reclamation;
      j.   Traffic impact analysis addressing the capacity of the roads to
serve the site;
      k.   Access roads to the site, as well as on-site roads, with indication
of surface treatment to limit dust; and
      l.   Required setback areas, including buildings, landscape screening/
buffering existing and/or proposed. If plant materials are to be installed, the
number, location, size and type of plants are to be identified.
   (2)   An operations plan which shall include:
      a.   The date proposed to commence operations and their expected
duration.
      b.   Proposed hours and days of operation.
      c.   Estimated type and volume of extraction.
      d.   Description of method of operation, including the disposition of
topsoil, overburden and byproducts.
      e.   Methods to control and respond to spillage of extracted materials,
overburden or byproducts and vehicular mud on off-site roads.
      f.   Description of equipment to be used in the extraction process.
      g.   Methods to prevent pollution of surface water and groundwater.
      h.   Operational test wells including schedule of results, analysis and
response.
      i.   Compliance with provisions of the state mining program.
      j.   Depth of extractive operations.
      k.   Any phasing of the operation and the relationship among the various
phases.
      l.   Operating practices that will be followed to comply with the
performance standards applicable to such operation.
   (3)   A rehabilitation plan which shall include:
      a.   A statement of planned rehabilitation of the excavated land,
including detailed methods of accomplishment and planned future use of the
rehabilitated land;
      b.   A plan of the site showing the final topography, after
rehabilitation, to the same scale as the site plan, depicting any water areas
and methods of preventing stagnation and pollution thereof, landscaping and
ground cover proposed;
      c.   Typical cross-sections showing planned rehabilitation;
      d.   A phasing and timing plan, related to the phasing and timing portion
of the operations plan, showing the progression of the rehabilitation and the
date when it will be complete;
      e.   The method of disposing of all equipment, structures, dikes and
spoil piles associated with the operations; and
      f.   A copy of the rehabilitation/reclamation plan as required by the
state mining act where applicable.
   (4)   Standards of evaluation. The following standards shall be used in
evaluating an application:
      a.   That the applicant demonstrates that the extractive use operation
fulfills primarily a local need as opposed to a regional need in terms of
supplying sand and/or gravel for building and construction purposes.
      b.   That all operations associated with extraction shall conform to the
following performance standards:
         1.   Direct illumination resulting from the operation shall not fall
upon any land not covered by the application.
         2.   Equivalent sound levels at the boundaries of the extraction site
shall not exceed the following standards:
            i.   Between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., 68dBA.
            ii.   Between 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., 58dBA.
      c.   That vibration levels at the boundaries of the extraction site shall
not exceed a maximum peak particle velocity - steady state 1.0 inches/second;
and impact of 2.0 inches/second. Note: The maximum particle velocity shall be
the product of two times the frequency in cycles per second times the sum of
three mutually perpendicular displacement components recorded simultaneously.
For purposes of this article, steady state vibrations are vibrations which are
continuous, or vibrations in discrete impulses more frequent than 60 per
minutes. Discrete impulses which do not exceed 60 per minute shall be
considered impact vibrations. Maximum air blast vibration, measured at the lot
lines of the zoning lot containing the extractive use, shall be 125 decibels on
the linear scale.
   (5)   The following standards shall apply:
      a.   The permanent roads, defined as those to be used in excess of one
year within the excavation site, shall be surfaced with a dustfree material
such as soil cement, bituminous concrete or Portland cement concrete from the
nearest public road to the yard area. Also, all permanent roads located within
300 feet of residentially zoned land shall be treated the same.
      b.   Roads other than permanent roads shall be treated with dust
inhibitors, to be specified in the operations plan, which will reduce to a
minimum the generation of dust from the road surfaces as a result of wind or
vehicular action. Properly operated water wagons shall be an acceptable method
of dust inhibition.
      c.   Where the proposed extraction shall take place within 300 feet of a
dwelling, school, church, hospital, commercial or industrial building, public
building, or public land, a security fence at least six feet in height shall be
installed.
      d.   Spoil piles and other accumulations of byproducts shall not be
created to a height more than 40 feet above the original contour and shall be
so graded that the vertical slope shall not exceed the material's natural angle
of response.
      e.   The operations plan and the rehabilitation plan shall be coordinated
so that the amount of disturbed land is kept to the absolute minimum consonant
with good practices and so that rehabilitation proceeds in concert with
filling.
      f.   No land disturbance shall take place within 250 feet of the zoning
lot line or the property line where the zoning line and the property line are
one and the same.
      g.   Within the 250-foot setback area, existing vegetation shall be
retained for the purpose of providing a visual screen and noise buffer. No
disturbance or removal of vegetation shall be permitted except for access roads
leading from the excavation area to public roads. Where vegetation within the
250-foot setback does not exist, the applicant shall be required to provide a
dense, evergreen buffer consistent with the purpose cited above. The buffer
shall be in place prior to the initiation of any excavation activities.
      h.   The applicant shall submit operational reports, prepared on an
annual basis, detailing the amounts of materials extracted, extent of
extractive area, depth of extractive area, and results of groundwater test
boring.
      i.   Annual inspections of the operation shall be conducted by the zoning
officer following submittal of the annual operations reports to determine
compliance with the provisions of the special use permit.
      j.   In cases of abandonment or termination of operations for a period of
12 consecutive months, application for a new special use permit is required.
      k.   For all extractive uses, a performance guarantee shall be submitted
to the county in order to ensure that the provisions of the rehabilitation plan
are met. Such performance guarantee shall be in a form approved by the county
attorney. The amount of such guarantee shall cover the cost of rehabilitation
on a per acre basis, if the cost does not exceed the amount posted with the
state. If the rehabilitation cost exceeds the amount required by the state,
then the difference shall be made up in a bond to the county.
   (d)   General aviation airports, STOL and heliports. 
   (1)   Submittals. The following shall be submitted as part of an application
for a special use permit for general aviation airports, STOL and heliports:
      a.   A configuration diagram depicting the layout of runways, taxiways,
approach zones and overrun areas. These diagrams should also be on aerial
photographs that show the area within five miles of the proposed site;
      b.   Isosonic contours showing the effects of aircraft operations upon
land within one mile of the boundary of the proposed site;
      c.   The number and type of aircraft proposed to be stored including also
the storage areas for aircraft, fuel and motor vehicles, and service areas for
aircraft;
      d.   How on-site fire and rescue services shall be provided and a letter
from the appropriate agency stating services are available and adequate to
protect the proposed facility;
      e.   Lists giving land uses within the final approach zones of the
airport; and
      f.   Certification that all Federal Aviation Administration and state
standards and requirements have been met.
   (2)   Standards of evaluation. The following specific standards shall be
used in evaluating an application for a special use permit under this section:
      a.   All FAA and state regulations are met as a condition of approval;
      b.   The site and its operation will not adversely affect existing
adjacent land uses;
      c.   Land sufficient to provide approach zones and overrun areas is owned
or controlled by the applicant;
      d.   Adequate land area is provided for all of the proposed uses,
buildings and storage areas;
      e.   Screening of buildings, storage and maintenance areas is provided
from adjacent residential land;
      f.   Letters from appropriate fire and rescue agencies that protective
services can be provided at an adequate level;
      g.   Access shall be directly onto a state-maintained road; and
      h.   Compatible land uses are located in the final approach areas of the
airport.
   (e)   Group care facility and adult day care facility. 
   (1)   The zoning lot on which a group care facility or an adult day care
facility is located shall have access onto an arterial or collector street in
the R zoning districts.
   (2)   The zoning lot on which a group care facility or an adult day care
facility is proposed shall not be located within 500 feet of a zoning lot
containing another group care facility or adult day care facility.
   (3)   The following information shall be submitted as part of an application
for a special use permit for a group care facility or adult day care facility:
      a.   A description of the type of persons to be cared for and the nature
of the care to be provided; and
      b.   Plans for proposed structural alterations to existing structures or
new construction, including a complete description of the nature and extent of
these alterations or new construction.
   (4)   Standards of evaluation. The following standards shall be used in
evaluating an application under this section:
      a.   The proposed use is not within 500 feet of another existing family
care facility or group care facility;
      b.   Structural alterations shall be of such a nature as to preserve the
residential character of the building; and
      c.   If a state license or permit is required to operate such a facility,
the standards necessary to qualify for such a permit have been met.
   (f)   Junkyards and salvage operations. 
   (1)   The following information shall be submitted as part of an application
for a special use permit for junkyards and salvage operations:
      a.   Detailed plans and specifications for the site screening proposed.
      b.   Description of type and number of motorized machines to be employed
upon the site.
   (2)   The extent of area to be used for the storage of junked or wrecked
motor vehicles shall be indicated on the site plan.
   (3)   Standards of evaluation. The following specific standards shall be
used in evaluating an application under this section:
      a.   The site shall be screened from adjacent property by a minimum of an
eight-foot high solid fence or equal, uninterrupted except for required vehicle
access points;
      b.   No materials shall be stored closer than 100 feet to a public right-
of-way or 40 feet to any property lines;
      c.   The site shall be landscaped according to landscape standards as set
out in section
14-362; and
      d.   The site is of an adequate size so as to protect adjacent properties
from adverse effects of the junkyard.
   (g)   Kennels or riding stables/academies. 
   (1)   The following information shall be submitted as part of an application
for a special use permit for kennels or riding stables/academies:
      a.   A site plan showing the location of all proposed kennels, barns,
exercise yards, riding arenas, pens and related improvements; and
      b.   Existing structures on the same lot, and structures on adjacent
property.
   (2)   Standards of evaluation. The following specific standards shall be
used in evaluating an application under this section:
      a.   The site is of adequate size to protect adjacent properties from
adverse effects of the kennel or riding stable/academy;
      b.   No part of any building, structure, runway or riding arena, in which
animals are housed or exercised shall be closer than 150 feet from any property
line, except property occupied by the owner/operator of the kennel. These
minimum distances shall not apply if all portions of the facility, in which
animals are housed, are wholly enclosed within a building;
      c.   Any kennel which is not wholly enclosed within a building shall be
enclosed by a security fence at least six feet in height, which shall include
primary enclosures or runs; and
      d.   A site plan that shows parking, access areas and screening devices
for buildings and animal boarding facilities.
   (h)   Landfills/land application of sludge. 
   (1)   The following information shall be submitted as part of an application
for a special use permit for landfills and land applications of sludge:
      a.   Typical site cross sections showing extent of overburden, extent of
fill and water table elevation, based on mean sea level datum;
      b.   Location of proposed handling and storage areas for overburden,
byproducts and fill materials;
      c.   Proposed fencing, screening and gates, parking, service and other
areas;
      d.   Any areas proposed for ponding; and
      e.   Access roads to the site, as well as on-site roads, with indication
of surface treatment to limit dust. Sight distances shall be shown for all
roads used for access to the site.
   (2)   An operations plan shall be required which shall include:
      a.   The date of commencement of operations and their expected duration;
      b.   Proposed hours and days of operation;
      c.   A complete description of operation, including source of materials,
method of compaction, type of sealing proposed, types and number of equipment
to be used;
      d.   Any phasing of operations and relationship among phases; and
      e.   Operating practices to be followed to ensure compliance with
regulations of this article.
   (3)   A rehabilitation plan shall be required which shall include:
      a.   A statement of planned future use of the site, including detailed
methods of accomplishment.
      b.   A map, to the same scale as the site plan, showing final proposed
topography, landscaping and ground cover proposed and any drainage or other
structures proposed.
      c.   A phased plan of rehabilitation, related to the operations plan,
showing how the rehabilitation will relate to the fill operations and the date
of final completion.
   (4)   All operations associated with the fill shall conform to the following
performance standards:
      a.   Direct illumination resulting from the operation shall not fall upon
any land not covered by the application;
      b.   Equivalent sound levels at the boundaries of the fill site shall not
exceed the following standards:
         1.   Between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., 68 dBA;
         2.   Between 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., 58 dBA; and
         3.   Vibration levels at the boundaries of the fill site shall not
exceed a maximum peak particle velocity of steady state -1.0 inches/second, and
an impact -2.0 inches/second. NOTE: The maximum particle velocity shall be the
maximum displacement sums of three mutually perpendicular components, recorded
simultaneously, multiplied by the frequency in cycles per second. For purposes
of this section, steady-state vibrations are vibrations which are continuous,
or vibrations in discrete impulses more frequent than 60 per minutes. Discrete
impulses which do not exceed 60 per minute, shall be considered impact
vibrations.
   (5)   All permanent roads, defined as those to be used in excess of one
year, within the fill site shall be surfaced with a dustfree material, such as
soil cement, bituminous concrete or Portland cement concrete.
   (6)   Roads other than permanent roads shall be treated with dust
inhibitors, to be specified in the operations plan, which will reduce to a
minimum the generation of dust from the road surfaces as a result of wind or
vehicular traffic.
   (7)   Where the proposed fill shall take place within 300 feet of a
dwelling, school, church, hospital, commercial or industrial building, public
building, or public land, a security fence at least six feet high shall be
installed.
   (8)   The operations plan and the rehabilitation plan shall be coordinated
so that the amount of disturbed land is kept to the absolute minimum consonant
with good practices and so that rehabilitation proceeds in concert with
filling.
   (i)   Multi-family dwellings.
   (1)   Intensity regulations.
      a.   Interstate highway interchange. Multi-family residential development
is permitted at a density of eight dwelling units per acre of gross land area.
   (2)   Use requirements.
      a.   The minimum building setback shall be:
         1.   From a perimeter arterial or collector, 70 feet (perimeter means
any street existing at the time of approval of the planned development that is
outside, adjacent, or internal to remain to the planned development).
         2.   From a local street, 50 feet.
         3.   From any property line adjacent to any commercial or industrial
zoning district, 20 feet.
         4.   From any property line adjacent to a residential zoning district,
20 feet.
         5.   From any other structure, 10 feet.
      b.   The maximum building height limit shall be 50 feet.
      c.   Landscaping and buffering shall be in accordance with Johnston
County Design Manual, Section 6 and the following:
         1.   Landscape area "Type B" shall be provided along all arterial or
collector streets.
      d.   Parking and off-street loading shall be in accordance with Johnston
County Design Manual, Section 2 and the following:
         1.   Parking and loading uses shall not be permitted within 50 feet
from the right-of-way line of an arterial street or collector street, 20 feet
of a local street, or within 10 feet of any interior lot line.
         2.   From any access easement, 15 feet.
      e.   Sidewalks shall be a minimum of five-foot-wide ADA compliant
provided along all parking areas, to all residential buildings, and to all
common amenities.
      f.   Amenities shall be provided such as playgrounds, picnic shelters,
walking trails, and other like improvements to enhance common space. Amenities
shall be indicated in detail on the development drawings.
      g.   Dumpsters shall be enclosed with a fence of like materials as those
used to construct the residential buildings. Dumpster enclosures shall be
affixed with a gate and, shall be ADA compliant.
   (j)   Planned developments.
   (1)   Establishment of planned developments. Planned developments may be
established in any zoning district in accordance with the procedures and
general requirements set forth in article II and with the requirements
contained in this section. Planned developments shall be appropriately located
with respect to intended functions, pattern and timing of development indicated
in the comprehensive plan, and to public facilities, provided by the county or
a municipality, existing or clearly to be available by the time the development
reaches the stage where they will be needed.
   (2)   Relation to major transportation facilities. Planned developments
shall be located on a county-designated arterial or collector street and shall
be so designed as to provide direct access to the development without creating
significant traffic in residential neighborhoods outside the development.
   (3)   Relation to public facilities and services. Planned developments shall
be located in relation to sanitary sewers, water lines, storm and surface
drainage systems, and other utilities or installations. Such developments shall
be located with respect to necessary public facilities (schools, parks,
playgrounds, and other public services) and have access to such facilities in
the same degree as developments permitted under general regulations. However,
locations for planned developments failing to meet the criteria of this section
may be approved if the applicants provide private facilities, utilities, and
services equal to those provided by the county and approved by appropriate
public agencies as substituting on an equivalent basis. The applicant may make
payments to offset the cost of public funds to establish necessary public
services and facilities. Determinations of impacts or necessities shall be made
by the county or by experts acceptable to the county.
   (4)   Relation to physical character of the site. The site of a planned
development shall be suitable for development in the manner proposed without
hazards to persons or property, on or off site. Condition of soil, groundwater,
drainage, vegetation, and topography shall all be appropriate to both the kind
and pattern of use intended. If appropriate to the form of planned development,
lands to be included in planned developments may be divided by streets, alleys,
rights-of-way, or easements, which shall be located, dimensioned, and arranged
so as to permit unified planning and provide necessary protection against
adverse relationships between uses in the development and uses in the
surrounding areas.
   (5)   Relation to subdivision review. It is the intent of this section that
applicable subdivision review under the subdivision regulations be carried out
as an integral part of the review of a planned development. It is the further
intent of this section to permit the submittal of subdivision applications for
the whole planned development or for approved plans thereof. The form and
content of applications and plans submitted for such integrated review shall be
sufficient to satisfy requirements of the subdivision regulations as well as
those of this article.
   (6)   Reduction or increase in land areas. 
      a.   The minimum and maximum land areas required for zoning lots
containing the various classifications of planned development as specified in
this section may be reduced or increased by the board of commissioners in
accordance with the following provisions:
         1.   Reductions in the minimum land area required may be approved upon
findings in the particular case that special circumstances required such
reduction, that other requirements can be met in such reduced area, and that
such reduction shall not exceed ten percent of the area generally required.
         2.   Increases in the land area may be approved upon findings that the
requirements and intent of this article are met.
      b.   In reaching decisions on requests for reduction or increase in land
areas, the board of commissioners shall be guided by the provisions of the
comprehensive plan and the protection of the public health, safety and general
welfare of present and future occupants of the proposed development and the
surrounding areas.
   (7)   Permitted modifications of regulations. Where actions, designs, or
solutions proposed by the applicant are not literally in accord with applicable
planned development regulations, general regulations, or other regulations of
this article, but the board of commissioners makes a finding in the particular
case that the public purposes are satisfied to an equivalent or greater degree,
the commissioners may make specific modification of the regulations in the
particular case. Any modifications of regulations shall be explicitly indicated
in the approval of a planned development.
   (k)   Planned development-housing (PDH). The following regulations and
requirements apply to a planned development-housing (PDH), defined for purposes
of this article as a planned development primarily for dwellings and related
uses and facilities.
   (1)   Intent. With respect to timing of development of a particular PDH, it
is intended that in addition to other policies and limitations set forth in
this article, consideration shall be given to general housing needs in the
county as a whole and in the subcommunity in which the development is proposed,
and the need for particular types of housing. In such consideration, due weight
shall be given to availability of existing supply of housing types for which
there is evident need in view of the age and economic characteristics of the
population, and to the amount and types of potential housing being developed,
and to adequate capacity of public water supply and public sewer. PDH projects
may contain a mix of single- and multifamily dwelling units. PDH developments
shall be located in the Interstate Highway Interchange district, or sewer
service area.
   (2)   Minimum land area. The minimum land area required for a zoning lot
containing a PDH shall be 100 acres.
   (3)   Permitted uses. The principal and accessory uses of land or structures
within a PDH shall be as follows:
      a.   Dwelling, single-family.
      b.   Dwelling, two-family (duplex). Note: Counted as one unit in density
calculations.
      c.   Multifamily (12 dwelling units per acre density maximum) (permitted
only within the Interstate Highway Interchange district).
      d.   Residential support facilities (clubhouses, pools, recreation
areas).
      e.   Schools.
      f.   Public service facilities (fire, EMS, and police stations, or
utility structures).
      g.   Home occupation.
      h.   Accessory use customarily incidental to a permitted use.
   (4)   Intensity regulations.
      a.   Interstate Highway Interchange.  Residential development is
permitted at an overall density of six dwelling units per acre of gross land
area. If only single- and two-family housing types are planned, an overall
density of four units per acre is permitted.
      b.   Sewer Service Area. Residential development is permitted at an
overall density of 1.5 dwelling units per acre of gross land area.
   (5)   Use requirements. 
      a.   The minimum building setback shall be:
         1.   From a perimeter arterial, collector, or local street, 50 feet.
(Perimeter means any street existing at the time of approval of the planned
development that is outside, adjacent, or internal to remain to the planned
development).
         2.   From any perimeter lot line, 50 feet.
         3.   For multifamily buildings immediately adjacent to an external
residential zoning district, 50 feet.
         4.   All other setbacks internal to the planned development can be
established by the developer. The minimum building setbacks shall be recorded
on the final plat. The proposed setbacks shall be provided as part of master
plan approval.
      b.   The maximum building height limit shall be 50 feet.
      c.   A landscape buffer shall be required as follows:
         1.   A landscaped buffer shall be required along all existing
arterial, collector and local streets, and dedicated to common open space:
            a)   Landscape area "A" with the use of a four- to eight-foot
landscape berm, decorative wall, or opaque fence; excluding a wooden fence.
            b)   Landscape area "B" with the use of only plant material.
            c)   The natural existing vegetation may be used if the density
meets or exceeds the landscape area "B" requirements and remains undisturbed.
         2.   Along all perimeter lines a landscape area "A" or natural area
equivalent.
         3.   Along all perimeter lines adjacent to commercial uses a landscape
area "B" or natural area equivalent.
   (6)   Provision of common open space or recreation area requirements. All
planned unit developments shall provide or dedicate common open space or
recreation areas suitable for the resident's common passive or active
recreational use as follows:
      a.   For a planned unit development, its total open space or recreation
land area shall be at least 15 percent of the total gross land area of the
development. All wetlands and/or riparian buffer areas shall be designated as
common open space, however, these areas will not count toward the amount of
required open space. The board of commissioners may accept alternatives to
these minimum requirements with the use of public or private amenities.
         Any proposed reduction or area exchange involving previously recorded
open space must be approved by the planning board. The applicant must provide
sufficient information on why the change is requested and why no other
alternative exists.
         The developer shall record a document specific to the responsibility
and continued maintenance of common open space and recreation areas. This may
be part of restrictive conveyances or a separate document. The document shall
contain the content as required by the design manual.
      b.   At minimum, 50 percent of the total amount of open space required
shall be provided and located throughout the residential area. These integrated
areas shall be no less than 20,000 square feet and designed as to invite
residents for passive and/or active recreation uses. A mix of designs shall be
encouraged such as neighborhood parks, playgrounds; and corridors for walking
trails. A portion of these areas may be built upon for amenities.
      c.   A summary of amenities must be provided upon PDM submittal. The
summary shall contain the content as required by the design manual. A phasing
plan for amenities shall be provided and amenities shall at minimum be phased
with the construction of the dwelling units. Once 25 percent of the dwelling
units have been constructed a minimum of 25 percent of the amenities must be
completed.
      d.   At minimum, 50 percent of the amenities required shall be provided
at 50 percent dwelling unit construction, and 75 percent of the amenities at 75
percent dwelling unit construction. Amenity locations and type shall be noted
on the final plat at recording. Any change to previously recorded amenities
must be approved by the planning board.
      e.   Amenities shall be of a type which enhances the use of the open
space. These types shall include: playgrounds; parks with shelters, benches,
managed turf fields; walking/running trails; clubhouses; pools; tennis/ball
courts; golf courses; and other like improvements.
      f.   Land provided or dedicated for common open space or recreation
purposes shall be designated on a final plat duly recorded with the county
register of deeds. Such common open space land may be dedicated or deeded to an
appropriate public body upon their acceptance, land trust, nonprofit, or for
profit organization established for the purpose of land conservation or
recreational purposes; or create a neighborhood or homeowner's association for
the continuing maintenance and control of common open space or recreation area;
or, held by the owner subject to the recording of a permanent conservation
easement or similar open space or recreational land dedication.
   (7)   Payments in lieu of provision or dedication. In lieu of providing or
dedicating the required minimum common open space or recreation area required
pursuant to this section, a developer of a subdivision or planned development
may, with the approval of the board of commissioners, where appropriate, make a
payment to the county whereby the county may acquire common open space land.
The county shall use such payment only for the acquisition or development of
open space, recreation, or park sites to serve residents of the county. The
amount of the payment shall be the product of the total number of dwelling
units recorded multiplied by the fee established in the county's annual
schedule of fees. The developer shall make the payment before approval of a
final plat.
   (8)   Design standards. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the
design standards applicable within a PHD shall be as established in the county
design manual and articles III and VI, with the following additions:
      a.   [Transitions between lots.] Where a PDH zoning lot adjoins land that
is zoned residential and developed with lots of a size which limits their use
to single-family detached residences, an appropriate transition between the PDH
and the adjoining single-family lots shall be provided. An appropriate
transition shall consist of a landscape area type "A".
      b.   [Vehicular access.] Vehicular access to streets shall be limited and
controlled as follows:
         1.   If the street or portion of the street serves 50 or fewer
dwelling units, vehicular access from off-street parking and service areas may
be directed to the street from the sites of individual dwelling units.
Determination of number of dwelling units served shall be based on normal
routes of traffic anticipated in the development; and
         2.   Vehicular access to other streets or portions of streets from
off-street parking and service areas shall be so combined, limited, located,
designed and controlled as to channel traffic in a manner which minimizes
marginal traffic friction and promotes free flow of traffic on streets without
excessive interruption.
      c.   Street sidewalks. A minimum five-foot-wide ADA-compliant sidewalk
shall be provided along both sides of the street throughout the residential
areas of the development.
         1.   The sidewalk, where situations permit, shall be at the edge of
the right-of-way, creating a minimum six-foot separation between the edge of
pavement and edge of sidewalk. If curb and gutter is utilized then the sidewalk
shall be at least two feet from the back of curb. Where necessary, sidewalks
easements may be utilized due to constraints with topography.
         2.   Crosswalks shall be provided, where necessary, to provide
organized and efficient circulation within the development.
         3.   Where sidewalks are proposed between residential lots used to
connect areas within the development, ten foot fee simple open space shall be
utilized.
   (9)   Alternative energy systems. Provisions of sections
14-115 through
14-119 shall apply.
   (l)   Planned development-mixed use (PDM). The following regulations and
requirements apply to a planned development-mixed use, defined for purposes of
this article as a planned development that provides for the coordinated and
balanced development of residential, office and commercial uses and their
necessary support functions. Planned development mixed-use shall only be
permitted within the Interstate Highway Interchange overlay district.
   (1)   Intent. It is intended that the PDM shall encourage development within
which mutually supporting residential, commercial and office uses are scaled,
balanced, and located to reduce general traffic congestion by providing housing
close to principal destinations, thereby allowing multiple destinations to be
achieved with a single trip. When such mixed use developments adjoin
residential developments or residential zoning districts, it is intended that
arrangement of buildings, uses, open space, and vehicular access shall be such
as to provide appropriate transition and reduce potentially adverse effects.
   (2)   Mixed use thresholds. All development in a PDM shall conform to the
following thresholds:
      a.   Minimum parcel or tract size.
         1.   Minimum of 25 acres for developments which utilizes:
            a)   Private wastewater treatment and disposal system, or a private
wastewater pump station which discharges in to a public sewer system, upon
approval by the public utilities department; or
            b)   Wastewater system which can utilize gravity flow into an
existing public sewer system.
      b.   Uses proposed in one of the following combinations.
         1.   Office, commercial, and residential uses.
         2.   Office and residential uses.
         3.   Commercial and residential uses.
      c.   [Dwelling types.] A mix of residential dwelling types shall be
included.
      d.   [Percentage of residential use.] At least 40 percent, and no more
then 70 percent, of the land or building floor area must be devoted to
residential uses, as defined in this chapter.
   (3)   Permitted uses. 
      a.   The following uses are permitted as a principal use:
         1.   All uses permitted as a principal use in the following:
            a)   Agricultural Residential district (AR), these areas shall be
designated as AR-SUD on the zoning atlas.
            b)   Office and Institutional and Business Zoning districts (to
exclude Industrial districts), these areas shall be described by metes and
bounds and designated GB-SUD on the zoning atlas.
         2.   Single-family, townhouse and duplex residential dwellings with a
maximum number of six dwelling units per acre. Note: Duplex and townhouse units
are counted as one unit in density calculations.
         3.   Multifamily dwellings with a maximum number of 12 dwelling units
per acre.
         4.   Residential support facilities (club houses, pools, recreation
areas).
         5.   Public service facilities (fire, EMS, and police stations, or
utility stations).
      b.   The following uses are not permitted in a planned development-mixed
use development:
         1.   Automotive repair mechanical, paint/body.
         2.   Bar/club.
         3.   Building materials/supplies—Masonry, lumber yard, wholesales
[wholesalers].
         4.   Contractors office/storage yard.
         5.   Kennel.
         6.   Mini-storage.
         7.   Sales/rental—Automotive, recreational vehicle, farm implement,
boat, mobile/modular home.
         8.   Warehousing/outdoor storage yard.
   (4)   Use requirements. 
      a.   The minimum building setback shall be:
         1.   For nonresidential buildings from a perimeter arterial,
collector, or local street, 50 feet. (Perimeter means any street existing at
the time of approval of the planned development that is outside, adjacent, or
internal to remain to the planned development).
         2.   For a residential structure from a perimeter arterial, collector,
or local street, 50 feet.
         3.   For residential and nonresidential buildings from any perimeter
lot line, 50 feet.
         4.   All other setbacks internal to the planned development can be
established by the developer. The minimum building setbacks shall be recorded
on the final plat. The proposed setbacks shall be provided as part of master
plan approval.
      b.   The minimum setback from the perimeter boundary for a parking lot or
internal driveway shall be 30 feet.
      c.   The maximum building height limit shall be 50 feet.
      d.   A landscape buffer shall be required as follows:
         1.   For residential areas, a landscaped buffer shall be required
along all arterial and collector and local streets, and dedicated to common
open space:
            a)   Landscape area "A" with the use of a four- to eight-foot
landscape berm, decorative wall, or opaque fence; excluding a wooden fence.
            b)   Landscape area "B" with the use of only plant material.
            c)   The natural existing vegetation may be used if the density
meets or exceeds the landscape area "B" requirements and remains undisturbed.
         2.   For office/commercial areas a landscaped buffer shall be required
along all existing arterial, collector and local streets in accordance with the
landscaping section of the design manual.
         3.   A landscape area "B" adjacent to all perimeter lot lines, where
commercial uses, as part of the PMD, abuts adjacent residential uses. A
landscape area "A" adjacent to all perimeter lot lines, where commercial uses,
as part of the PMD, abuts adjacent commercial uses.
         4.   A landscape area "B" shall be used between the commercial and
residential areas within the PDM.
         5.   Along all perimeter lines a landscape area "A" or natural area
equivalent.
   (5)   Provision of common open space or recreation area requirements. All
planned unit developments-mixed uses shall provide or dedicate common open
space or recreation areas suitable for the resident's common passive or active
recreational use as follows:
      a.   For a PDM, its total open space or recreation land area shall be at
least 20 percent of the total gross land area of the development. All wetlands
and/or riparian buffer areas shall be designated as common open space, however,
these areas will not count toward the amount of required open space. The board
of commissioners may accept alternatives to these minimum requirements with the
use of public or private amenities.
   Any proposed reduction or area exchange involving previously recorded open
space or amenities must be approved by the planning board. The applicant must
provide sufficient information on why the change is requested and why no other
alternative exists.
   The developer shall record a document specific to the responsibility and
continued maintenance of common open space and recreation areas. This may be
part of restrictive conveyances or a separate document. The document shall
contain the content as required by the design manual. A separation of
responsibility shall be established for residential and commercial common
areas.
      b.   At minimum, 50 percent of the total amount of open space required
shall be located throughout the residential area. These integrated areas shall
be no less than 20,000 square feet and designed as to invite residents for
passive and/or active recreation uses. A mix of designs shall be encouraged
such as neighborhood parks, playgrounds; and corridors for walking trails. A
portion of these areas may be built upon for amenities.
      c.   A summary of amenities must be provided upon PDM submittal. The
summary shall contain the content as required by the design manual. A phasing
plan for amenities shall be provided and amenities shall at minimum be phased
with the construction of the dwelling units. Once 25 percent of the dwelling
units have been constructed a minimum of 25 percent of the amenities must be
completed. Additionally as development progresses 50 percent of the amenities
are required at 50 percent dwelling unit construction, and 75 percent of
amenities to be completed at 75 percent dwelling unit construction. Amenity
locations and type shall be noted on the final plat at recording. Any change to
previously recorded amenities must be approved by the planning board.
      d.   Amenities shall be of a type which enhances the use of the open
space. These types shall include: playgrounds; parks with shelters, benches,
managed turf fields; walking/running trails; clubhouses; pools; tennis/ball
courts; golf courses; and other like improvements.
      e.   Land provided or dedicated for common open space or recreation
purposes shall be designated on a final plat duly recorded with the county
register of deeds. Such common open space land may be dedicated or deeded to an
appropriate public body upon their acceptance, land trust, nonprofit, or for
profit organization established for the purpose of land conservation or
recreational purposes; or create a neighborhood or homeowner's association for
the continuing maintenance and control of common open space or recreation area;
or, held by the owner subject to the recording of a permanent conservation
easement or similar open space or recreational land dedication.
   (6)   Payments in lieu of provision or dedication. In lieu of providing or
dedicating the required minimum common open space or recreation area required
pursuant to this section, a developer of a subdivision or planned development
may, with the approval of the board of commissioners, where appropriate, make a
payment to the county whereby the county may acquire common open space land.
The county shall use such payment only for the acquisition or development of
open space, recreation, or park sites to serve residents of the county. The
amount of the payment shall be the product of the total number of dwelling
units recorded multiplied by the fee established in the county's annual
schedule of fees. The developer shall make the payment before approval of a
final plat.
   (7)   Design standards. All design standards specified in articles III and
VI and in the county's design manual in effect at the time a proposal is being
reviewed shall apply to the design of PDM as defined by this article with the
following provisions:
      a.   Site analysis. Any application for mixed use development shall
include a site evaluation analysis which identifies the physical character and
structure of the site. Elements of the site to be investigated include
topography, soil conditions, slope conditions, drainage patterns, vegetation,
subsurface constraints, and any other existing conditions.
      b.   Street sidewalks. A minimum five-foot-wide ADA compliant sidewalk
shall be provided along both sides of the street throughout the residential
areas and connecting to the commercial areas of the development.
         1.   The sidewalk, where situations permit, shall be at the edge of
the right-of-way, creating a minimum six-foot separation between the edge of
pavement and edge of sidewalk. If curb and gutter is utilized then the sidewalk
shall be at least two feet from the back of curb. Where necessary, sidewalks
easements may be utilized due to constraints with topography.
         2.   Crosswalks shall be provided, where necessary, to provided
organized and efficient circulation within the development.
         3.   Where sidewalks are proposed between residential lots used to
connect areas within the development, ten-foot fee simple open space shall be
utilized.
   (8)   Additions to approved planned development-mixed use. Development
tracts of at least 20 acres can meet the mixed use threshold in the following
manner:
      a.   Development is proposed on a tract of land that is at least 20 acres
(may include parcels on both sides of a public street if at least ten acres of
the total are located on both sides of the street).
      b.   The proposed development tract is adjacent to, or across a public
street from, a planned development-mixed use that has been approved by the
board of commissioners in accordance with the provisions of this article.
      c.   The proposed uses, circulation patterns and buffers are demonstrated
to be compatible with the adjacent approved mixed use development. In addition,
landscape treatments and architecture shall be in harmony and compatible with
the adjacent approved mixed use development to the extent such landscape
treatments and architecture have been specified in the adjacent special use
permit approved by the board of commissioners. Uses for the proposed tract
shall conform to requirements of this chapter.
   (9)   Alternative energy systems. Provisions of sections
14-115 through
14-119 shall apply to all residential areas, and provisions of sections. 14-121
and
14-122 shall apply to all commercial areas.
   (m)   Public utility-electric, gas and liquid fuel transmission lines. 
   (1)   Submittals. The following information shall be submitted as part of an
application for a special use permit for public utilities:
      a.   A site plan showing all existing and proposed structures within the
site of the line, as well as all existing structures within 50 feet of the
boundaries of the site.
      b.   A plan of erosion and sediment controls for the site.
      c.   Typical cross sections for the installation showing elevation of all
structures and existing and proposed topography.
      d.   Plans and elevations of all proposed structures and descriptions of
the color and nature of all exterior materials.
      e.   Certification by the applicant that it is a public utility and a
statement that the proposed installation is necessary to accomplish its public
utility function and that public convenience and necessity will be served by
the proposed installation.
   (2)   Standards of evaluation. The following specific standards shall be
used in evaluating an application under this section:
      a.   That adequate provision has been made to protect adjacent property
from the dangers of explosion, rupture, collapse, fire or other menaces to
public health and safety; and
      b.   That the public convenience and necessity shall be served by this
proposed installation, if installed as proposed.
   (n)   Public utility stations and substations, water treatment, and sewage
treatment plant. 
   (1)   Submittals. The following information shall be submitted as part of an
application for a special use permit for public utility stations and
substations, water treatment, and sewage treatment plants:
      a.   A site plan showing all existing or proposed buildings, storage
areas, parking and access areas, topography at a contour interval of five feet,
and any officially designated floodplains or alluvial soils;
      b.   Plans and elevations for all proposed structures and descriptions of
the color and nature of all exterior materials; and
      c.   A landscape plan, at the same scale as the site plan showing
existing and proposed trees, shrubs, ground cover and other landscape material.
   (2)   Standards of evaluation. The following standards shall be used in
evaluating an application for a special use permit:
      a.   Where a building is involved and it is proposed to be located in a
residentially zoned district, it shall have the appearance suitable for a
residential district, or it shall be screened from adjacent residential land.
      b.   Where buildings are set back from road rights-of-way or from private
property lines by a distance of 200 feet screening will not be required.
      c.   All outside storage areas are fenced and screened from adjacent
residentially developed areas.
      d.   The site is of adequate size for the sewage disposal system proposed
and for the proposed use.
   (o)   Special use permit; wireless communication receiving/transmitting
towers (cellular towers). 
   (1)   Purpose and legislative intent. The Telecommunications Act of 1996
affirmed the County of Johnston's authority concerning the placement,
construction and modification of wireless telecommunications facilities. North
Carolina General Statutes governing the regulation of wireless
telecommunication facilities, Chapter 160D, Article 9, Part 3, provide for the
safe and efficient integration of facilities necessary for the provision of
advanced wireless telecommunications services throughout the community and to
ensure the ready availability of reliable wireless services to the public,
government agencies and first responders, with the intention of furthering the
public safety and general welfare.
   The County of Johnston finds that wireless telecommunications facilities may
pose significant concerns to the health, safety, public welfare, character and
environment of the county and its inhabitants, including but not limited to
adjacent and nearby property owners. The county also recognizes that
facilitating the development of wireless service technology can be an economic
development asset to the county and of significant benefit to the county and
its residents. In order to insure that the placement, construction or
modification of wireless telecommunications facilities is consistent with the
county's land use policies, the county is adopting a single, comprehensive,
wireless telecommunications facilities application and permitting process. The
intent of this section is to minimize the physical impact of wireless
telecommunications facilities on the community, protect the character of the
community to the extent reasonably possible, establish a fair and efficient
process for review and approval of applications, assure an integrated,
comprehensive review of environmental impacts of such facilities, and protect
the health, safety and welfare of the county.
   (2)   Severability. 
      a.   If any word, phrase, sentence, part, section, subsection, or other
portion of this section or any application thereof to any person or
circumstance is declared void, unconstitutional, or invalid for any reason,
then such word, phrase, sentence, part, section, subsection, or other portion,
or the proscribed application thereof, shall be severable, and the remaining
provisions of this section, and all applications thereof, not having been
declared void, unconstitutional, or invalid, shall remain in full force and
effect.
      b.   Any special use permit issued under this section shall be
comprehensive and not severable. If part of a permit is deemed or ruled to be
invalid or unenforceable in any material respect, by a competent authority, or
is overturned by a competent authority, the permit shall be void in total, upon
determination by the county.
   (3)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, and where not inconsistent
with the context of a particular section, the defined terms, phrases, words,
abbreviations, and their derivations shall have the meaning given in this
section. When not inconsistent with the context, words in the present tense
include the future tense, words used in the plural number include words in the
singular number and words in the singular number include the plural number. The
word "shall" is always mandatory, and not merely directory.
   Accessory facility or structure means an accessory facility or structure
serving or being used in conjunction with wireless telecommunications
facilities, and located on the same property or lot as the wireless
telecommunications facilities, including but not limited to, utility or
transmission equipment storage sheds or cabinets.
   Amend or amended means any change in an application made subsequent to the
submission of the application from that which was originally submitted,
regardless of the reason.
   Antenna means a system of electrical conductors that transmit or receive
electromagnetic waves or radio frequency or other wireless signals.
   Applicant means any wireless service provider submitting an application for
a special use permit for wireless telecommunications facilities.
   Application means all necessary and required documentation that an applicant
submits in order to receive a special use permit or a building permit for
wireless telecommunications facilities.
   Board means the board of commissioners.
   Collocation means the placement, installation, maintenance, modification,
operation, or replacement of wireless facilities on, under, within, or on the
surface of the earth adjacent to existing structures, including utility poles,
city utility poles, water towers, buildings, and other structures capable of
structurally supporting the attachment of wireless facilities in compliance
with applicable codes. The term does not include the installation of new
utility poles or wireless support structures.
   Commercial impracticability or commercially impracticable means the
inability to perform an act on terms that are reasonable in commerce; the cause
or occurrence of which could not have been reasonably anticipated or foreseen
and that jeopardizes the financial efficacy of the project. The inability to
achieve a satisfactory financial return on investment or profit, standing
alone, shall not deem a situation to be "commercial impracticable" and shall
not render an act or the terms of an agreement "commercially impracticable".
   Completed application means an application that contains all necessary and
required information and/or data necessary to enable an informed decision to be
made with respect to an application.
   Concealment techniques or concealment technology means a design or treatment
that minimizes adverse aesthetic and visual impacts on the land, property,
buildings, and other facilities adjacent to, surrounding, and in generally the
same area as the requested location of such wireless telecommunications
facilities, which shall mean using the least visually and physically intrusive
facility that is not technologically or commercially impracticable under the
facts and circumstances. Concealment techniques could include, but not limited
to, alternate structures or alternate landscape designs, access road placement,
color, etc. to make the tower less visually obtrusive.
   Consultant fee(s) shall be set by the board of commissioners and set forth
in the county's schedule of fees.
   DAS or distributive access system means a technology using antenna combining
technology allowing for multiple carriers or wireless service providers to use
the same set of antennas, cabling or fiber optics.
   FAA means the Federal Aviation Administration, or its duly designated and
authorized successor agency.
   FCC means the Federal Communications Commission, or its duly designated and
authorized successor agency.
   Height means, when referring to a tower or structure, the distance measured
from the pre-existing grade level to the highest point on the tower or
structure, even if said highest point is an antenna or lightning protection
device.
   Maintenance means plumbing, electrical or mechanical work that may require a
building permit but that does not constitute a modification to the wireless
telecommunications facility.
   Modification or modify means the addition, removal or change of any of the
physical and visually discernable components or aspects of a wireless facility,
such as antennas, cabling, equipment shelters, landscaping, fencing, utility
feeds, changing the color or materials of any visually discernable components,
vehicular access, parking and/or an upgrade or changeout of equipment for
better or more modern equipment. Adding a new wireless carrier or service
provider to a telecommunications tower or telecommunications site as a
collocation is a modification.
   Necessary means what is technologically required for the equipment to
function as designed by the manufacturer and that anything less will result in
prohibiting or acting in a manner that prohibits the provision of service as
intended and described in the narrative of the application. Necessary does not
mean what may be desired or preferred technically.
   NIER means nonionizing electromagnetic radiation.
   Person means any individual, corporation, estate, trust, partnership, joint
stock company, association of two or more persons having a joint common
interest, or any other entity.
   Personal wireless facility. See definition for Wireless telecommunications
facilities.
   Personal wireless services or PWS or personal telecommunications service or
PTS shall have the same meaning as defined and used in the 1996
Telecommunications Act.
   Repairs and maintenance means the replacement or repair of any components of
a wireless facility where the replacement is identical to the component being
replaced or for any matters that involve the normal repair and maintenance of a
wireless facility without the addition, removal or change of any of the
physical or visually discernable components or aspects of a wireless facility
that will add to the visible appearance of the facility as originally
permitted.
   Special use permit means the official document or permit by which an
applicant is allowed to file for a building permit to construct and use
wireless telecommunications facilities as granted or issued by the county.
   State means the State of North Carolina.
   Streamlined processing means expedited review of certain applications in
accordance with applicable state or federal law.
   Substantial modification is defined by G.S. 160D-931(19) to include the
following parameters:
   1. The proposed collocation shall not increase the overall height and width
of the tower or support structure to which the proposed collocation
infrastructure is to be attached by the greater of (i) more than ten (10%)
percent or (ii) the height of an additional antenna array with separation from
the next antenna array of not more than 20 feet.
   2. The collocation shall not increase the ground space area approved in the
communications tower site plan for equipment enclosures and ancillary
facilities by more than 2,500 square feet.
   3. Except where necessary to shelter the antenna from inclement weather or
to connect the antenna to the tower via cable, adding an appurtenance to the
body of a tower that protrudes horizontally from the edge of the tower the
greater of (i) more than 20 feet or (ii) more than the width of the tower at
the level of the appurtenance.
   Telecommunications means the transmission and/or reception of audio, video,
data, and other information by wire, radio frequency, light, and other
electronic or electromagnetic systems.
   Telecommunication Site. See definition for "Wireless telecommunications
facilities".
   Telecommunications Structure means a structure used in the provision of
services described in the definition of "Wireless telecommunications
facilities".
   Temporary means temporary in relation to all aspects and components of this
chapter, something intended to, or that does, exist for fewer than 90 days.
   Tower means any structure designed primarily to support an antenna for
receiving and/or transmitting a wireless signal.
   Wireless telecommunications facilities or facilities means and includes a
"telecommunications site" and "personal wireless facility". It means a
structure, facility or location designed, or intended to be used as, or used to
support antennas or other transmitting or receiving devices. This includes,
without limit, towers of all types, kinds and structures, including, but not
limited to, buildings, church steeples, silos, water towers, signs or other
structures that can be used as a support structure for antennas or the
functional equivalent of such. It further includes all related facilities and
equipment such as cabling, equipment shelters and other structures associated
with the facility. It is a structure and facility intended for transmitting
and/or receiving radio, television, cellular, SMR, paging, 911, personal
communications services (PCS), commercial satellite services, microwave
services and any commercial wireless telecommunication service not licensed by
the FCC.
   (4)   Overall procedure and desired outcomes for approving and issuing
permits for wireless telecommunications facilities. In order to ensure that the
placement, construction, and modification of wireless telecommunications
facilities protect the county's health, safety, public welfare, environmental
features, the nature and character of the community and neighborhood and other
aspects of the quality of life specifically listed elsewhere in this section,
the county hereby adopts an overall policy with respect to the review, approval
and issuance of permits for wireless telecommunications facilities for the
express purpose of achieving the following outcomes:
      a.   Requiring a special use permit for any new wireless
telecommunications facility as required or otherwise specified in this section.
      b.   Implementing an application process for person(s) seeking approval
of wireless telecommunications facilities.
      c.   Establishing a procedure for examining an application and issuing a
special use permit and/or building permit for wireless telecommunications
facilities that is both fair and consistent.
      d.   Promoting, and requiring wherever possible, the sharing and/or
collocation of wireless telecommunications facilities among service providers.
      e.   Requiring, promoting and encouraging, wherever possible, the
placement, height and quantity of wireless telecommunications facilities in
such a manner as to minimize the physical and visual impact on the community,
including, but not limited to, the use of concealment technology.
      f.   In approving a wireless telecommunications facility, the county
shall find that the facility shall be the most appropriate site in regards to
being the least visually intrusive within the subject property.
   (5)   Exceptions from a special use permit for wireless telecommunications
facilities. 
      a.    No person shall be permitted to site, place, build, construct,
modify or prepare any site for the placement or use of a wireless
telecommunications facility as of the effective date of this section without
having first obtained a special use permit for a wireless telecommunications
facility as defined in part 4 [subsection (4)], an administratively granted
authorization (building permit) as defined in part 8 [subsection (8)], or an
administratively granted authorization (building permit) for streamlined
processing applications as defined in part 8 [subsection (8)], whichever is
applicable. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this section, no
special use permit shall be required for those noncommercial exceptions noted
in part 6 [subsection (6)], unless deemed in the public interest by the county
manager.
      b.   If constructed as required by permit, all legally permitted wireless
telecommunications facilities that existed on or before the effective date of
this section shall be allowed to continue as they presently exist, provided
however, that they are operating as originally permitted and that any
modification of an existing wireless telecommunications facility not permitted
under this section will require the complete facility and any new installation
to comply with the provisions of this Ordinance, as will anything changing the
structural load.
      c.   Any repair and maintenance of a wireless telecommunications facility
that does not increase the height of the structure, alter the profile, increase
the footprint or otherwise exceed the conditions of the special use permit does
not require an application for a special use permit but may require a building
permit. However, no additional construction or site modification shall be
considered to be repair and maintenance.
   (6)   Exclusions. The following shall be exempt from this section:
      a.   Any facilities expressly exempt from the county's siting, building
and permitting authority.
      b.   Any reception or transmission devises expressly exempted under the
Telecommunications Act of 1996.
      c.   Facilities used exclusively for private, noncommercial radio and
television reception and private citizen's bands, licensed amateur radio and
other similar noncommercial telecommunications.
      d.   Facilities used exclusively for providing unlicensed spread spectrum
technologies, such as IEEE 802.11a, b, g services (e.g. Wi-Fi and Bluetooth)
where the facility does not require a new tower or increase the height of the
structure being attached to.
   (7)   Special use permit application and other requirements for a new
wireless telecommunications tower.
      a.   All applicants for a special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities, including new towers or support structures or
substantial modification shall comply with the requirements set forth in this
section. The county board of commissioners (board) is the officially designated
agency or body of the county to whom applications for a special use permit for
wireless telecommunications facilities must be made, and that is authorized to
review, analyze, evaluate and make decisions with respect to granting or not
granting or revoking special use permits for wireless telecommunications
facilities. The board may at its discretion delegate or designate the county
planning board or other official agencies or officials of the county or outside
consultants to accept, review, analyze, evaluate and make recommendations to
the board with respect to the granting or not granting or revoking special use
permits for wireless telecommunications facilities. However, outside
consultants shall have no authority to make or change policy for the county.
   Placement of wireless telecommunications towers and facilities within major
subdivisions or within intended service areas with existing or planned medium
to high residential density, or areas identified as potential high density
area, must employ concealment techniques.
   Note: Medium-density, high-density or potentially high-density residential
areas shall be defined as areas shown as primary or secondary growth areas in
the county’s adopted comprehensive plan.
      b.   The applicant shall be notified in writing within 45 days of
submission of an application as to the completeness of the wireless
telecommunications facility application and any deficiencies. An amended
application shall be required to correct any deficiencies.
      c.   When placing wireless facilities on government-owned property or
facilities, only noncommercial wireless carriers and users are exempt from the
permitting requirements of this section.
      d.   The county may deny applications not meeting the requirements stated
herein or which are otherwise not complete. In the event the application is
denied, the special use permit application fee is not refundable.
      e.   No wireless telecommunications facilities shall be installed,
constructed or modified until the application is reviewed and approved by the
board, and the special use permit has been approved and a building permit has
been issued.
      f.   Any and all representations made by the applicant to the board on
the record during the application process, whether written or verbal, shall be
deemed to have been relied upon in good faith by the county. Any verbal
representation shall be treated as if it were made in writing.
      g.   An application for a special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities shall be signed on behalf of the applicant by the
person vested with the authority to bind and commit the applicant to the
conditions of the special use permit and the person preparing the same and with
knowledge of the contents and representations made therein and attesting to the
truth and completeness of the information.
      h.   The applicant must provide documentation to verify it has the right
to proceed as proposed on the site. This requires an executed copy of the lease
with the landowner or landlord or a signed letter of agency acknowledging
authorization. If the applicant owns the site, a copy of the ownership record
is required.
      i.   The applicant shall include a statement in writing:
         1.   That the applicant's proposed wireless telecommunications
facilities shall be maintained in a safe manner, and in compliance with all
conditions of the special use permit, without exception, unless specifically
granted relief by the board in writing, as well as all applicable and
permissible local codes, ordinances, and regulations, including any and all
applicable county, state and federal laws, rules, and regulations; and
         2.   That the construction of the wireless telecommunications
facilities is legally permissible, including, but not limited to the fact that
the Applicant is authorized to do business in the state.
      j.   Where a certification is called for in this Section, such
certification shall bear the signature and seal of a Professional Engineer
licensed in the State.
      k.   In addition to all other required information as stated in this
Section, all applications for the construction or installation of new Wireless
Telecommunications Facilities or modification of an existing facility shall
contain the information hereinafter set forth prior to the issuance of a
Building Permit.
         Ownership and Management: 
         1.   The name, address and phone number of the person preparing the
application;
         2.   The name, address, and phone number of the property owner and the
applicant, including the legal name of the applicant. If the owner of the
structure is different than the applicant, the name and all necessary contact
information shall be provided;
         3.   The postal address and tax map parcel number of the property;
         4.   A copy of the FCC license applicable for the intended use of the
wireless telecommunications facilities;
         5.   Written acknowledgement that any new telecommunications tower
shall be structurally designed to accommodate a minimum of six antenna arrays
and shall be managed so as to not restrict, prevent or prohibit competition
among carriers, unless the governing body has granted a reduction in the number
of antenna arrays for towers below 200'.
         6.   The applicant shall disclose in writing any agreement in
existence prior to submission of the application that would limit or preclude
the ability of the applicant to share any new telecommunications tower that it
constructs;
         Zoning and Planning: 
         7.   The zoning district or designation in which the property is
situated;
         8.   The size of the property footprint on which the structure to be
built or attached is located, stated both in square feet and lot line
dimensions, and a survey showing the location of all lot lines;
         9.   The location, size and height of all existing and proposed
structures on the property on which the structure is located and that is the
subject of the application;
         10.   A site plan showing the footprint and type, location and
dimensions of access drive, landscaping and buffers, fencing and any other
requirement of site plans;
         11.   Elevations showing the profile or the vertical rendition of the
wireless telecommunications facility identifying proposed attachments and all
related fixtures, structures, appurtenances and apparatus, including the height
above the pre-existing grade, materials, color and lighting;
         12.   The azimuth, size and center line height location of all
proposed antennas on the supporting structure;
         13.   Technical information regarding noise and/or sound generated by
any generators or other equipment to be used on site, if applicable; if
multiple generators are to be used, then the data should show the cumulative
impact of noise generated.
         Safety: 
         14.   If substantially modifying an existing wireless
telecommunications facility:
            a.   The age of the facility in years, including the date of the
grant of the original permit;
            b.   A description of the type of tower, e.g. guyed, self-
supporting lattice or monopole;
         15.   A Structural Report signed by a Professional Engineer licensed
to do business in the State and bearing that engineer's currently valid stamp,
showing the structural adequacy of the proposed structure to accommodate the
proposed Wireless Telecommunications Facility, including any equipment shelter,
unless the equipment shelter is located on the lowest floor of a building;
      l.   [Compliance with FAA regulations.] The applicant will provide a
written copy of an analysis, completed by a qualified individual or
organization, to determine if the proposed wireless telecommunications facility
is in compliance with Federal Aviation Administration regulation part 77 and if
it requires lighting. This requirement shall also be for any where the
application increases the height of the wireless telecommunications facility.
If this analysis determines that an FAA determination is required, then all
filings with the FAA, all responses from the FAA and any related correspondence
shall be provided prior to construction.
      m.   Application for new wireless telecommunications facility versus
collocation. Placement of wireless telecommunications towers and facilities
within major subdivisions or within intended service areas with existing or
planned medium to high residential density, or areas identified as potential
high density areas, must employ concealment techniques.
   Note: Medium-density, high-density or potential high-density residential
areas shall be defined by planning staff in its discretion.
         1.   The applicant shall be required to submit a written report
demonstrating its meaningful efforts to secure shared use of existing wireless
telecommunications facilities or the use of alternative buildings or other
structures within the county that are at or above the surrounding tree height
or the tallest obstruction and are within one mile of the proposed tower.
Copies of written requests and responses for shared use shall be provided to
the county in the application, along with any letters of rejection stating the
reason for rejection. The applicant shall provide information necessary to
determine whether collocation is reasonably feasible based upon the available
space on existing and approved wireless telecommunications facilities.
         2.   Telecommunications towers shall be prohibited in historic
districts or renaissance districts, unless the applicant provides documentation
(i.e. clear and convincing evidence) to demonstrate that the telecommunications
tower is necessary, that the area cannot be served from outside the district,
that no existing or previously approved wireless telecommunications facility
can reasonably be used for the antenna placement instead of the construction of
a new wireless telecommunications facility or instead of increasing the height
of an existing wireless telecommunications facility, and that no alternative
wireless telecommunications facility or alternative type of wireless
telecommunications facility can be used to provide wireless telecommunications
service to the district.
         3.   An intermodulation study shall be submitted to justify design
claims as related to interference. A claim of interference because of a need to
have greater than six feet of vertical clearance between facilities, measured
from the vertical centerline of one array to the vertical centerline of
another, must be proven by technical data showing that there is no
technological alternative that would enable the service to be provided that
would require less vertical space, and not merely verbal or written assertions.
         4.   The owner of a proposed new wireless telecommunications facility,
and his/her successors in interest, shall negotiate in good faith for the
shared use of the proposed wireless telecommunications facility by other
wireless service providers in the future. Failure to abide by the conditions
outlined above may be grounds for revocation of the special use permit.
      n.   In order to better inform the public, in the case of a new
telecommunication tower, the applicant shall conduct a "balloon test" prior to
the initial public hearing on the application. The applicant shall arrange to
fly, or raise upon a temporary mast, a minimum of a ten-foot length, a brightly
colored balloon at the maximum height of the proposed new tower.
         1.   At least 14 days prior to the conduct of the balloon test, a sign
shall be erected so as to be clearly visible from the road nearest the proposed
site and shall be removed no later than 14 days after the conduct of the
balloon test. The sign shall be readable from the road by a person with 20/20
vision.
         2.   Such sign shall be placed off, but as near to, the public right-
of-way as is possible.
         3.   Such sign shall contain the times and date(s) of the balloon test
and contact information.
         4.   The dates, (including a second date, in case of poor visibility
or wind in excess of 15 mph on the initial date) times and location of this
balloon test shall be advertised by the applicant seven and 14 days in advance
of the first test date in a newspaper with a general circulation in the county
and as agreed to by the county. The applicant shall inform the county in
writing, of the dates and times of the test, at least 14 days in advance. The
balloon shall be flown for at least four consecutive hours between 10:00 a.m.
and 2:00 p.m. on the dates chosen. The primary date shall be on a weekend, but
the second date, in case of poor visibility on the initial date, may be on a
week day. A report with pictures from various locations of the balloon shall be
provided with the application.
         5.   The applicant shall notify all property owners and residents
located within 500' of the nearest property line of the subject property of the
proposed construction of the tower and wireless facility and of the date(s) and
time(s) of the balloon test. Such notice shall be provided at least 14 days
prior to the conduct of the balloon test and shall be delivered by first class
mail.
      o.   All applications for proposed wireless telecommunications facilities
shall contain a demonstration that the facility is sited and designed so as to
create the least visual intrusiveness reasonably possible given the facts and
circumstances involved, and thereby will have the least adverse visual effect
on the environment and its character, on existing vegetation, and on the
community in the area of the wireless telecommunications facility. The county
expressly reserves the right to require the use of concealment technology or
techniques to achieve this goal and such shall be subject to approval by the
board.
      p.   The applicant shall furnish a visual impact assessment, which shall
include:
         1.   A computer-generated "zone of visibility map" at a minimum of
one-mile radius from the proposed structure shall be provided to illustrate
locations from which the proposed installation may be seen, with and without
foliage;
         2.   Pictorial representations (photo simulations) of "before and
after" views from key viewpoints inside of the county as may be appropriate and
required, including, but not limited to, state highways and other major roads,
state and local parks, other public lands, historic districts, preserves and
historic sites normally open to the public, and from any other location where
the site is visible to a large number of visitors, travelers or residents.
Guidance will be provided concerning the appropriate key viewpoints at the
preapplication meeting. In addition to photographic simulations to scale
showing the visual impact, the applicant shall provide a map showing the
locations of where the pictures were taken and the distance(s) of each location
from the proposed structure;
         3.   A written description of the visual impact of the proposed
facility, including, as applicable, the tower base, guy wires, fencing and
accessory buildings from abutting and adjacent properties and streets as
relates to the need or appropriateness of screening.
      q.   The Applicant shall demonstrate and provide in writing and by
drawing how it shall effectively screen from view the base and all related
equipment and structures of the proposed wireless telecommunications facility.
      r.   The wireless telecommunications facility and any and all accessory
or associated facilities shall maximize the use of building materials, colors
and textures designed to blend with the structure to which it may be affixed
and to harmonize with the natural surroundings. This shall include the
utilization of concealment technology as may be required by the county, if the
facts and circumstances warrant the use of such technology.
      s.   All utilities at a wireless telecommunications facility site shall
be installed underground if practical and in compliance with all laws,
ordinances, rules and regulations of the county, including specifically, but
not limited to, the National Electrical Safety Code and the National Electrical
Code where appropriate.
      t.   At a wireless telecommunications facility site an access road,
turnaround space for an emergency vehicle and parking shall be provided to
assure adequate emergency and service access. Maximum use of existing roads,
whether public or private, shall be made to the extent practicable. Road
construction shall at all times minimize ground disturbance and the cutting of
vegetation. Road grades shall closely follow natural contours to assure minimal
visual disturbance and reduce soil erosion.
      u.   All wireless telecommunications facilities shall be constructed,
operated, maintained, repaired, provided for removal of, modified or restored
in strict compliance with all current applicable technical, safety and safety-
related codes adopted by the county, state, or United States, including, but
not limited to, the most recent editions of the ANSI Code, National Electrical
Safety Code and the National Electrical Code, as well as accepted and
responsible workmanlike industry practices and recommended practices of the
National Association of Tower Erectors. The codes referred to are codes that
include, but are not limited to, construction, building, electrical, fire,
safety, health, and land use codes. In the event of a conflict between or among
any of the preceding the more stringent shall apply.
      v.   A holder of a special use permit granted under this section shall
obtain, at its own expense, all permits and licenses required by applicable
law, ordinance, rule, regulation or code, and must maintain the same, in full
force and effect, for as long as required by the county or other governmental
entity or agency having jurisdiction over the applicant.
      w.   There shall be a preapplication meeting for all new tower
applications. The purpose of the preapplication meeting will be to address
issues that will help to expedite the review and permitting process and certain
issues or concerns the county may have. A preapplication meeting may also
include a site visit, if there has not been a prior site visit for the
requested facility.
      x.   An applicant shall submit to the county the number of completed
applications determined to be needed at the preapplication meeting. However,
applications will not be transmitted to the board for consideration until the
application is deemed complete.
      y.   If the proposed site is within two miles of another jurisdiction,
written notification of the Application shall be provided to the legislative
body of all such adjacent municipalities as applicable and/or requested.
      z.   The holder of a special use permit shall notify the county of any
intended modification of a wireless telecommunication facility and shall apply
to the county to modify, relocate or rebuild a wireless telecommunications
facility.
      aa.   A building permit shall not be issued for construction of the
wireless telecommunications facility unless there is an FCC authorized or
licensed spectrum carrier which has indicated it will be installing equipment
to use such spectrum on the wireless telecommunications facility.
   (8)   Streamlined requirements for an application to collocate on an
existing telecommunications facility. 
      a.   The fixed application fee for review of wireless telecommunications
facilities applications for collocating an antenna array on an existing
wireless telecommunications facility shall be as set forth in the county's
schedule of fees.
      b.   An application to "substantially modify" the parameters of an
approved wireless telecommunications facility as relates to conditioned height,
profile, number of collocations or footprint shall not qualify for treatment as
an attachment to an existing tower or other structure under this section.
      c.   There shall be no special use permit required for an application to
modify or to collocate an antenna array on an existing and properly permitted
wireless telecommunications facility so long as the collocation or modification
does not exceed the parameters set forth in G.S. 160D-934 and 160D-935.
Approval shall result in issuance of a building permit by the appropriate
administrative officer.
      d.   Documentation shall be provided to demonstrate that the applicant
has the legal right to proceed as proposed on the site, including an executed
copy of the lease with the owner of the facility proposed to be attached to, or
a letter of agency, showing the right of the applicant to attach to the
structure.
      e.   The applicant shall include a written statement that:
         1.   The applicant's proposed wireless telecommunications facility
shall be maintained in a safe manner, and in compliance with all conditions of
all applicable permits and authorizations, without exception, as well as all
applicable and permissible local codes, ordinances, and regulations, including
any and all applicable county, state and federal laws, rules, and regulations;
and
         2.   The construction of the wireless telecommunications facilities is
legally permissible, including, but not limited to the fact that the applicant
is authorized to do business in the state.
      f.   An application for attaching an antenna array under this section
shall contain the following information:
         1.   The name, address and phone number of the person preparing the
application;
         2.   The name, address, and phone number of the property owner and the
applicant, including the legal name of the applicant. If the owner of the
structure is different than the applicant, the name and all necessary contact
information shall be provided;
         3.   The postal address and tax map parcel number of the property;
         4.   A copy of the FCC license or other authorization applicable for
the intended use of the wireless telecommunications facilities.
         Zoning and Planning 
         5.   The zoning district or designation in which the property is
situated;
         6.   For applications that involve expansion of the ground compound,
the size of the property on which the structure to be attached to is located,
stated both in square feet and lot line dimensions, and a survey showing the
location of all lot lines;
            a.   The location, size and height of all existing and proposed
structures on the property on which the structure is located and that is the
subject of the application;
            b.   A site plan showing the footprint, location and dimensions of
access drives, landscaping and buffers, fencing and any other requirements of
site plans;
            c.   Unless it is deemed inappropriate or unnecessary by the county
given the facts and circumstances, the applicant shall demonstrate and provide
in writing and/or by drawing how it shall effectively buffer and screen from
view the base and all related equipment and structures of the proposed wireless
telecommunications facility up to a height of ten feet.
         7.   Unless already contained in the structural analysis required by
Section 8(h), elevations showing the vertical rendition of the wireless
telecommunications facility identifying all attachments, and all related
fixtures, structures, appurtenances and apparatus, including height above pre-
existing grade, materials, color and lighting;
      g.   To protect the nature and character of the area and create the least
visually intrusive impact reasonably possible under the facts and
circumstances, the antennas shall be mounted on the face, and all such
attachments and exposed cabling shall use concealment techniques to match as
closely as possible the color and texture of the structure, whenever practical.
      h.   The applicant shall provide a certification by a professional
engineer licensed in the state, along with documentation (a structural
analysis), including calculations, that prove that the wireless
telecommunications facility and its foundation as proposed to be utilized,
including all other existing attachments and reserved future attachments, are
designed and were constructed to meet all local, county, state, federal and
ANSI EIA/TIA 222 as amended for loads, including wind and ice loads and the
placement of any equipment on the roof a building after the addition of the
proposed new facilities.
      i.   All utilities installed for a new wireless telecommunications
facility shall be installed underground when practical and in compliance with
all Laws, ordinances, rules and regulations of the county, including
specifically, but not limited to, the National Electrical Safety Code and the
National Electrical Code where appropriate.
   (9)   Location of wireless telecommunications facilities.
      a.   Applicants for all other wireless telecommunications facilities
(e.g. distributed antenna systems or buildings) shall locate, site and
construct said wireless telecommunications facilities in accordance with the
following priorities, in order:
         1.   On existing wireless telecommunications facilities on county-
owned property without substantial modification of the tower or structure.
         2.   On other existing wireless telecommunications facilities without
substantial modification of the tower or structure.
         3.   On existing County or private property with substantial
modification(s).
         4.   On county-owned properties or facilities.
         5.   On properties in areas zoned for business use.
         6.   On properties in areas zoned for rural use.
         7.   On properties in areas zoned for residential use.
      b.   If the proposed site is not proposed for the highest priority listed
above, then a detailed explanation and justification must be provided as to why
a site of all higher priority designations was not selected. Applicants are
highly encouraged to work with the county to site new facilities on county-
owned property or on existing wireless telecommunications facilities without
making substantial modifications.
      c.   An applicant may not bypass sites of higher priority by stating the
site proposed is the only site leased or selected or because there is an
existing lease with a landowner.
      d.   Notwithstanding the above, the county may approve any site located
within an area in the above list of priorities, provided that the county finds
that the proposed site is in the best interest of the health, safety and
welfare of the county and its inhabitants and will not have a deleterious
effect on the nature and character of the community and neighborhood.
      e.   Notwithstanding that a potential site may be situated in an area of
highest priority or highest available priority, the county may disapprove an
application for any of the following reasons:
         1.   Conflict with safety and safety-related codes and requirements;
         2.   Conflict with the historic nature or character of a neighborhood
or district;
         3.   The use or construction of wireless telecommunications facilities
which is contrary to an already stated purpose of a specific zoning or land use
designation;
         4.   The placement and location of wireless telecommunications
facilities which would create an unacceptable risk, or the reasonable
probability of such, to residents, the public, employees and agents of the
county, or employees of the service provider or other service providers;
         5.   The placement and location of a wireless telecommunications
facility would result in a conflict with or compromise in or change the nature
or character of the surrounding area;
         6.   Conflicts with the provisions of this section;
         7.   Failure to submit a complete application as required under this
section.
   (10)   Type and height of wireless telecommunications facilities. 
      a.   All new towers under 200' in height shall be of the monopole type,
unless such is able to be proven to be technologically impracticable.
      b.   The maximum permitted total height of a new wireless
telecommunications facility shall be based on the property's land use
designation as identified within the latest adopted version of the Johnston
County 2030 Comprehensive Plan. The designation and corresponding maximum
height is as follows:
         1.   Primary Growth Area: Maximum 199'
         2.   Secondary Growth Area: Maximum 250'
         3.   Agricultural/Rural Conservation Area: Maximum 300'
   (11)   Visibility and noise of wireless telecommunications facilities.
      a.   [Artificial lighting, markings.] Wireless telecommunications
facilities shall not be artificially lighted or marked, except as required by
federal regulations.
      b.   Concealment. All new wireless telecommunications facilities shall
utilize concealment techniques.
      c.   Wireless telecommunications facilities finish/color. Structures
shall be galvanized and/or painted with a rust-preventive paint of an
appropriate color to harmonize with the surroundings and shall be maintained in
accordance with the requirements of this section and subject to FAA
requirements.
      d.   Lighting. If lighting is legally required or proposed, the applicant
shall provide a detailed plan for sufficient lighting of as unobtrusive and
inoffensive an effect as is permissible under state and federal regulations.
For any wireless telecommunications facility for which lighting is required
under the FAA's regulations, or that for any reason has lights attached, all
such lighting shall be affixed with technology that enables the light to be
seen as intended from the air, but that prevents the ground scatter effect so
that it is not able to be seen from the ground to a height of at least 12
degrees vertical for a distance of at least one mile in a level-terrain
situation. Such device must be compliant with or not in conflict with FAA
regulations. A physical shield may be used, as long as the light is able to be
seen from the air, as intended by the FAA. If lighting is required by the FAA
or other government agency, then such lighting shall be installed pursuant to
the FAA or other government agency standards. The applicant shall present the
options for selection by the county.
      e.   [Retrofitting.] In the event a wireless telecommunications facility
that is lighted is modified, at the time of the modification the county may
require that the tower be retrofitted with the technology set forth in the
preceding subsection.
      f.   [Noise.] All facilities at a wireless telecommunications facility,
regardless of the owner of the facilities, shall comply with the county's noise
control and abatement regulations, without exception.
      g.   [Noise-control compliance.] As part of the final inspection prior to
the grant of the certificate of completion, the applicant shall demonstrate
compliance with the county's noise control and abatement regulations in the
presence of a county representative by running all equipment, including any
standby or backup electrical generator. Noise levels in decibels shall be taken
at all property lines adjacent to the site using standard and general accepted
equipment for determining noise levels.
   (12)   Security of wireless telecommunications facilities. All wireless
telecommunications facilities shall be located, fenced or otherwise secured in
a manner that prevents unauthorized access. Specifically:
      a.   All wireless telecommunications facilities, including antennas,
towers and other supporting structures, including guy anchor points and wires,
shall be made inaccessible to individuals and constructed or shielded in such a
manner that they cannot be climbed or collided with; and
      b.   Transmitters and telecommunications control points shall be
installed in such a manner that they are readily accessible only to persons
authorized to operate or service them.
   (13)   Signage. Wireless telecommunications facilities shall contain a sign
no larger than four square feet in order to provide adequate notification to
persons in the immediate area of the presence of RF radiation or to control
exposure to RF radiation within a given area. A sign of the same size is also
to be installed to contain the name(s) of the owner(s) and operator(s) of the
antenna(s) as well as emergency phone number(s). The sign shall be on the
equipment shelter or cabinet of the applicant and be visible from the access
point of the site and must identify the equipment owner of the shelter or
cabinet. On tower sites, an FCC registration site, as applicable, is also to be
present. The signs shall not be lighted, unless applicable law, rule or
regulation requires lighting. No other signage, including advertising, shall be
permitted.
   (14)   Setbacks.
      a.   All proposed telecommunication towers and any other proposed
wireless telecommunications facility attachment structures shall be set back
from abutting parcels, recorded rights-of-way and road and street lines by the
greater of the following distances: a distance equal to the height of the
proposed tower or other wireless telecommunications facility structure plus ten
percent of the height of the telecommunications structure, otherwise known as
the fall zone, or the existing setback requirement of the underlying zoning
district, whichever is greater. Any accessory structure shall be located within
the footprint as approved in the special use permit and so as to comply with
the applicable minimum setback requirements for the property on which it is
situated. The fall zone shall be measured from the nearest portion of the
right-of-way of any public road or thoroughfare and any occupied building or
domicile. Further, the nearest portion of any access road leading to a wireless
telecommunications facility shall be no less than 15 feet from the nearest
property line.
      b.   There shall be no development of habitable buildings within the fall
zone set forth in the preceding subsection.
   (15)   Retention of expert assistance cost to be borne by applicant.
      a.   The county may hire any consultant and/or expert necessary to assist
the county in reviewing and evaluating the application for substantial
modifications, new towers and collocations, including the construction and
modification of the site, once permitted, and any site inspections.
      b.   To prevent the taxpayers from having to bear the cost related to the
issue of the regulation of wireless telecommunications facilities, an applicant
shall pay to the county's consultant fee based on the fixed rate set forth in
the county's fee schedule. The amount of the fee shall be based on the cost of
services provided and what is usual and customary in Johnston County for the
review and permitting assistance related to wireless telecommunications towers
and facilities to cover all reasonable costs of consultant and expert
evaluation and consultation with the county in connection with the submittal,
review and permitting of any application, and where applicable, any lease
negotiation, preapproval evaluation and including any construction and
modification of the site, once permitted. The payment of the application fee to
the county shall precede any work being done as regards to processing an
application.
      c. There shall be three categories of consultant fees, such being:
         i)   Application assistance and review fee;
         ii)   Application amendment fee; and
         iii)   Inspections fees.
      Said fees shall be set forth in the county's published schedule of fees
and may be adjusted from time to time by the board of commissioners.
      d.   Records of all outside costs associated with the review and
permitting process shall be maintained and available for public inspection, in
compliance with applicable North Carolina law.
   (16)   Procedural requirements for a special use permit.
      a.   The procedures established for special uses in section
14-254(d) through (o) of this ordinance shall apply where wireless
telecommunications facilities require a special use permit as required or
otherwise specified in this section.
      b.   The county shall schedule the required public hearing once it finds
the application is complete and is not required to set a date if the
application is not complete. The county, at any stage prior to issuing a
special use permit, may require such additional information as it deems
necessary as such relates to the issue of the siting, construction or
modification of a wireless telecommunications facility.
      c.   A special use permit shall be issued for a wireless
telecommunications structure upon board review and approval, but the building
permit for said telecommunications structure shall not be issued until an
applicant has provided substantiating documentation under the section governing
the placement of the first antenna array prior to construction of a new
wireless telecommunications facility.
   (17)   Action on an application for a special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities.
      a.   The county will undertake a review of an application pursuant to
this article in a timely fashion, consistent with its responsibilities, and
shall act within a reasonable period of time given the relative complexity of
the application and the circumstances, with due regard for the public's
interest and need to be involved, and the applicant's desire for a timely
resolution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the county shall review and take
action on any collocation application within 45 days of such application being
deemed "complete" in accordance with G.S. 153A-349.53.
      b.   The county may refer any application or part thereof to any advisory
or other committee for a nonbinding recommendation.
      c.   After the public hearing and after formally considering the
application, the county may approve, approve with conditions, or deny a special
use permit. Its decision shall be in writing and shall be supported by
substantial evidence contained in a written record. The burden of proof for the
grant of the permit shall always be upon the applicant.
      d.   If the county approves the special use permit for the wireless
telecommunications facility, then the applicant shall be notified of such
approval in writing within 30 calendar days of the county's action, and the
special use permit shall be issued within 30 days after such approval. Except
for necessary construction plan documents, building permits, and subsequent
certificates of compliance, once a special use permit has been granted
hereunder, no additional site plan or zoning approvals, shall be required by
the county for the wireless telecommunications facilities covered by the
special use permit. Each collocation of an antenna array shall require the
submission of a wireless telecommunications facility application and building
permit application.
      e.   If the county denies the special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities, then the applicant shall be notified of such
denial at the board meeting and in writing within 30 calendar days of the
board's action and shall set forth in writing the reason or reasons for the
denial.
   (18)   Extent and parameters of special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities. The extent and parameters of a special use
permit for wireless telecommunications facilities shall be as follows:
      a.   Such special use permit shall not be assigned, transferred or
conveyed without the express prior written notification to the county.
      b.   Following an opportunity to cure and, if not cured within the time
frame set forth in the notice of violation, a hearing upon due prior notice to
the applicant, such special use permit may be revoked, canceled, or terminated
for a violation of the conditions and provisions of the special use permit, or
for a material violation of this section or other applicable law, rule or
regulation. Notice of a violation and of the date, time and place of a hearing
shall be provided by registered mail to the last known address of the holder of
the special use permit.
   (19)   Application fee. At the time that a person submits an application for
a special use permit for a new wireless telecommunications facility, such
person shall pay a nonrefundable application fee set forth in the county's fee
schedule as may be amended or changed from time to time.
   (20)   Removal and performance security. The Applicant and the owner of
record of any proposed wireless telecommunications facilities property site
shall, at its cost and expense, be jointly required to execute and file with
the county a bond, or other form of security acceptable to the county as to
type of security and the form and manner of execution, in an amount of at least
$75,000.00 for a tower and with such sureties as are deemed sufficient by the
county to assure the faithful performance of the terms and conditions of this
section and conditions of any special use permit issued pursuant to this
section. The full amount of the bond or security shall remain in full force and
effect throughout the term of the special use permit and/or until any necessary
site restoration is completed to restore the site to a condition comparable to
that, which existed prior to the issuance of the original special use permit.
   (21)   Reservation of authority to inspect wireless telecommunications
facilities. In order to verify that the holder of a special use permit for
wireless telecommunications facilities and any and all lessees, renters, and/or
licensees of wireless telecommunications facilities, place and construct such
facilities, including towers and antennas, in accordance with all applicable
technical, safety, fire, building, and zoning codes, laws, ordinances and
regulations and other applicable requirements, the county may inspect all
facets of said permit holder's, renter's, lessee's or licensee's placement,
construction, modification and maintenance of such facilities, including, but
not limited to, towers, antennas and buildings (excluding exteriors) or other
structures constructed or located on the permitted site. The county shall set
fees, payable to Johnston County, to cover the cost of conducting such post-
certificate of occupancy inspections of all facilities (excluding interiors)
constructed or modified pursuant to this Section. The set fees shall be set
forth in the county's fee schedule. Collocation facilities not subject to a
special use permit shall require independent verification of construction in
compliance with applicable codes and regulations following completion of
installation and the county may engage outside consultants or professional
services to perform such inspections.
   (22)   Liability insurance.
      a.   A holder of a special use permit for wireless telecommunications
structures shall secure and at all times maintain public liability insurance
for personal injuries, death and property damage, and umbrella insurance
coverage, for the duration of the special use permit in amounts as set forth
below:
         1.   Commercial general liability covering personal injuries, death
and property damage. $1,000,000.00 per occurrence/$2,000,000.00 aggregate; and
         2.   Umbrella coverage. $3,000,000.00.
   (23)   Fines.
      a.   In the event of a violation of this section or any special use
permit issued pursuant to this section, the county may impose and collect, and
the holder of the special use permit for wireless telecommunications facilities
shall pay to the county, fines or penalties as set forth in Article IV, section
9 and 10 of this Ordinance.
      b.   Notwithstanding anything in this section, the holder of the special
use permit for wireless telecommunications facilities may not use the payment
of fines, liquidated damages or other penalties, to evade or avoid compliance
with this section or any section of this ordinance. An attempt to do so shall
subject the holder of the special use permit to termination and revocation of
the special use permit. The county may also seek injunctive relief to prevent
the continued violation of this section, without limiting other remedies
available to the county.
   (24)   Default and/or revocation. If a wireless telecommunications structure
or facility is repaired, rebuilt, placed, and moved, relocated, modified or
maintained in a way that is inconsistent or not in compliance with the
provisions of this section or of the special use permit, then the county shall
notify the holder of the special use permit in writing of such violation. A
permit holder in violation may be considered in default and subject to fines as
in section (25) and if a violation is not corrected to the satisfaction of the
county in a reasonable period of time the special use permit is subject to
revocation.
   (25)   Removal of wireless telecommunications facilities. 
      a.   Under the following circumstances, the county may determine that the
health, safety, and welfare interests of the county warrant and require the
removal of wireless telecommunications facilities.
         1.   Wireless telecommunications facilities with a permit have been
abandoned (i.e. not used as wireless telecommunications facilities) for a
period exceeding 180 days, except for periods caused by force majeure or acts
of God, in which case repair or removal shall commence within 90 days of
abandonment;
         2.   Permitted wireless telecommunications structures or facilities
fall into such a state of disrepair that it creates a health or safety hazard;
         3.   Wireless telecommunications structures or facilities have been
located, constructed, or modified without first obtaining, or in a manner not
authorized by, the required special use permit, or any other necessary
authorization and the special permit may be revoked.
      b.    If the county makes such a determination as noted in subsection a.,
then the county shall notify the holder of the special use permit for the
wireless telecommunications facilities within 48 hours that said wireless
telecommunications facilities are to be removed, the county may approve an
interim temporary use agreement/permit, such as to enable the sale of the
wireless telecommunications facilities.
      c.   The holder of the special use permit, or its successors or assigns,
shall dismantle and remove such wireless telecommunications facilities, and all
associated structures and facilities, from the site and restore the site to as
close to its original condition as is possible, such restoration being limited
only by physical or commercial impracticability, within 90 days of receipt of
written notice from the county. However, if the owner of the property upon
which the wireless telecommunications facilities are located wishes to retain
any access roadway to the wireless telecommunications facilities, the owner may
do so with the approval of the county.
      d.   If wireless telecommunications facilities are not removed or
substantial progress has not been made to remove the wireless
telecommunications facilities within 90 days after the permit holder has
received notice, then the county may order officials or representatives of the
county to remove the wireless telecommunications facilities at the sole expense
of the owner or special use permit holder.
         1.   Any county initiated removal of telecommunications facilities
shall be subject to all hearing requirements and procedures established in
Article XI of this Code.
      e.   If the county removes, or causes to be removed, wireless
telecommunications facilities, and the owner of the wireless telecommunications
facilities does not claim and remove it from the site to a lawful location
within ten days, then the county may take steps to declare the wireless
telecommunications facilities abandoned, and sell them and their components.
      f.   Notwithstanding anything in this section to the contrary, the county
may approve a temporary use permit/agreement for the wireless
telecommunications facilities, for no more than 90 days, during which time a
suitable plan for removal, conversion, or relocation of the affected wireless
telecommunications facilities shall be developed by the holder of the special
use permit, subject to the approval of the county, and an agreement to such
plan shall be executed by the holder of the special use permit and the county.
If such a plan is not developed, approved and executed within the 90-day time
period, then the county may take possession of and dispose of the affected
wireless telecommunications facilities in the manner provided in this section
and utilize the bond in this section.
   (26)   Relief. Any applicant desiring relief, waiver or exemption from any
aspect or requirement of this section may request such at the preapplication
meeting, provided that the relief or exemption is contained in the submitted
application for either a special use permit or, in the case of an existing or
previously granted special use permit a request for modification of its
wireless telecommunications facility and/or facilities. Such relief may be
temporary or permanent, partial or complete. However, the burden of proving the
need for the requested relief, waiver, or exemption is solely on the applicant
to prove. The applicant shall bear all costs of the county in considering the
request and the relief, waiver, or exemption. No such relief or exemption shall
be approved unless the applicant demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence
that, if granted the relief, waiver, or exemption, the same will have no
significant effect on the health, safety, and welfare of the county, its
residents, and other service providers.
   (27)   Adherence to state and/or federal rules and regulations.
      a.   To the extent that the holder of a special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities has not received relief, or is otherwise exempt,
from appropriate state and/or federal agency rules or regulations, then the
holder of such a special use permit shall adhere to, and comply with, all
applicable rules, regulations, standards, and provisions of any state or
federal agency, including, but not limited to, the FAA and the FCC.
Specifically included in this requirement are any rules and regulations
regarding height, lighting, security, electrical and RF emission standards.
      b.   To the extent that applicable rules, regulations, standards, and
provisions of any state or federal agency, including but not limited to, the
FAA and the FCC, and specifically including any rules and regulations regarding
height, lighting, and security are changed and/or are modified during the
duration of a special use permit for wireless telecommunications facilities,
then the holder of such a special use permit shall conform the permitted
wireless telecommunications facilities to the applicable changed and/or
modified rule, regulation, standard, or provision within a maximum of 24 months
of the effective date of the applicable changed and/or modified rule,
regulation, standard, or provision, or sooner as may be required by the issuing
entity.
   (28)   Biannual meeting. In order to develop a logical, rational plan of
deployment and siting of wireless telecommunications facilities within the
county that provides reasonable coverage within the county based on the needs
of the county and its residents, while minimizing the number and intrusiveness
of the facilities and the most efficient use of wireless telecommunications
facilities sites, twice annually within the months of January and June of each
calendar year, the county may hold a meeting of all carriers and tower
companies who have filed applications the previous year or anyone who has
expressed an interest in filing an application to construct a wireless
telecommunications facility. The county shall notify each party of the date,
time and place of the meeting no later than 30 days prior to the meeting at the
last known address of the party and attendance shall be expected. In order to
allow the allocation of the county's resources to those applications deemed
urgent or critical so that they may be permitted and service provided as
expeditiously as is reasonably possible, lack of attendance shall be deemed as
evidence of a lack of urgency or any critical need for the facility and subject
the party not attending to a longer review process than for those attending.
Consideration of applications by those not attending shall be addressed and
considered by the planning board twice annually, at dates to be established by
the planning board. Exceptions to this policy may be granted by the director of
planning based on facts and circumstances deemed sufficient to warrant
exception that are shown to be in the interest of the county and its residents.
   (29)   Conflict with other laws. Where this section differs or conflicts
with other laws, rules and regulations, unless the right to do so is preempted
or prohibited by the county, state or federal government, this section shall
apply.
   (30)   Effective date. This section shall be effective immediately upon
passage, pursuant to applicable legal and procedural requirements.
   (31)   Authority. This section is enacted pursuant to applicable authority
granted by the state and federal government.
   (q)   Residential hotel, dormitory, fraternity, sorority, and religious
quarters.
   (1)   Submittals. The following information shall be submitted as part of an
application for a special use permit for residential hotels, dormitories,
fraternities, sororities, and religious quarters:
      a.   A description of the type of facility planned, the number of
occupants, and the development schedule;
      b.   A site plan showing existing and proposed contours, proposed
structures on the site, existing and proposed landscaping, existing and
proposed parking areas, access points to the site, any officially designated
floodplains, and/or other site details must also be shown; and
      c.   A description of the exterior materials, color and construction
details.
   (2)   Standards of evaluation. The following specific standards shall be
used in evaluating an application for a special use permit:
       a.   The lot shall be of a size adequate for the method of sewage
disposal, and other improvements proposed or required;
      b.   The site plan shall show the boundaries of the site, the distances
to the nearest residential structures, access points, parking areas, service
area, and location of proposed or existing buildings;
         c.   A landscape plan shall be drawn to the same scale as the site
plan, and should show how the facilities will be screened from adjacent
properties, proposed preservation of existing trees, and the location of
proposed trees, shrubs, and ground covers;
      d.   Exterior building elevation plans should demonstrate that the
buildings are consistent with and in harmony of the immediate area; and
      e.   A minimum of 250 square feet of floor area shall be provided for
each resident.
   (r)   Shopping center. The following regulations and requirements shall
apply to a shopping center defined for purposes of this article for
neighborhood, community, or regional commercial activity centers.
   (1)   Intent. It is the intent of this subsection to provide for development
of such commercial centers in scale with surrounding areas, at locations in
conformance with the comprehensive plan and major street plan, in accordance
with standards set forth in this section, with commercial service facilities of
the kind proposed. It is further the intent to permit the establishment of such
shopping centers only where such centers with carefully related buildings,
parking and service areas, and landscaped open space will serve clearly
demonstrated public need, reduce marginal traffic friction below that which
would result from strip commercial development, and protect property values in
surrounding neighborhoods. It is further intended that the shopping center
shall provide a broad range of facilities and services appropriate to the
general need of the area served. Note: No billboard sign shall be erected or
used on, or within, a shopping center site.
   (2)   Land area requirements. The minimum land area for a shopping center
shall be no less than four acres.
   (3)   Permitted uses. Permitted principal and accessory uses of land within
a shopping center are intended to be built around a department store, a
substantial variety store or
      a supermarket as the major use, and to provide for the sale of
convenience goods, for provision of personal services, and other frequent needs
of a trade area.
   (4)   Design standards. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the
design standards applicable within a shopping center shall be as established in
article VI of this chapter, with the following additions:
      a.   No shopping center shall be created except where direct access to an
arterial or collector street is available, or is made available, at convenient
locations at the edge of or within the shopping center.
      b.   Where a shopping center adjoins any residential neighborhood, with
or without an intervening street or alley, to the maximum extent reasonably
practicable, nonresidential uses and signs shall be located or oriented away
from the residential neighborhood.
      c.   No building permit shall be issued for any building until a detailed
site development plan is approved by the board of commissioners.
      d.   That actual construction shall begin within one year from the date
of approval of the development plan, or within such further time stipulated in
the approval. The planning board may grant a single extension of the starting
time limit for up to 12 months, unless they determine that paramount
considerations of health, the general welfare, or public safety require board
of commissioners reapproval. The planning director shall determine whether the
construction or activity has started.
   (s)   Sweepstakes/internet gaming facilities. 
   (1)   All new facilities shall be located no closer than 1,000 feet from an
existing internet sweepstakes/gaming facility, and no closer than 1,000 feet
from a residential dwelling.
      The distance shall be measured by straight line from the closest point of
the building housing the proposed facility and the building housing the
existing facility or dwelling.
   (2)   Parking shall be required at 1.5 off-street parking spaces per two
internet/gaming terminals.
   (3)   A maximum of 50 terminals allowed within each facility.
   (t)   Shooting range facilities (outdoor).
   (1)   Setback from any adjacent occupied structure in different ownership
shall be 300 linear feet.
   (2)   Buffer. A 100 foot wide wooded buffer, consisting primarily of
evergreen trees and shrubs shall exist or be planted and maintained between the
firing area and all adjacent property. Firing areas that are greater than 1,000
feet away from the nearest adjacent property in different ownership shall
provide a 50 foot buffer with the minimum Class C planting requirements as
described in Section 6 of the Johnston County Design Manual.
   (3)   Fencing. Security fencing shall be provided at a minimum height of 6'
to prevent an individual from crossing the property downrange with warning
signs posted every 100 feet.
   (4)   Backstop/Berm must be constructed to sufficient height and thickness
so as to stop all rounds fired downrange. The NRA Source Book should be used as
a guide.
   (5)   All bullets, shot, or arrows or any other debris shall be contained on
the range facility.
   (6)   The maximum downrange safety area for each range and shooting area
shall be essentially fan-shaped, with its vertex being 100 yards each side of
the end firing point that meets the MILHDBK-1027/3B or the National Rifle
Association Range Manual. The safety area shall not encompass any public right-
of-way or other property not owned by the range operator or owner without the
express permission of the owner of such other property.
   (7)   Each facility shall adopt safety rules and regulations with a copy
made available to the Planning Department, including qualifications of the
instructor(s).
   (8)   A site plan shall be provided to include the firing stations and
firing lines, target areas, shotfall zones or safety fans, backstops, berms and
baffles, existing and proposed structures, setback and buffer areas, driveways,
and parking facilities as well as all adjacent properties and structures
located immediately adjacent to the firing range facility.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 6.7; Amend. of 12-3-2001, § 6.7.12; Amend. of 2-5-2007
(2), §§ 1—35; Amend. of 5-54-2008(1); Amend. of 5-3-2010; Amend. of 9-6-2011;
Amend. of 7-2- 2012; Amend. of 4-7-2014; Amend of 11-7-2016; Amend. of 3-4-
2019; Amend. of 8-3-2020; Amend. of - - )
Secs. 14-258—14-290. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - SITE PLANS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY
   Sec.
14-291. - Land use permit required.
   Sec.
14-292. - Site plan review required.
   Sec.
14-293. - Application submittal requirements.
   Sec.
14-294. - Action on the application.
   Sec.
14-295. - Performance and maintenance guarantees.
   Sec.
14-296. - Actions subsequent to decision.
   Sec.
14-297. - Appeal of decision.
   Sec.
14-298. - Modification of land use permits.
   Sec.
14-299. - Expiration and revocation of land use permit approvals.
   Secs. 14-300—14-320. - Reserved.
Sec. 14-291. - Land use permit required.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, it shall be
unlawful to begin any excavation, removal of soil, clearing of site, or placing
any fill on lands contemplated for development, or to begin any construction,
moving, alteration, or renovation, except for ordinary repairs, of any building
or other structure, including accessory structures and signs, until the
planning director has issued for such action a land use permit, certifying that
such development complies with the applicable provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 7.1)
Sec. 14-292. - Site plan review required.
   Site plan review and approval by the board of commissioners, planning board
or planning director as appropriate, shall be required prior to the issuance of
a land use permit for any development, with the following exceptions:
   (1)   Any development of a single- or two-family dwelling on a zoning lot,
or any accessory thereto;
   (2)   Expansion of development previously existing within a zoning lot may
be reviewed and approved by the planning director if it would result in:
      a.   Addition of not more than 15 percent of previously existing floor
area, or 2,500 square feet of floor area, whichever is greater;
      b.   Addition of not more than 15 percent of previously existing parking
spaces, or 20 parking spaces, whichever is greater; and
      c.   An increase of not more than 15 percent in the amount of land
cleared for nonagricultural development, or 10,000 square feet of new land
clearing, whichever is greater.
   (3)   Any sign;
   (4)   Any development pursuant to an approved special use permit including
special use permits which are no longer necessary and have therefore been
abandoned, provided the planning director finds that no modifications are
proposed to the plans, and conditions in the area have not changed
significantly; or
   (5)   Any development in the opinion of the planning director, does not
significantly affect vehicular circulation patterns, drainage, relationship of
buildings to each other, or landscape buffering, provided such existing site
elements comply with the applicable provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 7.2)
Sec. 14-293. - Application submittal requirements.
   (a)   Applications for a land use permit shall be submitted to the planning
director. The planning director shall prescribe the form on which applications
are made. In case of applications involving site plan review, applications
shall include the name and address of the applicant, the name and address of
the owner of each zoning lot involved, and the relationship of the applicant
and property owner in connection with the application. If the applicant or
property owner listed on an application involving site plan review is an entity
other than an individual, the application shall also include detailed
information regarding the principals of the entity. The planning director shall
prescribe any other material that may reasonably be required to determine
compliance with this chapter, with sufficient copies for necessary referrals
and records. No application shall be accepted by the planning director unless
it complies with such submittal requirements. For the purposes of this chapter,
an incomplete application is considered to have not been submitted and shall be
returned forthwith to the applicant, with a notation of the deficiencies in the
application. Where a building permit, stormwater management permit, or sign
permit is required, applications for such permits may be made coincidentally
with the application for a land use permit.
   (b)   Permit choice. All applications for site plans are subject to the
rules for permit choice as specified in section
14-133(b).
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 7.3.1; Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-294. - Action on the application.
   On receipt of a completed application for a land use permit, the planning
director shall cause an analysis to be made by qualified representatives of the
county and such other agencies or officials as appear appropriate in the
circumstances of the case, to determine compliance with applicable provisions
of this chapter and any applicable conditions of an approved special use permit
or conditional use permit. The board of commissioners, or planning director, as
appropriate, may impose such reasonable conditions on an approval as will
ensure compliance with applicable regulations.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 7.3.2)
Sec. 14-295. - Performance and maintenance guarantees.
   (a)   Requirement. Conditions attached to an approval of a land use permit
may include the following:
   (1)   A condition requiring the applicant to provide performance guarantees
and/or maintenance guarantees deemed necessary to ensure compliance with the
requirements of this chapter and the conditions of permit approval.
   (2)   A condition permitting the applicant to provide performance guarantees
in lieu of actual completion or required improvements prior to the use or
occupancy of the development authorized by the land use permit, provided the
delayed completion of such improvements is determined to be compatible with the
public health, safety and welfare.
   (b)   Type of guarantee. The type of the performance guarantee shall be at
the election of the developer, and may include a:
   (1)    Surety bond issued by any company authorized to do business in North
Carolina.
   (2)   Letter of credit issued by any financial institution licensed to do
business in North Carolina.
   (3)   Other form of guarantee that provides equivalent security to a surety
bond or letter of credit.
   (c)   Form. Such performance guarantees and maintenance guarantees shall be
satisfactory as to their form and manner of execution, and as to the
sufficiency of their amount in securing the satisfactory construction,
installation, or maintenance of the required improvements.
   (d)   Time period for completing improvements. The condition requiring or
permitting a performance guarantee shall specify a reasonable time period
within which required improvements must be completed. Such time period shall be
incorporated in the performance guarantee. The length of such time period shall
initially be one year from the date the land use permit is issued, unless the
developer determines that the scope of work for the required improvements
necessitates a longer duration. In the case of a bonded obligation, the
completion date shall be set one year from the date the bond is issued, unless
the developer determines that the scope of work for the required improvements
necessitates a longer duration.
   (e)   Sufficiency. The amount of the performance guarantee shall not exceed
125 percent of the reasonably estimated cost of completion at the time the
performance guarantee is issued. In calculating the sufficiency of the amount
of the performance guarantee, the county may base such calculations on the
actual cost of such improvements at the time of acceptance of the performance
guarantee, as well as anticipated costs of such improvements at the end of the
time period. The reasonably estimated cost of completion shall include 100
percent of the costs for labor and materials necessary for completion of the
required improvements. Where applicable, the costs shall be based on unit
pricing. The additional 25 percent allowed under this subsection includes
inflation and all costs of administration regardless of how such fees or
charges are denominated. The amount of any extension of any performance
guarantee shall be determined according to the procedures for determining the
initial guarantee and shall not exceed 125 percent of the reasonably estimated
cost of completion of the remaining incomplete improvements still outstanding
at the time the extension is obtained.
   (f)   Extension. A developer shall demonstrate reasonable, good-faith
progress toward completion of the required improvements that are secured by the
performance guarantee or any extension. If the improvements are not completed
to the specifications of the local government, and the current performance
guarantee is likely to expire prior to completion of the required improvements,
the performance guarantee shall be extended, or a new performance guarantee
issued, for an additional period. An extension under this subdivision shall
only be for a duration necessary to complete the required improvements. If a
new performance guarantee is issued, the amount shall be determined by the
procedure provided in subsection (e) of this section and shall include the
total cost of all incomplete improvements.
   (g)   No performance guarantee shall be released until certification of the
satisfactory completion of all required improvements covered by such
performance guarantee has been submitted to and approved by the planning
director, which shall be done in a timely manner upon the acknowledgement by
the county that the improvements for which the performance guarantee is being
required are complete. The county shall return letters of credit or escrowed
funds upon completion of the required improvements to its specifications or
upon acceptance of the required improvements, if the required improvements are
subject to county acceptance.
   (h)   If the required improvements covered by a performance guarantee are
not completed in accordance with the terms of the performance guarantee, the
obligor shall be liable thereon to the county for the reasonable cost of the
improvements not completed and the county may, either prior to or after the
receipt of the proceeds thereof, complete such improvements.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 7.3.3; Amend. - - )
Sec. 14-296. - Actions subsequent to decision.
   In the case of approval or approval with conditions of an application for a
land use permit, the planning director shall issue the land use permit. In case
of denial on an application, the applicant shall be notified, in writing, of
the reasons for such denial. Where a building permit, stormwater management
permit, or sign permit is required, such permit shall not be issued prior to
the issuance of the land use permit required for the development and shall
comply with the approved land use permit, including all conditions of approval
thereto. No building or structure for which a land use permit has been issued
shall be used or occupied until, after final inspection, a certificate of
occupancy has been issued indicating compliance with the provisions of this
chapter and all other state and local laws, including the conditions of the
land use permit and all other required permits.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 7.3.4)
Sec. 14-297. - Appeal of decision.
   A decision by the planning director in granting or denying site plan
approval may be appealed to the board of adjustment in accordance with the
provisions of article XI of this chapter. A decision by the board of
commissioners in granting or denying a site plan accompanying a special use
permit application, may be appealed to the superior court within 30 days of the
decision. Failure to appeal within the deemed time will be considered a waiver
of appeal.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 7.3.5)
Sec. 14-298. - Modification of land use permits.
   The planning director may approve a modification of land use permit for
changes to plans approved under site plan review as long as such changes
continue to comply with the approving action and all other applicable
requirements. An application for modification of a land use permit shall be
reviewed in accordance with the procedures established in this article.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 7.4)
Sec. 14-299. - Expiration and revocation of land use permit approvals.
   (a)   Starting time limit. If the use, construction, or activity authorized
by approval of an application for a land use permit or modification of a land
use permit is not started within 12 months of the date of approval, the permit
shall expire and any county permit issued pursuant to the approval shall be
void. The planning director may grant an extension of the starting time limit
for up to 12 months. The planning director shall determine whether the use,
construction, or activity has started.
   (b)   Revocation of land use permit. If any conditions of a land use permit
or modification of a land use permit, or requirements of this chapter
applicable to the permit or modification are violated, the planning director
may revoke the permit or modification. The planning director may reinstate a
revoked land use permit or modification of a land use permit if he determines
that:
   (1)   The holder of the revoked permit or modification submitted a request
for reinstatement within 90 days of the revocation;
   (2)   The violations that were the cause of the revocation have been
corrected; and
   (3)   The development fully complies with all conditions of the permit or
modification and all applicable requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 7.5)
Secs. 14-300—14-320. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MASTER PLAN
   Sec.
14-321. - Intent.
   Sec.
14-322. - Defined.
   Sec.
14-323. - Design criteria.
   Sec.
14-324. - Procedures for approval.
   Sec.
14-325. - Expiration of approval.
   Sec.
14-326. - Minor changes and modifications.
   Sec.
14-327. - Development approvals.
   Sec.
14-328. - Relation to special use permit.
   Sec.
14-329. - Abandonment or revocation of an approved master plan.
   Sec.
14-330. - Relation to preliminary plat.
   Sec.
14-331. - Additions to master plans.
   Secs. 14-332—14-350. - Reserved.
Sec. 14-321. - Intent.
   It is the intent of this division that the development and approval of a
master or conceptual plan, would permit greater flexibility in the design and
development of tracts of land 100 acres or greater in size; and therefore
promote and encourage more creative and imaginative design solutions while
conserving the value of land. This process is intended to provide a procedure
which can relate to type, design and layout of residential, office and
commercial development to a particular site in a general way, providing the
basis for subsequent, more detailed development plans and applications through
the county's special use permit process.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 7.6)
Sec. 14-322. - Defined.
   The master plan conveys the general intent and system of development. It is
a conceptual plan that illustrates and defines land use areas for residential,
office, commercial, open spaces, and special facilities or other land uses.
General circulation patterns, both vehicular and pedestrian, are identified and
indicated on the conceptual plan. Master plans may be prepared for development
tracts of 100 acres or more.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 7.6.1)
   Cross reference—Definitions generally, §
1-2.
Sec. 14-323. - Design criteria.
   All master plans shall demonstrate a high quality of overall site design.
The design and construction of site elements shall include appropriate
consideration of the relationship and balance among site elements, the
relationship of the development to natural site features, neighboring
developments and access and circulation systems, retention of natural
vegetation, minimal alteration of natural topography, mitigation of erosion and
sedimentation, mitigation of stormwater drainage and flooding, arrangement and
orientation of buildings and amenities in relation to each other and to
neighboring developments and streets, landscaping, preservation or enhancement
of vistas, and mitigation of vehicular traffic impacts. No master plan shall be
approved that does not demonstrate appropriate consideration of these criteria.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 7.6.2)
Sec. 14-324. - Procedures for approval.
   (a)   Application submittal requirements. Applications for master plan
approval shall be filed with the planning director. The planning director shall
prescribe the form of applications as well as any other material he may
reasonably require to determine compliance with this article. A site analysis
shall be prepared and submitted by the applicant that presents an inventory of
existing site conditions such as topography, soils, slope conditions,
vegetation, hydrology-drainage, and other site features. The site analysis
should provide the basis for defining land use areas for residential, office,
commercial, open spaces, special facilities or other land uses, along with
general vehicular circulation patterns. The applicant will be required to
demonstrate that the proposed development conforms to all provisions of this
chapter, and is consistent with the county comprehensive or strategic plan. No
application shall be accepted by the planning director unless it complies with
such submittal requirements. For the purposes of this chapter, an incomplete
application is considered to have not been submitted and shall be returned
forthwith to the applicant, with a notation of the deficiencies in the
application.
   (b)   Action on the application. On receipt of a completed application for
master plan approval, the planning director shall cause an analysis to be made
by qualified representatives of the county and such other agencies or officials
as appear appropriate in the circumstances of the case, to determine compliance
with applicable provisions of this chapter and any applicable conditions of an
approved special use permit or conditional use permit.
   (c)   Planning director's report. The planning director shall submit to the
planning board a written analysis of the application for master plan approval
and his recommendation.
   (d)   Planning board review. The planning board shall review the application
for master plan approval and the planning director's report and shall submit a
written recommendation to the board of commissioners. The planning board shall
base its recommendation on its determination whether or not the application
conforms to all applicable provisions of this chapter, and whether or not the
application is consistent with county development plans and policies. If the
planning board recommends approval of the application with conditions, the
applicant may amend the application to conform to all or some of the
conditions, provided the planning director reviews the amended application for
compliance with applicable regulations and certifies that the amendments
conform to the conditions of the planning board recommendation. In such cases,
the planning director may amend his report to conform to any or all of the
planning board's recommendations. The planning director shall then forward his
report and the planning board's recommendation to the board of commissioners at
the next available public hearing scheduled for master plan applications.
   (e)   Public hearing. After receiving the planning director's report and
planning board's recommendation on an application for master plan approval, the
board of commissioners shall hold a legislative public hearing on the
application at the next available regularly scheduled public hearing. Notice of
the date, time, and place of the legislative public hearing shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the planning jurisdiction once a week
for two successive weeks, with the first notice to be published not less than
ten nor more than 25 days prior to the date of the hearing. The public hearing
shall be open to the public, and all interested persons shall be given the
opportunity to present evidence and arguments and to ask questions of persons
who testify. The board of commissioners may place reasonable and equitable
limitations on the presentation of evidence and arguments and the cross-
examination of witnesses to avoid undue delay. All persons who intend to
present evidence at the public hearing shall be sworn. The applicant shall bear
the burden of presenting evidence sufficient to establish persuasively that the
proposed development will comply with the criteria established in this chapter.
A record of the proceedings of the hearing shall be made and shall include all
documentary evidence presented at the hearing.
   (f)   Board of commissioners action. The board of commissioners shall act on
the application after reviewing the application, the planning director's
report, the planning board's recommendation, and public comment thereon. It
shall base its action on its findings as to conformity with all applicable
regulations of this chapter. Its action shall be on the following: approval,
approval subject to conditions, or denial. The board of commissioners may
impose such reasonable conditions on an approval as will ensure compliance with
applicable regulations.
   (g)   Actions after decision. The planning director shall notify the
applicant of the board of commissioners' decision in writing and shall file a
copy with the county's planning department. If the application is approved or
approved with conditions, the planning director shall issue the necessary
master plan approval in accordance with the action of the board of
commissioners. The applicant shall record such approval in the office of the
county register of deeds prior to any applications for a land use permit,
stormwater management permit, or building permit. The master plan, including
all conditions attached thereto, shall run with the land and shall be binding
on the original applicant as well as all successors, assigns, and heirs.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, §§ 7.6.3, 7.6.4; Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-325. - Expiration of approval.
   If an application for development of at least one phase has not been
accepted by the planning director within two years of the date of approval of
the master plan, the approval shall automatically expire. After that time the
applicant may resubmit the original application. The planning director may
reapprove that application unless he determines that paramount considerations
of health, the general welfare, or public safety require the application to be
reviewed in accordance with the procedures set forth in section
14-324(d). The planning director may reapprove the application only once, for a
period of 12 months.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 7.6.5)
Sec. 14-326. - Minor changes and modifications.
   (a)   The planning director is authorized to approve minor changes and
changes in ordering of phases in the approved master plan as long as such
changes continue to be in compliance with the approving action of the board of
commissioners and all other applicable requirements, but shall not have the
authority to approve changes that constitute a modification of the master plan.
Before making a determination as to whether a proposed action is a minor change
or a modification, the planning director shall review the record of the
proceedings on the original application for the master plan and subsequent
applications for modifications of the master plan and shall use the following
criteria in making the determination:
   (1)   A change in the boundaries of the site approved by the board of
commissioners shall constitute a modification;
   (2)   A change from the use approved by the board of commissioners shall
constitute a modification;
   (3)   Substantial changes in vehicular access or circulation approved by the
board of commissioners shall constitute a modification; and
   (4)   Substantial change that results in reducing the amount of landscaped
and open areas approved by the board of commissioners shall constitute a
modification.
   (b)   If the proposed action is determined to be a modification, the
planning director shall require the filing of an application for approval of
the modification. An application for a modification of a master plan shall be
reviewed in accordance with the provisions established in section
14-324(d).
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 7.6.6)
Sec. 14-327. - Development approvals.
   Once a master plan or a modification of a master plan has been approved for
a tract of land, no further development approval shall be granted unless it is
consistent with the master plan.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 7.6.7)
Sec. 14-328. - Relation to special use permit.
   If a master plan is approved for a tract of land, and an application for a
special use permit is subsequently received, then the special use permit
application must be consistent with the approved master plan. If it is
consistent with the master plan, a rebuttable presumption shall thereby be
established that the proposed development would:
   (1)   Maintain or promote the public health, safety, and general welfare;
   (2)   Maintain or enhance the value of contiguous property, or be a public
necessity; and
   (3)   Conform to county development plans and policies.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 7.6.8)
Sec. 14-329. - Abandonment or revocation of an approved master plan.
   On request by the holder of an approved master plan, the board of
commissioners, after review and recommendation by the planning board, shall
approve the abandonment of the plan if it determines that no subsequent
development approvals have been granted and no construction activity has taken
place pursuant to the master plan. On request by the holder of an approved
master plan, the board of commissioners may revoke the plan and any special use
permits approved pursuant to the master plan if it determines that:
   (1)   Construction pursuant to the plan has started;
   (2)   The request is made in conjunction with an application for approval of
a development other than that authorized by the plan;
   (3)   The proposed development as approved by the board of commissioners
would incorporate adequate consideration of the site's already disturbed land
area in its design; and
   (4)   The proposed use or development conforms with the general plans for
the physical development of the county as embodied in this chapter and in
adopted county development plans and policies.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 7.6.9)
Sec. 14-330. - Relation to preliminary plat.
   An application for approval of a master plan may be considered
simultaneously with an application for preliminary plat approval on the same
site. If both applications are approved, any development on resulting
subdivided lots must be consistent with the approved master plan. The
individual lots so created within the context of a master plan shall not be
required to meet the lot design standards of article VI of this chapter, or the
minimum lot size or building setback regulations of article II of this chapter,
provided the zoning lot containing the master plan meets such standards.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 7.6.10)
Sec. 14-331. - Additions to master plans.
   (a)   Master plans can be reviewed and approved for development tracts of at
least 20 acres under the following conditions:
   (1)   Development is proposed on tracts of a size of 20 contiguous acres;
   (2)   The proposed development is adjacent to a master plan that has been
approved by the board of commissioners; and
   (3)   The proposed uses, circulation patterns and landscape buffers are
demonstrated to be compatible with the adjacent master plan. In addition,
architecture and landscape treatments shall be demonstrated to be consistent
and in harmony with the adjacent approved master plan as specified in the
master plan permit approved by the board of commissioners.
   (b)   In such cases, application for approval of a master plan shall be
treated as a new application, and shall follow the procedures established in
this article.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 7.6.11)
Secs. 14-332—14-350. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - DESIGN STANDARDS
   Sec.
14-351. - Intent.
   Sec.
14-352. - Applicability.
   Sec.
14-353. - Design manual.
   Sec.
14-354. - General site arrangement.
   Sec.
14-355. - Site plan criteria.
   Sec.
14-356. - Site design.
   Sec.
14-357. - Access and circulation.
   Sec.
14-358. - Off-street parking and loading.
   Sec.
14-359. - Drainage and stormwater management.
   Sec.
14-360. - Water and sewer.
   Sec.
14-361. - Other utilities.
   Sec.
14-362. - Collection of solid waste and recyclables.
   Sec.
14-363. - Landscape areas.
   Sec.
14-364. - Outdoor lighting.
   Sec.
14-365. - Accessibility for the handicapped.
   Sec.
14-366. - Traffic impact analysis (TIA).
   Secs. 14-367—14-380. - Reserved.
Sec. 14-351. - Intent.
   It is the intent of this article to provide general performance standards to
ensure that development within the county planning jurisdiction will be
designed, arranged, and constructed in a safe, orderly, and visually harmonious
manner, and will reflect the basic character of the development site and its
immediate surroundings as well as the nature of the proposed uses of the site.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 8.1)
Sec. 14-352. - Applicability.
   Except where otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, no land or
structure shall be used or occupied, and no excavation, removal of soil,
clearing a site or placing fill shall take place on land contemplated for
development, and no structure, or part of a structure, shall be constructed,
erected, altered, renovated or moved except in compliance with the general
performance standards specified in this article and the specific standards
contained in the design manual required in section
14-353. These design standards shall not apply to a single-family detached
dwelling unit or an accessory dwelling unit, existing or proposed.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 8.2)
Sec. 14-353. - Design manual.
   The county manager shall develop and make available a design manual which
shall contain specific design and construction standards. Such standards shall
be in accordance with the general performance standards contained in this
article, and shall reflect, where applicable, generally accepted design and
construction practices and techniques. The design manual shall contain
sufficient flexibility in the application of specific standards so as to permit
modifications of the standards where such modifications have been determined to
be equal to or more appropriate to safe, orderly, and visually harmonious
development due to particular conditions of a development site, and that such
modifications continue to be in conformance with the general performance
standards contained in this article. The design manual is on file in the county
planning department.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 8.3)
Sec. 14-354. - General site arrangement.
   Developments shall be arranged so as to be visually harmonious both within
the development site and in relation to adjacent developments. Site design
elements of the development shall be integrated to the degree of their
compatibility with each other and shall be separated to the degree of their
incompatibility. Insofar as is practicable, developments shall be arranged so
as to preserve or enhance natural vistas. Structures shall be placed and
arranged so as not to adversely affect adjacent property. Adverse effects shall
include, but are not limited to, the removal of lateral support, the creation
of hazard, nuisance, danger or inconvenience, unreasonable loss of light and
air, or unreasonable loss of privacy or views.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 8.4)
Sec. 14-355. - Site plan criteria.
   All site plans shall demonstrate a high quality of overall site design and
in the design and construction of site elements, including appropriate
consideration of the relationship and balance among site elements, the
relationship of the development to natural features, neighboring developments,
and access and circulation systems, retention of natural vegetation, minimal
alteration of natural topography, mitigation of erosion and sedimentation,
mitigation of stormwater drainage and flooding, arrangements and orientation of
buildings and amenities in relation to each other and to neighboring streets,
landscaping, preservation or enhancement of vistas, and mitigation of traffic
impacts.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 8.4.1)
Sec. 14-356. - Site design.
   All site designs should consider design elements that include landscape
preservation, siting of buildings, drives, parking and circulation, and site
drainage within the physical constraints of a particular site. The site design
should adequately address the following key site design objectives:
   (1)   Preserves natural land contours and natural drainageways, whenever
possible;
   (2)   Is compatible with the positive character of the surrounding area in
terms of both existing character and desired future character;
   (3)   Where possible, incorporates significant tree masses and/or specimen
trees as an integral design factor;
   (4)   Minimizes harm and disruption to existing plant and animal life; and
   (5)   Sets aside areas whose physical conditions make them unsuitable for
development as conservation areas or as open space.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 8.4.2)
Sec. 14-357. - Access and circulation.
   (a)   External circulation. The type and arrangement of streets and
driveways within the development shall be in compliance with and coordinate to
the county's thoroughfare plan. Principal vehicular access points to the
development shall be designed to encourage smooth traffic flow with minimum
hazards to vehicular, pedestrian and bicycle traffic. Accommodations for
controlled turning movements into and out of the development and improvement of
the approach street shall be provided where existing or anticipated heavy
traffic flows indicate need.
   (b)   Internal circulation. Internal circulation systems shall provide the
types, amounts, and locations of accessibility appropriate to the type and size
of development, and shall be designed so as to facilitate the movement of
persons, goods, services, and waste products in a safe and efficient manner,
while minimizing impermeable surfaces. Safe and convenient vehicular access
shall be provided for emergency and service vehicles. Whenever appropriate to
the type and size of the development, the provision of a safe, efficient, and
convenient pedestrian system shall be required. The integration or separation
of circulation systems and patterns shall be provided as appropriate to the
type and size of the development and to the existing or anticipated traffic
flows.
   (c)   Sight line triangle easements. Where necessary to ensure proper
visibility for the safe flow of vehicular traffic at street intersections and
major driveway intersections with streets, sight line triangle easements shall
be provided at the corners of such intersections in accordance with the
standards set forth in the design manual. Major driveways are considered to be
those serving multifamily or nonresidential developments.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 8.5)
Sec. 14-358. - Off-street parking and loading.
   For minimum off-street parking space requirements see section 3.E of the
county design manual. For minimum off-street loading space requirements see
section 3.G of the county design manual.
   (1)   Required. Off-street parking shall be provided for all uses of land,
structures, and buildings as well as for any expansion of such uses or
increases in intensity of use in accordance with the requirements of this
section. An off-street loading space shall be provided for all retail business,
wholesale, and industrial uses as well as for any expansion of such uses or
change in use requiring the regular delivery or shipping of goods, merchandise
or equipment to the site by semitrailer trucks, in accordance with the
requirements of this section. In the case of developments containing a mix of
uses, the total requirements for off-street parking or loading space shall be
the sum of the requirements for the various uses computed separately. Off-
street parking requirements may be reduced if uses, located on the same site,
can utilize the same parking spaces during different times. (For example, a
theater that uses spaces at night could share spaces with a hardware store that
uses the same spaces during the day.)
   (2)   Methods of providing required parking and loading spaces. All required
parking or loading spaces shall be located on the same zoning lot as the
principal use it serves, except as provided below. In lieu of actual
construction of required on-site parking spaces, all or any portion of the off-
street parking required in this section may be provided by the following means.
Required parking for a use on a zoning lot may be located on another zoning
lot, either by itself or combined with the parking for other uses, subject to
certification by the planning director that the following requirements have
been met:
      a.   The use being served by the off-site parking shall be a permitted
principal use, as established in article II of this chapter, in the zoning
district within which the zoning lot containing such parking is located;
      b.   The off-street parking spaces shall be located within 500 feet
walking distance of a public entrance to the structure or land area containing
the use for which such spaces are required. A safe, direct, attractive, lighted
and convenient pedestrian route shall exist or be provided between off-street
parking and the use being served;
      c.   The continued availability of off-site parking spaces necessary to
meet the requirements of this section shall be ensured by an appropriate
restriction on the title to the land providing the off-street parking spaces,
in the form of a declaration, covenant, or contract; and
      d.   The off-site parking lot shall meet the state handicapped parking
requirements.
   (3)   Combined parking. Up to one-half of the parking spaces required for
any one use may be used to satisfy the parking requirements for either a second
use on the same zoning lot or a use for which the provisions of subsection (2)
of this section are utilized, subject to certification by the planning director
that such joint usage of parking spaces complies with the following provisions:
      a.   The peak usage of the parking facility by one use will be at night,
or on Sundays (such as with theaters, assembly halls, or places of worship),
and the peak usage of the parking facility by the second use will be at other
times; or
      b.   The second use is an ancillary use to the first use, such as
restaurant and meeting rooms to hotels and motels.
   (4)   Use of required parking and loading space. Required parking areas
shall be available for the parking of operable vehicles of residents,
customers, and employees, and shall not be used for the storage of vehicles or
materials, or for the parking of vehicles used for loading or unloading, or in
conducting the use. Required loading spaces shall be available for the loading
and unloading of vehicles, and shall not be used for the storage of vehicles
and materials, or to meet off-street parking requirements, or in conducting the
use.
   (5)   Parking design standards. All parking areas shall meet the following
minimum design requirements:
      a.   Ingress to and egress from parking areas shall conform to county
design standards.
      b.   Except for single- or two-family dwellings, all parking spaces and
maneuvering space shall be surfaced with an all-weather material, which shall
be maintained in a safe, sanitary, and neat condition.
      c.   No parking area or maneuvering space shall be located within a
public right-of-way. Parked vehicles in off-street parking spaces shall be
prevented from intruding onto travel lanes, walkways, public streets, or
adjacent properties by means of walls, curbs, wheel stops or other appropriate
means.
      d.   Except for single- or two-family dwellings, or for attendant
parking, each parking space shall be arranged so that any vehicle may be parked
and unparked without moving another vehicle.
      e.   The size of parking spaces shall be adequate for the safe parking of
vehicles, and maneuvering space shall be provided so that parking and unparking
can be accomplished in one continuous maneuver. Parking facilities designed to
accommodate ten or more vehicles shall be designed in accordance with the
standards for stalls and aisles as set forth in the county design manual.
      f.   Landscaped islands shall be required at the ends of or between
parking aisles where necessary for traffic control or drainage control.
      g.   Except for single- or two-family dwellings, parking spaces shall be
provided with adequate aisles or turnaround areas so that all vehicles may
enter streets in a forward manner.
      h.   Parking facilities shall be designed to connect with parking
facilities on adjacent zoning lots where appropriate to eliminate the need to
use the abutting street for cross movements.
      i.   All off-street parking facilities shall be provided with a drainage
system meeting the design standards contained in section
14-359.
      j.   Parking facilities designed to accommodate 25 or more vehicles shall
conform to the state handicapped parking regulations.
   (6)   Parking area landscape standards. It is the intent of this subsection
to protect and promote the public health, safety, and general welfare by
requiring the landscaping of parking areas which will serve to reduce radiant
heat from paved surfaces, to reduce wind and air turbulence, to reduce noise,
to reduce the glare of automobile lights, to ameliorate stormwater drainage
problems, and to protect and preserve the appearance, character and value of
adjacent properties. Except for single- or two-family dwellings, all parking
facilities, unless located entirely underground, shall meet the following
minimum landscaping requirements:
      a.   Parking facilities, unless located on or within a structure, shall
be separated from the exterior wall of a building, exclusive of a paved
pedestrian walkway or entranceway or loading area, by a landscape strip at
least five feet in width, which shall be landscaped in accordance with county
landscape standards.
      b.   Entryways into parking facilities shall be bordered by a landscape
buffer strip a minimum of eight feet in width, which shall be landscaped in
accordance with county landscape standards.
      c.   Ground-level parking facilities shall be set back from adjacent
streets and/or adjacent properties that are zoned residential a minimum of ten
feet. This setback area shall be landscaped in accordance with county landscape
standards.
      d.   Parking facilities that accommodate 50 or more vehicles shall
provide landscaped islands within the parking lot and shall be landscaped in
accordance with county landscape standards.
      e.   In providing the landscaping required in this subsection (6), the
retention of existing significant vegetation shall be encouraged.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 8.6)
Sec. 14-359. - Drainage and stormwater management.
   Natural drainage systems and stormwater management installations shall be
designed, constructed and maintained so as to:
   (1)   Provide for natural infiltration of stormwater;
   (2)   Control velocity of runoff flows;
   (3)   Extend the time of concentration of stormwater runoff; and
   (4)   Collect and transmit excess stormwater flows into either a constructed
drainage system or into a natural drainage system.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 8.7)
   Cross reference—Roads and other public places,
ch. 18.
Sec. 14-360. - Water and sewer.
   (a)   Service by public systems. All developments shall be served by a
county water supply and a county sanitary sewer system wherever practicable.
Fire hydrants of sufficient water pressure to provide adequate fire protection
shall be provided where necessary. All proposed public water and sanitary sewer
installations shall be approved by the county public utilities department.
Certification of such approval shall be submitted to the planning director
prior to issuance of any land use permit for the development being served. No
certificate of occupancy for a structure shall be issued until the following
documents have been submitted to the planning director:
   (1)   Certification for the county public utilities department that all
water/sewer facilities necessary to serve such structure have been completed to
county standards; and
   (2)   As-built construction drawings of those completed water and/or sewer
facilities located within a public right-of-way or easement.
   (b)   Service by individual systems. Individual water supply systems
intended to provide potable water, and/or individual subsurface sewage disposal
systems, may be permitted on a zoning lot, subject to approval by the county
health department. Certification of such approval shall be submitted to the
planning director prior to issuance of any land use permit for the development
being served.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, §§ 8.8.1, 8.8.2)
   Cross reference—Water service, § 24-41 et seq.; sewer service, §
24-101 et seq.
Sec. 14-361. - Other utilities.
   For all new developments, except residential subdivisions of seven lots or
less, all utility lines, other than lines used only to transmit electricity
between generating stations or substations and three-phase electric power
distribution lines, shall be placed underground, and all surface disruptions
required for installation shall be rehabilitated to the original or an improved
condition.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 8.8.3)
   Cross reference—Utilities,
ch. 24.
Sec. 14-362. - Collection of solid waste and recyclables.
   All multifamily, office, commercial and industrial developments should
provide secure, safe, and sanitary facilities for the storage and pickup of
solid waste and recyclables. Such facilities shall be convenient to collection
and shall be appropriate to the type and size of the development or use being
served. All solid waste and recyclable storage facilities shall be screened by
a solid wall, fence, tight evergreen hedge, or combination of a wall, fence, or
hedge. Such screening shall be of sufficient height and design to effectively
screen the facility from the view from adjacent properties and streets.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 8.9)
   Cross reference—Solid waste,
ch. 20.
Sec. 14-363. - Landscape areas.
   (a)   Purpose. Landscape areas shall be required to separate a proposed
development from adjacent major streets and different land uses or zoning
designations in order to minimize potential nuisances such as the transmission
of noise, dust, odor, litter, and glare of lights; to reduce the visual impact
of unsightly aspects of adjacent development; to provide for the separation of
spaces; and to establish a sense of privacy.
   (b)   Required. A landscape area is a strip of land together with the
landscaping or screening required thereon. Except as otherwise specifically
provided in this chapter, the type of landscape area required between proposed
development and adjacent streets, land uses or zoning designations shall be
specified in subsection (f) of this section. Width and screening specifications
for each landscape area shall be detailed and illustrated in the county design
manual. Screening required within landscape buffers is intended to provide
separation of spaces without necessarily eliminating visual contact between
spaces, and may consist of existing vegetation, planted vegetation, a
landscaped earth berm, a decorative wall, a wood fence, or a combination of the
above. Any options specified in the county design manual for the required
landscape area type shall satisfy the landscape requirements of this section.
   (c)   Location. Required landscape areas shall be located along the interior
or street lot lines nearest the adjacent streets, land uses, or zoning
designations except where such lot lines are intersected by crossing accessways
or utility easements, or by a joint parking area. Required landscape areas
shall not be located on any portion of an existing or proposed street right-of-
way or easement.
   (d)   Use. Provided the required landscape area width and screening is
maintained, a landscape area may contain utilities, pedestrian paths, and other
minor or passive uses compatible with the general separation of land uses.
   (e)   Required landscape area off-site. A landscape area meeting the
requirements of this section can be located, wholly or in part, on an adjacent
zoning lot, provided that the adjacent zoning lot owner certifies his approval
of the landscape area.
   (f)   Schedule of required landscape areas. 
Note: Specifications for each landscape area type are contained in section 6 of
the design manual.
   Landscape Area Type Chart
Adjacent ** Existing *** Principal Use     Adjacent ** Vacant Land
                                           Automotive
Proposed               Arterial            Repair,    Zoning       Zoning
Principal Residential, Street,   Collector Storage-   Districts    Districts
Use       AR           Railroad  Street    Supply     AR, MHP, RR, GB, CB, I-1,
                       (RR)                Yard, AHH, OI           IHI
                                           I-2
Adjacent ** Existing *** Principal Use       Adjacent ** Vacant Land
                                             Automotive
Proposed                 Arterial            Repair,    Zoning    Zoning
Principal   Residential, Street,   Collector Storage-   Districts Districts
Use         AR           Railroad  Street    Supply     AR, MHP,  GB, CB, I-1,
                         (RR)                Yard, AHH, RR, OI    IHI
                                             I-2
Major
residential *            B         A         C          *         B
subdivision
Multifamily A            C         B         C          A         B
O&I
Automotive
repair,     C            C         B         A          C         A
storage-                 A (RR)
supply yard
Business    B            B         B         A          B         A
use
Industrial  C            C         B         A          C         B
use                      *(RR)
Special use C            1.5 X C   1.5 X C   A          1.5 X C   A
district
 
   * - No landscape area required.
   ** - Adjacent land uses and vacant lands include uses and land across a
street from the proposed use.
   *** - Existing uses included uses approved as part of development for which
a special use permit or land use permit has been issued.
   (g)   Existing vegetation. Significant existing vegetation shall be retained
and maintained whenever possible so as to permit such vegetation to contribute
to landscape area and screening requirements.
   (h)   Maintenance of landscaping. All landscaping and screening required in
this section shall be maintained so as to continue their effectiveness.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 8.10)
Sec. 14-364. - Outdoor lighting.
   (a)   In developments contemplating the use of outdoor lighting to ensure
the security of property and the safety of persons using such development,
streets, sidewalks and facilities, all principal entrances to the development,
and internal areas as appropriate, should be sufficiently lighted to ensure the
safety of residents and the security of the building.
   (b)   All streets within a major subdivision shall incorporate a street
lighting system to ensure the security of property and the safety of persons
using such development, streets, driveways and facilities.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 8.11)
Sec. 14-365. - Accessibility for the handicapped.
   Except for single- and two-family dwellings, all buildings and facilities
used by the general public shall be accessible to and usable by the physically
handicapped in accordance with the building code provisions as established by
the state.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 8.12)
Sec. 14-366. - Traffic impact analysis (TIA).
   (1)   Purpose:  Johnston County is committed to maintaining and improving
the quality of life for current and future citizens. A major factor affecting
the quality of life has become traffic congestion along the county's major
thoroughfares and local streets within urbanizing areas. By requiring a traffic
impact analysis (TIA), the county can evaluate the effect proposed development
will have on the county's existing traffic system and enable the county to
require specific improvements. The intent of this section is to provide
developers with a clear policy as to the county's TIA expectations and to
ensure that all developments are treated equally through the establishment of
specific guidelines and improvement requirements.
   (2)   Requirement thresholds:
   (a)   Residential subdivision proposing 100 lots/units or more.
   (b)   Nonresidential subdivision proposed which generates an average daily
traffic count of 1,000+ vehicles per day or 100+ trips during peak hour of
generator. This traffic count must be based on the latest version of the
Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation Manual.
   (c)   Any residential or nonresidential development requiring a special use
permit or site plan approval which generates an average daily traffic count of
1,000+ vehicles per day or 100+ trips during peak hour of generator. This
traffic count must be based on the latest version of the Institute of
Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation Manual.
Note #1: The count is cumulative; as a proposed development reaches the
threshold, a TIA will be required for the entire development. As new phases are
proposed and once a development has reached the threshold, an additional TIA
will be conducted for each additional phase.
Note #2: Failure to meet all requirements listed within this section may
constitute disapproval of the development request.
   (3)   Retention of expert assistance and reimbursement by applicant 
   (a)   The county shall hire a consultant and/or expert necessary to assist
the county in preparing, reviewing, and evaluating the traffic impact analysis,
and at the request of the county may be asked to look at other specific issues.
   (b)   An applicant shall deposit with the county funds sufficient to
reimburse the county for all reasonable costs of consultant and expert
evaluation and consultation to the county in connection with the performance
and review of any analysis. The initial deposit shall be established by the
county and may be changed within the discretion of the county. These funds
shall be deposited at the time the subdivision application is submitted and the
county will maintain a separate escrow account for all such funds. The county's
consultants/experts shall bill or invoice the county no more frequently than
monthly for its services in reviewing the application and performing its
duties. The applicant shall immediately, upon notification by the county,
replenish said escrow account so that it has a balance established by the
county and may be changed within the discretion of the county. Such additional
escrow funds shall be deposited with the county before any further action or
consideration is taken on the subdivision application. In the event that the
amount held in escrow by the county is more than the amount of the actual
billing or invoicing at the conclusion of the project, the remaining balance
shall be promptly refunded to the applicant. All invoices submitted by the
applicant shall be itemized and be public records available for inspection.
   (c)   The total amount of the funds needed as set forth above may vary with
the scope and complexity of the project, the completeness of the application
and other information as may be needed by the county or its consultant/expert
to complete the necessary review and analysis. Additional escrow funds, as
reasonably required and requested by the county, shall be paid by the
applicant. However, notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, if
the total amount paid to the consultant exceeds $7,500.00 for a single
application, such amount shall be subject to review and approval by the county
commissioners at the request of the applicant.
   (d)   The developer may have a TIA conducted by a consultant of his or her
choice but will be required to be submitted for review and evaluation by the
County's consultant. Any cost associated with the County's review shall be paid
by the developer as described in subsections (3)(b), (c).
   (4)   Traffic impact analysis guidelines. All traffic impact analyses shall
be completed in accordance with the guidelines listed in section 10 of the
Johnston County Design Manual.
   (5)   Improvement requirements. 
   (a)   Left turn lane, right turn lane, and/or right turn taper. Based on
requirements of the NCDOT Driveway Manual or other NCDOT standards.
   (b)   Additional right-of-way. If a subject development falls along a road
projected to be widened by NCDOT or an adopted county plan, additional right-
of-way along the development's road frontage shall be dedicated as deemed
acceptable by NCDOT.
   (c)   Offsite improvements. If a road segment or intersection is currently
performing at level of service (LOS) D or better and is projected to perform at
LOS E or F at the time of build-out, improvements must be made to maintain the
road segment or intersection at LOS D. If a road segment or intersection is
currently performing at level of service (LOS) E or F and is projected to
continue to perform at LOS E or F at the time of build-out, the TIA shall
demonstrate how an LOS D could be achieved and also specify what improvements
must be made to ensure that the road segment or intersection is not degraded
any further than the current levels.
   (d)   Other necessary improvements. Additional improvements may be required
based on the TIA recommendations related to topographic/environmental
conditions, sight distance, street offsets, conflicting movements, existing
traffic accident counts, circulation, and other potential traffic issues
resulting from the proposed development. Additionally, the planning board may
determine that additional improvements are necessary to ensure the safety and
welfare of the county's citizens and travelers.
(Amend. of 11-8-2004; Amend. of 02-03-2010(2))
Secs. 14-367—14-380. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. - STORMWATER MANAGEMENT [13] 
   (13) Cross reference—Utilities,
ch. 24.
   Sec.
14-381. - Purpose.
   Sec.
14-382. - Applicability.
   Sec.
14-383. - Exceptions to applicability.
   Sec.
14-384. - Definitions.
   Sec.
14-385. - Interpretation.
   Sec.
14-386. - Enforcement.
   Sec.
14-387. - Drainage system.
   Sec.
14-388. - Stormwater permit.
   Sec.
14-389. - Fees.
   Sec.
14-390. - Stormwater management plans.
   Sec.
14-391. - Stormwater BMP inspection, maintenance and easement requirements.
   Sec.
14-392. - Discharges and connections.
   Sec.
14-393. - Riparian buffer protection (for lands within the Neuse River Basin).
   Sec.
14-394. - Right to enter.
   Sec.
14-395. - Variances.
   Secs. 14-396—14-420. - Reserved.
Sec. 14-381. - Purpose.
   The purpose of this article is to establish minimum criteria to control and
minimize quantitative and qualitative impacts of stormwater runoff from
development within the county, a nutrient management program for new
development in accordance with 15A NCAC 2B .0235 Neuse River Basin - Nutrient
Sensitive Waters Management Strategy: Basinwide Stormwater Requirements and to
establish regulations to provide additional protection within the
environmentally sensitive area district (ES). Further, prudent site planning
should include special consideration for the purposes of preserving natural
drainageways, maximizing infiltration, and slowing stormwater runoff from
individual sites en route to streams and rivers by use of effective runoff
management, structural and nonstructural best management practices, drainage
structures, and stormwater facilities.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 9.1; Ord. of 1-2-2001, § 9.1)
Sec. 14-382. - Applicability.
   The provisions of this article shall apply to all areas within the planning
jurisdictional limits of the county. The provisions of the environmentally
sensitive area district shall apply to those areas defined and established on
the map entitled "Environmentally Sensitive Areas of Johnston County, North
Carolina."
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 9.2; Ord. of 1-2-2001, § 9.2)
Sec. 14-383. - Exceptions to applicability.
   The provisions of this article shall not apply to:
   (1)   Developers/property owners that can demonstrate that they have vested
rights as of the adoption date of the revised stormwater ordinance from which
this article is derived shall be exempt from the revised stormwater ordinance.
   (2)   Exemption from storm attenuation. Developments that meet one of the
following requirements shall be exempt from storm attenuation:
      a.   The increase in peak flow between pre- and post-development
conditions does not exceed ten percent; or
      b.   The proposed development meets all of the following criteria:
overall impervious surface is less than 15 percent outside the ES and 12
percent inside the ES, and the pervious portions of the site are utilized to
the extent practical to convey and control stormwater runoff.
   Nutrient management and/or reduction shall still be required.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 9.2.1; Ord. of 1-2-2001, § 9.2.1)
Sec. 14-384. - Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Applicant means an owner or developer of a site who executes the stormwater
permit application pursuant to this article and is considered the applicant.
   Best management practices (BMPs) means a wide range of practices that have
been demonstrated to effectively manage the quality and/or quantity of
stormwater runoff and which are compatible with the planned land use. BMPs can
be structural (detention ponds, wetlands, etc.) or nonstructural (reduced road
pavement width, cluster development, etc.).
   Channel bank means the location of the upper edge of the active channel
above which the water spreads into the overbanks on either side of the channel
or the elevation of the two-year frequency storm. Where the channel bank is not
well defined, the channel bank shall be considered the edge of the waterline.
   Design storm means the specific frequency and, if necessary, duration of the
rainfall event to be used in design to meet the criteria established in the
stormwater design manual.
   Development means any of the following actions taken by a public or private
individual or entity:
   (1)   The division of a lot, tract or parcel of land into two or more lots,
plots, sites, tracts, parcels or other divisions by plat or deed; or
   (2)   Any land change, including, without limitation, clearing, tree
removal, grubbing, stripping, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting and
filling of land.
   Drainage structures include swales, channels, storm sewers, curb inlets,
yard inlets, culverts and other structures designed to convey stormwater.
   Existing development means an individual nonresidential site with site plan
approval by the planning department or a nonresidential or residential
subdivision with preliminary subdivision approval from the planning board.
   Illegal discharge means any unlawful disposal, placement, emptying, dumping,
spillage, leakage, pumping, pouring, or other discharge of any substance other
than stormwater into a stormwater conveyance system, the waters of the state or
upon the land such that the substance is likely to reach a stormwater
conveyance system or waters of the state and constitutes an illegal discharge.
   Impervious surface means a surface composed of any material that impedes or
prevents natural infiltration of water into the soil. Gravel areas shall be
considered impervious.
   Land disturbance means removal of topsoil, grubbing, stump removal and/or
grading.
   Natural drainageway means an incised channel with a defined channel bed and
banks that are part of the natural topography. Construction channels such as
drainage ditches shall not be considered a natural drainageway unless the
constructed channel was a natural drainageway that has been relocated, widened,
or otherwise improved.
   New development means as follows:
   (1)   Any activity that disturbs more than one acre of land or creates more
than 17,000 square feet of impervious surfaces for a single-family or duplex
residential development, recreational facility, or multifamily, institutional,
commercial or industrial development; and
   (2)   New development shall not include mining, agricultural or forestry
activities.
   Riparian buffer means an area of trees, shrubs, or other forest vegetation,
that is adjacent to surface waters. For purposes of this article, surface water
shall be present if the feature is approximately shown on either the most
recent version of the county soil survey report prepared by the NRCS or the
most recent version of the 1:24,000 scale (7.5 min.) quadrangle topographic
maps prepared by the United States Geological Survey. Riparian buffers adjacent
to surface waters that do not appear on either of the maps shall not be subject
to this article, except as noted in section
14-103.
   Stormwater means flow resulting from and occurring after any form of
precipitation.
   Stormwater administrator means the person designated by the county manager
to have authority to review and approve stormwater permits and stormwater
management plans. The stormwater administrator shall also be responsible for
inspecting development and enforcing the provisions of this article.
   Stormwater conveyance system or structure means any feature, natural or
manmade, that collects and transports stormwater, including, but not limited
to, roadways with collection systems, catch basins, manmade and natural
channels, streams, pipes and culverts, and any other structure or system
designed to transport runoff.
   Stormwater design manual means the manual of design, performance, and review
criteria adopted by the board of commissioners for the administration of the
stormwater program.
   Vegetative buffer means an area that has a dense ground cover of herbaceous
or woody species, which provides for diffusion and infiltration of runoff and
filtering of pollutants.
   Vested rights for stormwater shall be based upon the following criteria:
   (1)   Having an outstanding valid building permit in compliance with G.S.
160D-108 and 160D-108.1; or
   (2)   Having an approved site specific or phased development plan in
compliance with G.S. 160D-108 and 160D-108.1.
Projects that require a state permit, such as landfills, NPDES wastewater
discharges, land application or residuals and road construction activities,
shall be considered to have vested rights if a state permit was issued prior to
the effective date of the adoption of the revised stormwater ordinance from
which this article is derived.
   Water dependent structures means those structures that require the access or
proximity to, or sitting within surface waters to fulfill its basic purpose,
such as boat ramps, boathouses, docks, and bulkheads. Ancillary facilities such
as restaurants, outlets for boat supplies, parking lots, and commercial boat
storage areas are not considered water-dependent structures.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 9.3; Ord. of 1-2-2001, § 9.3; Amend. of - - )
   Cross reference—Definitions generally, §
1-2.
Sec. 14-385. - Interpretation.
   In interpreting and applying this article, the requirements are intended to
be minimum requirements, which are imposed and are to be conformed to, and are
in addition to, and not in lieu of, all other legal requirements. This section
shall not be deemed to interfere with or annul or otherwise affect in any
manner whatsoever any ordinance, rule, regulation, permit, or easement,
covenant, or other agreement between parties; provided, however, where this
article imposes greater restrictions and controls with respect to stormwater
management, the provisions of this article shall prevail.
(Ord. of 1-2-2001, § 9.4)
Sec. 14-386. - Enforcement.
   (a)   Violations. Whenever, by the provisions of this article, the
performance of any act is required, or the performance of any act is
prohibited, or whenever any regulation or limitation is imposed on the use of
any land, or on the erection, alteration, or the use or change of use of a
structure, a failure to comply with such provisions shall constitute a
violation of this article. The owner, tenant, or occupant of any land or
structure, or part thereof, and any architect, engineer, builder, contractor,
agent, or other person who participates in, assists, directs, creates, or
maintains any situation that is contrary to the requirements of this article
may be held responsible for the violation and be subject to the penalties and
remedies provided in this section. Failure to follow an approved stormwater
management plan or permit shall constitute a violation of this article and
shall be subject to the penalties and remedies provided in this article.
   (b)   Procedures upon discovery of violations. Procedures upon discovery of
violations of this article shall be as follows:
   (1)   Upon determination that any provision of this article is being
violated, the stormwater administrator shall deliver a written notice by
personal service or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested,
to the person responsible for such violation, indicating the nature of the
violation, ordering the action necessary to correct it and outlining the
timeframe for gaining compliance. Additional written notices may be sent at the
stormwater administrator's discretion.
   (2)   The final written notice, which may also be the initial notice, shall
state the enforcement action the county intends to take if the violation is not
corrected, and shall advise that the stormwater administrator's order may be
appealed to the board of adjustment as provided in article XI of this chapter.
   In cases when delay would seriously threaten the effective enforcement of
this article, or pose a danger to the public health, safety, or general
welfare, the stormwater administrator may seek enforcement without prior
written notice by invoking any of the penalties or remedies contained in this
section.
   (c)   Penalties and remedies. Penalties and remedies for a violation of this
article shall be as follows:
   (1)   Any violation of any provision of any section of this article shall
constitute a misdemeanor and shall subject the violator to a penalty of $500.00
and/or imprisonment for not more than 30 days.
   (2)   Development that begins land disturbing activities prior to obtaining
a stormwater management permit shall also be subject to a one-time $1,000.00
penalty.
   (3)   Illegal discharge. Any designer, engineer, consultant, contractor or
person that allows, acts in concert, participates, directs or assists directly
or indirectly in an illegal discharge shall be subject to civil penalties as
follows:
      a.   For first time offenders if the quantity of the discharge is equal
to or less than five gallons and consists of domestic or household products,
such person shall be assessed a civil penalty not to exceed $100.00 per
violation or per day for any continuing violation. If the quantity of the
discharge is greater than five gallons or contains nondomestic substances or if
the person cannot provide clear and convincing evidence of the volume and
nature of the substance discharged, such person shall be assessed a civil
penalty not to exceed $1,000.00 per violation or per day for any continuing
violation.
      b.   For repeat offenders, the amount of the penalty shall be double the
amount assessed for the previous penalty, not to exceed $10,000.00 per
violation or per day for any continuing violation.
      c.   The county manager or his designee shall take the following into
consideration when determining the civil penalty amount:
         1.   The degree and extent of harm to the environment, public health,
and property;
         2.   The cost of remedying the damage;
         3.   The willfulness of the violation;
         4.   The duration of the violation;
         5.   The violator's prior record in complying or failing to comply
with this article; and
         6.   The amount of money saved by the violator by noncompliance.
   If the offender fails to pay the penalty within ten days of receiving final
written notice of a violation, the county in a civil action may recover the
penalty. A civil penalty may not be appealed to the board of adjustment if the
offender received a final written notice of violation and did not appeal to the
board of adjustment within 30 days. Each day that any violation continues after
receipt of the final written notice of such violation shall constitute a
separate violation and a separate offense for purposes of the penalties and
remedies specified in this section. In addition to the penalties and remedies
of this section, the county may institute any appropriate action or proceedings
to prevent, restrain, correct, or abate a violation of this article.
(Ord. of 1-2-2001, § 9.13)
Sec. 14-387. - Drainage system.
   Stormwater shall be conveyed from a development in an adequately designed
drainage system of natural drainageways, grass swales, storm sewers, culverts,
inlets, and channels. Drainage systems shall be designed, constructed, and
maintained to encourage natural infiltration, control velocity, control
flooding, and extend the time of concentration of stormwater runoff. The post-
development runoff rate for the one-year storm event shall be attenuated to the
predevelopment runoff rate for the one-year storm. The nitrogen loading
contributed by new development shall be restricted to 3.6 pounds of nitrogen
per acre per year. Methodologies for determining nitrogen loading are outlined
in the stormwater design manual. A developer has the option of offsetting the
nitrogen loading from a development by paying into the state wetlands
restoration program. Procedures for offset payments are outlined in the
stormwater design manual. When using the offset payment, the total nitrogen
loading from a development shall not exceed six pounds per acre per year for
residential development and ten pounds per acre per year for nonresidential
development.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 9.5; Ord. of 1-2-2001, § 9.7)
Sec. 14-388. - Stormwater permit.
   (a)   Except where provided elsewhere in this chapter, land disturbing
activities shall not commence without obtaining a stormwater permit pursuant to
the provisions of this article and the stormwater design manual. The stormwater
permit application shall be made by, or on behalf of, the owner or developer of
the site for which the permit is sought. The application shall be filed with
the county on a form supplied by the county and shall be accompanied with the
information identified in the stormwater design manual. A stormwater permit
shall not be issued until the following conditions are met:
   (1)   Approval of the stormwater management plan by the stormwater
administrator.
   (2)   Submission and approval of any required easements and impervious area
statements on a map to be recorded.
   (3)   Submission and approval of any required inspection and maintenance
agreement and/or escrow account or other legal instrument established to ensure
longterm maintenance of BMPs.
   (4)   Payment of all fees.
   (b)   If the development requires approval of an erosion and sediment
control plan, the stormwater permit will be conditional upon the owner
receiving such erosion and sediment control approval. The stormwater permit
will be valid for one year from the date of issuance or until significant
changes in the development are made that change the intent of the permit. The
stormwater administrator shall determine significant changes. If significant
changes are made, the original stormwater permit shall not be valid, and a new
permit shall be required.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 9.4; Ord. of 1-2-2001, § 9.5)
Sec. 14-389. - Fees.
   A list of fees associated with this article is available at the office of
the clerk to the board of commissioners in the county courthouse.
(Ord. of 1-2-2001, § 9.6)
Sec. 14-390. - Stormwater management plans.
   Stormwater management plans shall:
   (1)   Include drawings, maps, supporting calculations, specifications, and
summaries as outlined in the stormwater design manual.
   (2)   Demonstrate through accepted engineering practices described in the
stormwater design manual the impacts of the proposed development. Impacts of
the proposed development shall include:
      a.   Effects on existing upstream and/or downstream drainage systems and
property;
      b.   Ability of the natural drainageway to handle additional stormwater
runoff; and
      c.   Site-specific criteria supporting the analysis of any impacts noted
in subsections (2)a. and (2)b. of this section.
   (3)   Demonstrate through accepted engineering practices described in the
stormwater design manual that stormwater runoff is adequately conveyed through
the development in a drainage system designed to meet the criteria described in
the stormwater design manual.
   (4)   Demonstrate through accepted engineering practices described in the
stormwater design manual that stormwater facilities required to control the
impacts of the development are designed to meet the criteria described in the
stormwater design manual.
   (5)   Demonstrate that the nitrogen loading from the new development does
not exceed the limits set forth in section
14-387.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 9.5.1; Ord. of 1-2-2001, § 9.7.1)
Sec. 14-391. - Stormwater BMP inspection, maintenance and easement
requirements.
   (a)   Maintenance agreement. A written inspection and maintenance agreement
in a form acceptable to the county attorney and executed by the applicant and
the owner of the BMP, if different than the applicant, shall be provided prior
to receiving a stormwater permit. The agreement shall:
   (1)   Bind the parties thereto and all subsequent owners, successors, and
assigns to maintenance and inspection of the system or structure.
   (2)   State that if the county directs the correction, repair, replacement,
or maintenance of the system or structure in writing and the actions are not
satisfactorily performed within a reasonable time (but not greater than 120
days), the county (or its contractors) may, after reasonable notice, enter the
land and perform all the necessary work and may assess the owner of the
facility with the cost of the work performed or the county can seize all or
part of the escrow or other fund set aside by the applicant for perpetual
maintenance. The owner served by the facility shall be jointly responsible to
the county for the maintenance of the facility and liable for any costs
incurred by the county pursuant to the agreement. All properties are jointly
subject to the imposition of the liens for such costs.
   (3)   The inspection and maintenance agreement shall be recorded in the
register of deeds at the expense of the applicant.
   (b)   Easements. Easements for stormwater BMPs shall include the area of the
BMP, area of ponded water, and enough area for access and maintenance. The
easement shall be recorded in the register of deeds at the expense of the
applicant and shall be depicted on the final plat or recorded map.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 9.6; Ord. of 1-2-2001, § 9.8)
Sec. 14-392. - Discharges and connections.
   (a)   Illegal discharge. No person shall cause or allow the discharge,
disposal, pouring or pumping directly or indirectly to any stormwater
conveyance structure, stormwater conveyance system, stream, lake, pond, wetland
or other body of water, or upon the land in proximity to the same, any fluid,
solid or other substance (other than stormwater). Prohibited substances
include, but are not limited to oil, antifreeze, chemicals, animal waste,
paints, garbage and litter. Examples of illegal discharges are:
   (1)   Dumping of oil, antifreeze, paint or cleaning fluids.
   (2)   Untreated commercial carwash washwater.
   (3)   Industrial discharges.
   (4)   Contaminated foundation drains.
   (5)   Cooling waters, unless no chemicals are added and have a valid NPDES
permit.
   (6)   Washwater from commercial and industrial activities.
   (7)   Chlorinated backwash and draining associated with swimming pools.
   (8)   Domestic wastewater.
   (9)   Septic system effluent.
   (10)   Washing machine discharges.
   (b)   Allowable discharges. Examples of allowed discharges under this
article are:
   (1)   Water line flushing.
   (2)   Irrigation.
   (3)   Uncontaminated groundwater pumping.
   (4)   Street wash water.
   (5)   Dechlorinated backwash and drainage associated with swimming pools.
   (6)   NPDES permitted discharges.
   (c)   Illegal connections. Connections to a stormwater conveyance system or
structure that allow the discharge of nonstormwater are unlawful. Prohibited
connections include, but are not limited to:
   (1)   Floor drains.
   (2)   Wastewater from washing machines or sanitary sewers.
   (3)   Wash water from commercial vehicle washing or steam cleaning.
   (4)   Wastewater from septic systems.
   (d)   Determination of connection. Upon determining that a connection to a
stormwater conveyance system:
   (1)   May result in the discharge of hazardous materials, may pose a threat
to health and safety, or is likely to result in immediate injury or harm to
human or animal life, natural resources, to real or personal property, or
habitat; or
   (2)   Was made in violation of any applicable regulation or ordinance.
   The stormwater administrator shall outline in a notice of violation, sent by
certified mail, the time in which the connection shall be removed. Failure to
comply with the terms and deadlines set in the notice of violation will
constitute a violation of this article.
(Ord. of 1-2-2001, § 9.9)
Sec. 14-393. - Riparian buffer protection (for lands within the Neuse River
Basin).
   This section is adopted pursuant to the authority vested in Johnston County
by the Session Laws and the General Statutes of North Carolina, particularly
G.S. 153A-121, 153A-140, ch. 153A, article 18, G.S. 160A-174, 160A-193, ch.
160A, article 19, and any special legislation enacted by the General Assembly
for Johnston County.
   (a)   Purpose and intent. The purposes of Johnston County in adopting the
following section is to protect and preserve existing riparian buffers
throughout the Neuse River Watershed within the county's jurisdiction as
generally described in Rule 15A NCAC 02B .0233 (Neuse River Basin: Nutrient
Sensitive Waters Management Strategy: Protection and Maintenance of Existing
Riparian Buffers), in order to maintain their nutrient removal and stream
protection functions. Additionally this section will help protect the water
supply uses of the Neuse River and of designated water supplies throughout the
Neuse River watershed.
   Buffers adjacent to streams provide multiple environmental protection and
resource management benefits. Forested buffers enhance and protect the natural
ecology of stream systems, as well as water quality through bank stabilization,
shading, and nutrient removal. They also help to minimize flood damage in flood
prone areas. Well-vegetated streamside riparian areas help to remove nitrogen
and prevent sediment and sediment-bound pollutants such as phosphorous from
reaching the streams.
   (b)   Title. This section shall be known as the Johnston County Riparian
Buffer Protection Ordinance [for Lands within the Neuse River Watershed].
   (c)   Jurisdiction. This section shall be applied to all land in the
planning jurisdiction of Johnston County that is located within the Neuse River
Watershed.
   (d)   Applicability. This section applies to all landowners and other
persons conducting activities in the area described in subsection (c), with the
exception of activities conducted under the authority of the state, the United
States, multiple jurisdictions, or local units of government, and forest
harvesting and agricultural activities. The Environmental Management Commission
shall administer the requirements of Rule 15A NCAC 02B .0233 and .0242 (Neuse
River Basin: Nutrient Sensitive Waters Management Strategy: Protection of
Existing Riparian Buffers and Mitigation Program for Protection and Maintenance
of Existing Riparian Buffers, respectively) for these activities.
   (e)    Relation to other ordinances. The requirements of this section shall
supersede all locally implemented buffer requirements stated in Rules 15A NCAC
02B .0214 through .0216 as applied to WS-II, WS-III, and WS-IV waters in the
Neuse River watershed. If the provisions of this section otherwise conflict
with the provisions of any other validly enforceable ordinance(s) or laws, the
most stringent provisions shall control. This section is not intended to
interfere with, abrogate, or annul any other ordinance, rule, regulation, or
other provision of law.
   (f)   Riparian area protection within the Neuse River Watershed.
      (1)   Buffers protected. The following minimum criteria shall be used for
identifying regulated buffers:
         i.   This section shall apply to 50-foot wide riparian buffers
directly adjacent to surface waters in the Neuse River Basin (intermittent
streams, perennial streams, lakes, ponds, and estuaries), excluding wetlands.
The riparian buffers protected by this Rule shall be measured pursuant to
subsection (f)(4) of this Rule. For the purpose of this Rule, a surface water
shall be present if the feature is approximately shown on either the most
recent version of the soil survey map prepared by the Natural Resources
Conservation Service of the United States Department of Agriculture or the most
recent version of the 1:24,000 scale (7.5 minute) quadrangle topographic maps
prepared by the United States Geologic Survey (USGS). Riparian buffers adjacent
to surface waters that do not appear on either of the maps shall not be subject
to this Rule. Riparian buffers adjacent to surface waters that appear on the
maps shall be subject to this Rule unless one of the following applies.
         ii.   Wetlands adjacent to surface waters or within 50 feet of surface
waters shall be considered as part of the riparian buffer but are regulated
pursuant to Rules 15A NCAC 2B .0230 and .0231, Rules 15A NCAC 2H .0500, 15A
NCAC 2H .1300, and Sections 401 and 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act.
         iii.   For the purpose of this section, a surface water shall be
present if the feature is approximately shown on only one of the following
types of maps:
            a.   The most recent version of the soil survey map prepared by the
Natural Resources Conservation Service of the United States Department of
Agriculture.
            b.   The most recent version of the 1:24,000 scale (7.5 minute)
quadrangle topographic maps prepared by the United States Geologic Survey
(USGS).
         iv.   Where the specific origination point of a stream regulated under
this Item is in question, upon request of the NC Division of Water Resources or
another party, Johnston County shall make an on-site determination. A Johnston
County representative who has successfully completed the Division's Surface
Water Identification Training Certification course, its successor, or other
equivalent training curriculum approved by the Division, shall establish that
point using the latest version of the Division publication, Identification
Methods for the Origins of Intermittent and Perennial Streams, available at
http://h2o.enr.state.nc.us/ncwetlands/ documents/NC_Stream_ID_Manual.pdf or
from the NC Division of Water Resources - 401 & Buffer Permitting Unit, or its
successor. Any disputes over on-site determinations made according to this Item
shall be referred to the Director of the Division of Water Resources c/o the
401 & Buffer Permitting Unit, or its successor, in writing. The director's
determination is subject to review as provided in articles 3 and 4 of G.S. ch.
150B.
         v.   Riparian buffers protected by this section shall be measured
pursuant to subsection (f)(4) of this section.
         vi.   Parties subject to this section shall abide by all state rules
and laws regarding waters of the state including but not limited to Rules 15A
NCAC 2B .0230 and .0231, Rules 15A NCAC 2H .0500, 15A NCAC 2H .1300, and
Sections 401 and 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act.
         vii.   No new clearing, grading, or development shall take place nor
shall any new building permits be issued in violation of this section.
      (2)   Exemption based on on-site determination. When a landowner or other
affected party, including the Division, believes that the maps have
inaccurately depicted surface waters, he or she shall consult the environmental
and stormwater manager. Upon request, a Johnston County representative who has
successfully completed the Division’s Surface Water Identification Training
Certification course, its successor, or other equivalent training curriculum
approved by the division, shall make an on-site determination. Any disputes
over on-site determinations shall be referred to the director of the Division
of Water Resources c/o the 401 & Buffer Permitting Unit, or its successor, in
writing. A determination of the director as to the accuracy or application of
the maps is subject to review as provided in articles 3 and 4 of G.S. ch. 150B.
Surface waters that appear on the maps shall not be subject to these buffer
requirements if a site evaluation reveals any of the following cases:
         i.   Man-made ponds and lakes that are not part of a natural drainage
way that is classified in accordance with 15A NCAC 2B .0100, including ponds
and lakes created for animal watering, irrigation, or other agricultural uses.
(A pond or lake is part of a natural drainage way when it is fed by an
intermittent or perennial stream or when it has a direct discharge point to an
intermittent or perennial stream.)
         ii.   Ephemeral streams.
         iii.   The absence on the ground of a corresponding intermittent or
perennial stream, lake, reservoir, or pond.
         iv.   Ditches or other man-made water conveyances, other than modified
natural streams.
      (3)   Exemption when existing uses are present and ongoing. This section
shall not apply to portions of the riparian buffer where a use is existing and
ongoing according to the following:
         i.   It existed prior to July 22, 1997, the effective date of the
Neuse Rule and has continued to exist since that time. Existing uses shall
include agriculture, buildings, industrial facilities, commercial areas,
transportation facilities, maintained lawns, utility lines and on-site sanitary
sewage systems, any of which involve either specific, periodic management of
vegetation or displacement of vegetation by structures or regular activity.
Only the portion of the riparian buffer occupied by the footprint of the
existing use is exempt from this section. Change of ownership through purchase
or inheritance is not a change of use. Activities necessary to maintain uses
are allowed provided that the site remains similarly vegetated, no impervious
surface is added within 50 feet of the surface water where it did not
previously exist as of July 22, 1997, and existing diffuse flow is maintained.
Grading and revegetating Zone Two is allowed provided that the health of the
vegetation in Zone One is not compromised, the ground is stabilized and
existing diffuse flow is maintained.
         ii.   At the time an existing use is proposed to be converted to
another use, this Rule shall apply. An existing use shall be considered to be
converted to another use if any of the following applies:
            a.   Impervious surface is added to the riparian buffer in
locations where it did not exist previously.
            b.   An agricultural operation within the riparian buffer is
converted to a non-agricultural use.
            c.   A lawn within the riparian buffer ceases to be maintained.
      (4)   Zones of the riparian buffer. The protected riparian buffer shall
have two zones as follows:
         i.   Zone One shall consist of a vegetated area that is undisturbed
except for uses provided for in the Table of Uses, subsection (g)(2) of this
section. The location of Zone One shall be as follows:
            a.   For intermittent and perennial streams, Zone One shall begin
at the most landward limit of the top of bank or the rooted herbaceous
vegetation and extend landward a distance of 30 feet on all sides of the
surface water, measured horizontally on a line perpendicular to the surface
water.
            b.   For ponds, lakes and reservoirs located within a natural
drainage way, Zone One shall begin at the most landward limit of the normal
water level or rooted herbaceous vegetation and extend landward a distance of
30 feet, measured horizontally on a line perpendicular to a vertical line
marking the normal water level.
         ii.   Zone Two shall consist of a stable, vegetated area that is
undisturbed except for uses provided for in the Table of Uses, subsection 8.(B)
of this section. Grading and revegetating in Zone Two is allowed provided that
the health of the vegetation in Zone One is not compromised. Zone Two shall
begin at the outer edge of Zone One and extend landward 20 feet as measured
horizontally on a line perpendicular to the surface water. The combined width
of Zones One and Two shall be 50 feet on all sides of the surface water.
      (5)   Diffuse flow requirements. Diffuse flow of runoff shall be
maintained in the riparian buffer by dispersing concentrated flow prior to its
entry into the buffer and reestablishing vegetation as follows:
         i.   Concentrated runoff from new ditches or man-made conveyances
shall be converted to diffuse flow at non-erosive velocities before the runoff
enters Zone Two of the riparian buffer;
         ii.   Periodic corrective action to restore diffuse flow shall be
taken as necessary and shall be designed to impede the formation of erosion
gullies; and
         iii.   As set out in subsections (f)(4) and (g)(2) of this section,
Zones of the riparian buffer and Table of Uses respectively, no new stormwater
conveyances are allowed through the buffers except for those specified in the
Table of Uses, subsection (g)(2) of this section, addressing stormwater
management ponds, drainage ditches, roadside ditches, and stormwater
conveyances.
   (g)   Potential uses and associated requirements.
      (1)   Approval for new development. Johnston County shall issue an
approval for new development only if the development application proposes to
avoid impacts to riparian buffers defined in subsection (f)(1) of this section,
or where the application proposes to impact such buffers, it demonstrates that
the applicant has done the following, as applicable:
         i.   Determined the activity is exempt from requirements of this
section;
         ii.   Received an Authorization Certificate from Johnston County
pursuant to subsection (h)(1) of this section;
         iii.   For uses designated as Allowable with Mitigation in the Table
of Uses in subsection (g)(2), received approval of mitigation plan pursuant to
subsection (h)(3) of this section; and
         iv.   Received a variance pursuant to subsection (h)(2).
      (2)   Table of Uses. The following chart sets out potential new uses
within the buffer, or outside the buffer with impacts on the buffer, and
categorizes them as exempt, allowable, or allowable with mitigation. All uses
not categorized as exempt, allowable, or allowable with mitigation are
considered prohibited and may not proceed within the riparian buffer or outside
the buffer if the use would impact the buffer, unless a variance is granted
pursuant to subsection (h)(2) of this section, Variances. The requirements for
each category are given in subsection (g)(3) of this section following the
Table of Uses.
Use Exempt* Allowable* Allowable with Mitigation*
                                                                                                  Allowable
Use                                                                            Exempt* Allowable* with
                                                                                                  Mitigation*
Airport facilities:
• Airport facilities that impact equal to or less than 150 linear feet or one-       X
third of an acre of riparian buffer
• Airport facilities that impact greater than 150 linear feet or one-third of                   X
an acre of riparian buffer
Archaeological activities                                                      X
Bridges                                                                                X
Dam maintenance activities:
• Dam maintenance activities that do not cause additional buffer disturbance
beyond the footprint of the existing dam or those covered under the U.S. Army  X
Corps of Engineers Nationwide Permit No. 3
• Dam maintenance activities that do cause additional buffer disturbance
beyond the footprint of the existing dam or those not covered under the U.S.           X
Army Corps of Engineers Nationwide Permit No. 3
Drainage ditches, roadside ditches and stormwater conveyances through riparian
buffers:
• New stormwater flows to existing drainage ditches, roadside ditches, and
stormwater conveyances provided flows do not alter or result in the need to    X
alter the conveyance and are managed to minimize the sediment, nutrients and
other pollution that convey to waterbodies.
• New drainage ditches, roadside ditches and stormwater outfalls provided that
a stormwater management facility is installed to control nitrogen and                  X
attenuate flow before the conveyance discharges through the riparian buffer.
Drainage of a pond in a natural drainage way provided that a new riparian
buffer that meets the requirements of (f)(4) and (f)(5) of this section is     X
established adjacent to the new channel
Driveway crossings of streams and other surface waters subject to this
section:
• Driveway crossings on single family residential lots that disturb equal to X
or less than 25 linear feet or 2,500 square feet of riparian buffer
• Driveway crossings on single family residential lots that disturb greater          X
than 25 linear feet or 2,500 square feet of riparian buffer
• In a subdivision that cumulatively disturb equal to or less than 150 linear        X
feet or one-third of an acre of riparian buffer
• In a subdivision that cumulatively disturb greater than 150 linear feet or                    X
one-third of an acre of riparian buffer
Fences:
• Fences provided that disturbance is minimized and installation does not    X
result in removal of trees as defined in this section
Forest Harvesting - See Section (4) of this Ordinance
Fertilizer application: one-time application to establish vegetation           X
Grading and revegetation in Zone Two provided that diffuse flow and the health
of existing vegetation in Zone One is not compromised and disturbed areas are  X
stabilized until they are revegetated.
Greenway / hiking trails designed, constructed and maintained to maximize
nutrient removal and erosion protection, minimize adverse effects on aquatic           X
life and habitat, and protect water quality to the maximum extent practical.
Historic preservation                                                          X
Maintenance access on modified natural streams: a grassed travel way on one
side of the water body when less impacting alternatives are not practical. The
width and specifications of the travel way shall be only that needed for               X
equipment access and operation. The travel way shall be located to maximize
stream shading.
Mining activities:
• Mining activities that are covered by the Mining Act provided that new
riparian buffers that meet the requirements of subsections (f)(4) and (f)(5)           X
of this section are established adjacent to the relocated channels
• Mining activities that are not covered by the Mining Act OR where new
riparian buffers that meet the requirements of subsections (f)(4) and (f)(5)                      X
of this section are not established adjacent to the relocated channels
• Wastewater or mining dewatering wells with approved NPDES permit           X
Playground equipment:
• Playground equipment on single family lots provided that installation and  X
use does not result in removal of vegetation
• Playground equipment installed on lands other than single-family lots or           X
that requires removal of vegetation
Ponds created by impounding streams and not used as stormwater BMPs:
• New ponds provided that a riparian buffer that meets the requirements of
subsections (f)(4) and (f)(5) of this section is established adjacent to the           X
pond
• New ponds where a riparian buffer that meets the requirements of subsections                  X
(f)(4) and (f)(5) of this section is NOT established adjacent to the pond
Protection of existing structures, facilities and stream banks when this               X
requires additional disturbance of the riparian buffer or the stream channel
Railroad impacts other than crossings of streams and other surface waters                         X
subject to this section.
Railroad crossings of streams and other surface waters subject to this
section:
• Railroad crossings that impact equal to or less than 40 linear feet of     X
riparian buffer
• Railroad crossings that impact greater than 40 linear feet but equal to or         X
less than 150 linear feet or one-third of an acre of riparian buffer
• Railroad crossings that impact greater than 150 linear feet or one-third of                   X
an acre of riparian buffer
Removal of previous fill or debris provided that diffuse flow is maintained    X
and vegetation is restored
Road impacts other than crossings of streams and other surface waters subject                     X
to this section
Road crossings of streams and other surface waters subject to this section:
• Road crossings that impact equal to or less than 40 linear feet of riparianX
buffer
• Road crossings that impact greater than 40 linear feet but equal to or less        X
than 150 linear feet or one-third of an acre of riparian buffer
• Road crossings that impact greater than 150 linear feet or one-third of an                    X
acre of riparian buffer
Stormwater BMPs:
• Wet detention, bioretention, and constructed wetlands in Zone Two if diffuse       X
flow of discharge is provided into Zone One
• Wet detention, bioretention, and constructed wetlands in Zone One                             X
Scientific studies and stream gauging                                          X
Streambank or shoreline stabilization                                                  X
Temporary roads, provided that the disturbed area is restored to pre-
construction topographic and hydrologic conditions immediately after
construction is complete and replanted immediately with comparable vegetation,
except that tree planting may occur during the dormant season. A one-time
application of fertilizer may be used to establish vegetation: At the end of
five years the restored buffer shall comply with the restoration criteria in
subsection (h)(3)(vii) of this section:
• Less than or equal to 2,500 square feet of buffer disturbance              X
• Greater than 2,500 square feet of buffer disturbance                               X
• Associated with culvert installation or bridge construction or replacement.        X
Temporary sediment and erosion control devices, provided that the disturbed
area is restored to pre-construction topographic and hydrologic conditions
immediately after construction is complete and replanted immediately with
comparable vegetation, except that tree planting may occur during the dormant
season. A one-time application of fertilizer may be used to establish
vegetation. At the end of five years the restored buffer shall comply with the
restoration criteria in subsection (h)(3)(vii) of this section:
• In Zone Two provided ground cover is established within timeframes required
by the Sedimentation and Erosion Control Act, vegetation in Zone One is not    X
compromised, and runoff is released as diffuse flow in accordance with
subsection (f)(5) of this section.
• In Zones one and two to control impacts associated with uses approved by
Johnston County or that have received a variance, provided that sediment and           X
erosion control for upland areas is addressed, to the maximum extent
practical, outside the buffer.
• In-stream temporary erosion and sediment control measures for work within a
stream channel that is authorized under Sections 401 and 404 of the Federal    X
Water Pollution Control Act.
• In-stream temporary erosion and sediment control measures for work within a        X
stream channel.
Utility, electric, aerial, perpendicular crossings of streams and other
surface waters subject to this section2,3,5:
• Disturb equal to or less than 150 linear feet of riparian buffer           X
• Disturb greater than 150 linear feet of riparian buffer                            X
Utility, electric, aerial, other than perpendicular crossings5:
• Impacts in Zone Two                                                                X
• Impacts in Zone One2,3                                                                        X
Utility, electric, underground, perpendicular crossings3,4,5:
• Disturb less than or equal to 40 linear feet of riparian buffer            X
• Disturb greater than 40 linear feet of riparian buffer                             X
Utility, electric, underground, other than perpendicular crossings4:
• Impacts in Zone Two                                                        X
• Impacts in Zone One1                                                       X
Utility, non-electric, perpendicular crossings of streams and other surface
waters subject to this section3,5:
• Disturb equal to or less than 40 linear feet of riparian buffer with a     X
maintenance corridor equal to or less than 10 feet in width
• Disturb equal to or less than 40 linear feet of riparian buffer with a             X
maintenance corridor greater than 10 feet in width
• Disturb greater than 40 linear feet but equal to or less than 150 linear
feet of riparian buffer with a maintenance corridor equal to or less than 10           X
feet in width
• Disturb greater than 40 linear feet but equal to or less than 150 linear
feet of riparian buffer with a maintenance corridor greater than 10 feet in                       X
width
• Disturb greater than 150 linear feet of riparian buffer                                       X
Utility, non-electric, other than perpendicular crossings4.5:
• Impacts in Zone Two                                                                X
• Impacts in Zone One1                                                                          X
Vegetation management:
• Emergency fire control measures provided that topography is restored       X
• Mowing or harvesting of plant products in Zone Two                         X
• Planting vegetation to enhance the riparian buffer                         X
• Pruning forest vegetation provided that the health and function of the     X
forest vegetation is not compromised
• Removal of individual trees that are in danger of causing damage to        X
dwellings, other structures or human life
• Removal of poison ivy                                                      X
• Removal of invasive exotic vegetation as defined in: Smith, Cherri L. 1998.
Exotic Plant Guidelines. Dept. of Environment and Natural Resources. Division  X
of Parks and Recreation. Raleigh, NC. Guideline #30
• Vehicular access roads leading to water-dependent structures as defined in
15A NCAC 02B .0202, provided they do not cross the surface water and have              X
minimum practicable width not exceeding ten feet.
• Water dependent structures as defined in 15A NCAC 02B .0202 where                  X
installation and use result in disturbance to riparian buffers.
Water supply reservoirs:
• New reservoirs where a riparian buffer that meets the requirements of
subsections (f)(4) and (f)(5) of this section is established adjacent to the           X
reservoir
• New reservoirs where a riparian buffer that meets the requirements of
subsections (f)(4) and (f)(5) of this section is not established adjacent to                      X
the reservoir
Water wells                                                                    X
Wetland restoration                                                            X
Wildlife passage structures                                                            X
1 Provided that:
•   No heavy equipment is used in Zone One.
•   Vegetation in undisturbed portions of the buffer is not compromised.
•   Felled trees are removed by chain.
•   No permanent felling of trees occurs in protected buffers or streams.
•   Stumps are removed only by grinding.
•   At the completion of the project the disturbed area is stabilized with native vegetation.
•   Zones one and two meet the requirements of subsections (f)(4) and (f)(5)
2 Provided that, in Zone One, all of the following BMPs for overhead utility lines are used. If all of these
BMPs are not used, then the overhead utility lines shall require a no practical alternative evaluation by
Johnston County as defined in subsection (h)(1).
•   A minimum zone of 10 feet wide immediately adjacent to the water body shall be managed such that only
vegetation that poses a hazard or has the potential to grow tall enough to interfere with the line is
removed.
•   Woody vegetation shall be cleared by hand. No land grubbing or grading is allowed.
•   Vegetative root systems shall be left intact to maintain the integrity of the soil. Stumps shall remain
where trees are cut.
•   Riprap shall not be used unless it is necessary to stabilize a tower.
•   No fertilizer shall be used other than a one-time application to re-establish vegetation.
•   Construction activities shall minimize the removal of woody vegetation, the extent of the disturbed area,
and the time in which areas remain in a disturbed state.
•   Active measures shall be taken after construction and during routine maintenance to ensure diffuse flow
of stormwater through the buffer.
•   In wetlands, mats shall be utilized to minimize soil disturbance.
3 Provided that poles or aerial infrastructure shall not be installed within 10 feet of a water body unless
Johnston County completes a no practical alternative evaluation as defined in subsection (h)(1).
4 Provided that, in Zone One, all of the following BMPs for underground utility lines are used. If all of
these BMPs are not used, then the underground utility line shall require a no practical alternative
evaluation by Johnston County, as defined in subsection (h)(1).
•   Woody vegetation shall be cleared by hand. No land grubbing or grading is allowed.
•   Vegetative root systems shall be left intact to maintain the integrity of the soil. Stumps shall remain,
except in the trench where trees are cut.
•   Underground cables shall be installed by vibratory plow or trenching.
•   The trench shall be backfilled with the excavated soil material immediately following cable installation.
•   No fertilizer shall be used other than a one-time application to re-establish vegetation.
•   Construction activities shall minimize the removal of woody vegetation, the extent of the disturbed area,
and the time in which areas remain in a disturbed state.
•   Measures shall be taken upon completion of construction and during routine maintenance to ensure diffuse
flow of stormwater through the buffer.
•   In wetlands, mats shall be utilized to minimize soil disturbance.
5 Perpendicular crossings are those that intersect the surface water at an angle between 75 degrees and 105
degrees.
 
      (3)   Requirements for categories of uses. Uses designated in subsection
(g)(2) of this section as exempt, allowable, and allowable with mitigation
within a riparian buffer shall have the following requirements:
         i.   Exempt. Uses designated as exempt are permissible without
authorization by Johnston County provided that they adhere to the limitations
of the activity as defined in subsection (g)(2) of this section, the Table of
Uses. Exempt uses shall be designed, constructed and maintained to minimize
soil disturbance and to provide the maximum water quality protection
practicable, including construction, monitoring, and maintenance activities. In
addition, exempt uses shall meet the requirements listed in subsection (f)(5)
of this section.
         ii.   Allowable. Uses designated as allowable may proceed provided
that there are no practical alternatives to the requested use pursuant to
subsection (h)(1) of this section. This includes construction, monitoring, and
maintenance activities. These uses require written authorization from the
Johnston County environmental and stormwater manager.
         iii.   Allowable with mitigation. Uses designated as allowable with
mitigation may proceed provided that there are no practical alternatives to the
requested use pursuant to subsection (h)(1) of this section and an appropriate
mitigation strategy has been approved pursuant to subsection (h)(3). These uses
require written authorization from the Johnston County environmental and
stormwater manager.
         iv.   Uses that are not listed may not proceed within the riparian
buffer unless a variance is granted pursuant to subsection (h)(2) of this
section. Mitigation may be required as one condition of a variance approval.
   (h)    Permits procedures, requirements, and approvals.
      (1)   Determination of no practical alternatives / request for
authorization certificate.
         i.   Persons who wish to undertake uses designated as allowable or
allowable with mitigation shall submit a request for a "no practical
alternatives" determination to Johnston County. The applicant shall certify
that the project meets all the following criteria for finding "no practical
alternatives":
            a.   The basic project purpose cannot be practically accomplished
in a manner that would better minimize disturbance, preserve aquatic life and
habitat, and protect water quality;
            b.   The use cannot practically be reduced in size or density,
reconfigured or redesigned to better minimize disturbance, preserve aquatic
life and habitat, and protect water quality; and
            c.   Best management practices shall be used if necessary to
minimize disturbance, preserve aquatic life and habitat, and protect water
quality.
         ii.   The applicant shall also submit at least the following
information in support of their assertion of "no practical alternatives":
            a.   The name, address and phone number of the applicant;
            b.   The nature of the activity to be conducted by the applicant;
            c.   The location of the activity, including the jurisdiction;
            d.   A map of sufficient detail to accurately delineate the
boundaries of the land to be utilized in carrying out the activity, the
location and dimensions of any disturbance in riparian buffers associated with
the activity, and the extent of riparian buffers on the land;
            e.   An explanation of why this plan for the activity cannot be
practically accomplished, reduced or reconfigured to better minimize
disturbance to the riparian buffer, preserve aquatic life and habitat and
protect water quality; and
            f.   Plans for any best management practices proposed to be used to
control the impacts associated with the activity.
         iii.   Within 60 days of a submission that addresses subsection (h)(1)
(ii), Johnston County shall review the entire project and make a finding of
fact as to whether the criteria in subsection (h)(1)(i) of this section have
been met. A finding of "no practical alternatives" shall result in issuance of
an Authorization Certificate. Failure to act within 60 days shall be construed
as a finding of "no practical alternatives" and an Authorization Certificate
shall be issued to the applicant unless one of the following occurs:
            a.   The applicant agrees, in writing, to a longer period;
            b.   Johnston County determines that the applicant has failed to
furnish requested information necessary for the county decision;
            c.   The final decision is to be made pursuant to a public hearing;
or
            d.   The applicant refuses access to its records or premises for
the purpose of gathering information necessary to Johnston County's decision.
         iv.   Johnston County may attach conditions to the Authorization
Certificate that support the purpose, spirit and intent of this section.
         v.   Any appeals of determinations regarding Authorization
Certificates shall be referred to the Director of the Division of Water
Resources, c/o the 401 & Buffer Permitting Unit, or its successor. The
director's decision is subject to review as provided in G.S. ch. 150B, art. 3
and 4.
      (2)   Variances.
         i.   Requirements for variances. Persons who wish to undertake uses
not listed in the Table of Uses may pursue a variance. Johnston County may
grant minor variances. For major variances, Johnston County shall prepare
preliminary findings and submit them to the Environmental Management Commission
for approval. The variance request procedure shall be as follows:
            a.   For any variance request, the Johnston County environmental
and stormwater manager shall make a finding of fact as to whether there are
practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships that prevent compliance with
the riparian buffer protection requirements. A finding of practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardships shall require that the following
conditions are met:
               i.   If the applicant complies with the provisions of this
section, he/she can secure no reasonable return from, nor make reasonable use
of, his/her property. Merely proving that the variance would permit a greater
profit from the property shall not be considered adequate justification for a
variance. Moreover, the Johnston County environmental and stormwater manager
shall consider whether the variance is the minimum possible deviation from the
terms of this section that shall make reasonable use of the property possible;
               ii.   The hardship results from application of this section to
the property rather than from other factors such as deed restrictions or other
hardship;
               iii.   The hardship is due to the physical nature of the
applicant's property, such as its size, shape, or topography, such that
compliance with provisions of this section would not allow reasonable use of
the property;
               iv.   The applicant did not cause the hardship by knowingly or
unknowingly violating this section;
               v.   The applicant did not purchase the property after the
effective date of this section, and then request a variance; and
               vi.   The hardship is rare or unique to the applicant's
property.
            b.   The variance is in harmony with the general purpose and intent
of the state's riparian buffer protection requirements and this section and
preserves its spirit; and
            c.   In granting the variance, the public safety and welfare have
been assured, water quality has been protected, and substantial justice has
been done.
         ii.   Minor variances. A minor variance request pertains to activities
that will impact only Zone Two of the riparian buffer. Minor variance requests
shall be reviewed and approved based on the criteria in subsection (h)(1)(i)
through subsection (h)(1)(iii) by the Johnston County environmental and
stormwater manager pursuant to G.S. ch. 153A, art. 18, or G.S. ch. 160A, art.
19. Johnston County may attach conditions to the variance approval that support
the purpose, spirit and intent of the riparian buffer protection program.
Request for appeals to decisions made by Johnston County shall be made in
writing to the Director of the Division of Water Resources c/o the 401 & Buffer
Permitting Unit, or its successor. The director's decision is subject to review
as provided in G.S. ch. 150B, art. 3 and 4.
         iii.   Major variances. A major variance request pertains to
activities that will impact any portion of Zone One or any portion of both
Zones One and Two of the riparian buffer. If the Johnston County environmental
and stormwater manager has determined that a major variance request meets the
requirements in subsection (h)(1)(i) through subsection (h)(1)(iii), then the
environmental and stormwater manager shall prepare a preliminary finding and
submit it to the NC Environmental Management Commission for approval. Within 90
days after receipt from Johnston County, the commission shall review
preliminary findings on major variance requests and take one of the following
actions: approve, approve with conditions and stipulations, or deny the
request. Appeals from a commission decision on a major variance request are
made on judicial review to the Office of Administrative Hearings under G.S.
153A-345.
      (3)   Mitigation.
         i.   This item shall apply to persons who wish to impact a riparian
buffer in the Neuse River watershed when one of the following applies:
            a.   A person has received an Authorization Certificate pursuant to
subsection (h)(1) of this section for a proposed use that is designated as
"allowable with mitigation;" or
            b.   A person has received a variance pursuant to subsection (h)(2)
of this section and is required to perform mitigation as a condition of a
variance approval.
         ii.   Issuance of the mitigation approval. Johnston County shall issue
a mitigation approval upon determining that a proposal meets the requirements
set out in this section. The approval shall identify at a minimum the option
chosen, the required and proposed areas, and either the mitigation location or
the offset payment amount as applicable.
         iii.   Options for meeting the mitigation requirement. The mitigation
requirement may be met through one of the following options:
            a.   Payment of a compensatory mitigation fee to the Riparian
Buffer Restoration Fund pursuant to 15A NCAC 02B .0242 (Mitigation Program for
Protection and Maintenance of Existing Riparian Buffers) contingent upon
acceptance of payments by the NC Ecosystem Enhancement Program, or to a private
mitigation bank that complies with banking requirements of the US Army Corps of
Engineers, currently set out at http://www.saw.usace.army.mil/WETLANDS/
Mitigation/mitbanks.html or from the US Army Corps of Engineers, P.O. Box 1890,
Wilmington, NC, 28402-1890, and the applicable trading criteria in Rule 15A
NCAC 02B .0273;
            b.   Donation of real property or of an interest in real property
pursuant to subsection (h)(3)(vi) of this section; or
            c.   Restoration or enhancement of a non-forested riparian buffer
pursuant to the requirements of subsection (h)(3)(vii) of this section.
         iv.   The area of mitigation. Johnston County shall determine the
required area of mitigation, which shall apply to all mitigation options
identified in subsection (h)(3)(iii) of this section and as further specified
in the requirements for each option set out in this section, according to the
following:
            a.   The impacts in square feet to each zone of the riparian buffer
shall be determined by Johnston County by adding the following:
               i.   The area of the footprint of the use causing the impact to
the riparian buffer;
               ii.   The area of the boundary of any clearing and grading
activities within the riparian buffer necessary to accommodate the use; and
               iii.   The area of any ongoing maintenance corridors within the
riparian buffer associated with the use.
            b.   The required area of mitigation shall be determined by
applying the following multipliers to the impacts determined in subsection (h)
(3)(iv)(a) of this section to each zone of the riparian buffer:
               i.   Impacts to Zone One of the riparian buffer shall be
multiplied by three;
               ii.   Impacts to Zone Two of the riparian buffer shall be
multiplied by one and one-half; and
               iii.   Impacts to wetlands within Zones One and Two of the
riparian buffer that are subject to mitigation under 15A NCAC 2H .0506 shall
comply with the mitigation ratios in 15A NCAC 2H .0506.
         v.   The location of mitigation. For any option chosen, the mitigation
effort shall be the same distance from the Neuse River estuary as the proposed
impact, or closer to the estuary than the impact, and as close to the location
of the impact as feasible.
         vi.   Donation of property. Persons who choose to satisfy their
mitigation determination by donating real property or an interest in real
property shall meet the following requirements:
            a.   The donation of real property interests may be used to either
partially or fully satisfy the payment of a compensatory mitigation fee to the
Riparian Buffer Restoration Fund pursuant to 15A NCAC 02B .0273. The value of
the property interest shall be determined by an appraisal performed in
accordance with subsection (h)(3)(vi)(d)(iv) of this section. The donation
shall satisfy the mitigation determination if the appraised value of the
donated property interest is equal to or greater than the required fee. If the
appraised value of the donated property interest is less than the required fee
calculated pursuant to 15A NCAC 02B .0273, the applicant shall pay the
remaining balance due.
            b.   The donation of conservation easements to satisfy compensatory
mitigation requirements shall be accepted only if the conservation easement is
granted in perpetuity.
            c.   Donation of real property interests to satisfy the mitigation
determination shall be accepted only if such property meets all of the
following requirements:
               i.   In addition to the location requirements of subsection (h)
(3)(v) of this section, the property shall be located within an area that is
identified as a priority for restoration in, or is otherwise consistent with
the goals of, the Basinwide Wetlands and Riparian Restoration Plan developed by
NC Division of Water Resources pursuant to G.S. 143-214.10; or shall be located
at a site that is otherwise consistent with the goals outlined in the Basinwide
Wetlands and Riparian Restoration Plan.
               ii.   The property shall contain riparian buffers not currently
protected by the state's riparian buffer protection program that are in need of
restoration as defined in subsection (h)(3)(vii)(d) of this section;
               iii.   The restorable riparian buffer on the property shall have
a minimum length of 1000 linear feet along a surface water and a minimum width
of 50 feet as measured horizontally on a line perpendicular to the surface
water;
               iv.   The size of the restorable riparian buffer on the property
to be donated shall equal or exceed the area of mitigation responsibility
determined pursuant to subsection (h)(3)(iv) of this section;
               v.   Restoration shall not require removal of man-made
structures or infrastructure;
               vi.   The property shall be suitable to be successfully
restored, based on existing hydrology, soils, and vegetation;
               vii.   The estimated cost of restoring and maintaining the
property shall not exceed the value of the property minus site identification
and transaction costs;
               viii.   The property shall not contain any building, structure,
object, site, or district that is listed in the National Register of Historic
Places established pursuant to Public Law 89-665, 16 U.S.C. 470 as amended;
               ix.   The property shall not contain any hazardous substance or
solid waste;
               x.   The property shall not contain structures or materials that
present health or safety problems to the general public. If wells, septic,
water or sewer connections exist, they shall be filled, remediated or closed at
owner's expense in accordance with state and local health and safety
regulations;
               xi.   The property and adjacent properties shall not have prior,
current, and known future land use that would inhibit the function of the
restoration effort; and
               xii.   The property shall not have any encumbrances or
conditions on the transfer of the property interests.
            d.   At the expense of the applicant or donor, the following
information shall be submitted to the Johnston County environmental and
stormwater manager with any proposal for donations or dedications of interest
in real property:
               i.   Documentation that the property meets the requirements laid
out in subsection (h)(3)(vi)(c) of this section;
               ii.   US Geological Survey 1:24,000 (7.5 minute) scale
topographic map, county tax map, USDA Natural Resource Conservation Service
County Soil Survey Map, and county road map showing the location of the
property to be donated along with information on existing site conditions,
vegetation types, presence of existing structures and easements;
               iii.   A current property survey performed in accordance with
the procedures of the North Carolina Department of Administration, State
Property Office as identified by the State Board of Registration for
Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors in "Standards of Practice for Land
Surveying in North Carolina." Copies may be obtained from the North Carolina
State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors, 3620
Six Forks Road, Suite 300, Raleigh, North Carolina 27609;
               iv.   A current appraisal of the value of the property performed
in accordance with the procedures of the North Carolina Department of
Administration, State Property Office as identified by the Appraisal Board in
the "Uniform Standards of Professional North Carolina Appraisal Practice."
Copies may be obtained from the Appraisal Foundation, Publications Department,
P.O. Box 96734, Washington, D.C. 20090-6734; and
               v.   A title certificate.
         vii.   Riparian buffer restoration or enhancement. Persons who choose
to meet their mitigation requirement through riparian buffer restoration or
enhancement shall meet the following requirements:
            a.   The applicant may restore or enhance a non-forested riparian
buffer if either of the following applies:
               i.   The area of riparian buffer restoration is equal to the
required area of mitigation determined pursuant to subsection (h)(3)(iv) of
this section; or
               ii.   The area of riparian buffer enhancement is three times
larger than the required area of mitigation determined pursuant to subsection
(h)(3)(iv) of this section;
            b.   The location of the riparian buffer restoration or enhancement
shall comply with the requirements in subsection (h)(3)(v) of this section;
            c.   The riparian buffer restoration or enhancement site shall have
a minimum width of 50 feet as measured horizontally on a line perpendicular to
the surface water;
            d.   The applicant shall first receive an Authorization Certificate
for the proposed use according to the requirements of subsection (h)(1) of this
section. After receiving this determination, the applicant shall submit a
restoration or enhancement plan for approval by Johnston County. The
restoration or enhancement plan shall contain the following:
               i.   A map of the proposed restoration or enhancement site;
               ii.   A vegetation plan. The vegetation plan shall include a
minimum of at least two native hardwood tree species planted at a density
sufficient to provide 320 trees per acre at maturity;
               iii.   A grading plan. The site shall be graded in a manner to
ensure diffuse flow through the riparian buffer;
               iv.   A fertilization plan; and
               v.   A schedule for implementation;
            e.   Within one year after Johnston County has approved the
restoration or enhancement plan, the applicant shall present proof to the
County that the riparian buffer has been restored or enhanced. If proof is not
presented within this timeframe, then the person shall be in violation of both
the state's and the county's riparian buffer protection program;
            f.   The mitigation area shall be placed under a perpetual
conservation easement that will provide for protection of the property's
nutrient removal functions; and
            g.   The applicant shall submit annual reports for a period of five
years after the restoration or enhancement showing that the trees planted have
survived and that diffuse flow through the riparian buffer has been maintained.
The applicant shall replace trees that do not survive and restore diffuse flow
if needed during that five-year period.
      (4)   Requirements Specific to Forest Harvesting.  The following
requirements shall apply for forest harvesting operations and practices.
         i.   The following measures shall apply in the entire riparian buffer:
            a.   Logging decks and sawmill sites shall not be placed in the
riparian buffer.
            b.   Access roads and skid trails shall be prohibited except for
temporary and permanent stream crossings established in accordance with 15A
NCAC 1I .0203. Temporary stream crossings shall be permanently stabilized after
any site disturbing activity is completed.
            c.   Timber felling shall be directed away from the stream or water
body.
            d.   Skidding shall be directed away from the stream or water body
and shall be done in a manner that minimizes soil disturbance and prevents the
creation of channels or ruts.
            e.   Individual trees may be treated to maintain or improve their
health, form or vigor.
            f.   Harvesting of dead or infected trees or application of
pesticides necessary to prevent or control extensive tree pest and disease
infestation shall be allowed. These practices must be approved by the Division
of Forest Resources for a specific site. The Division of Forest Resources must
notify the Division of all approvals.
            g.   Removal of individual trees that are in danger of causing
damage to structures or human life shall be allowed.
            h.   Natural regeneration of forest vegetation and planting of
trees, shrubs, or ground cover plants to enhance the riparian buffer shall be
allowed provided that soil disturbance is minimized. Plantings shall consist
primarily of native species.
            i.   High intensity prescribed burns shall not be allowed.
            j.   Application of fertilizer shall not be allowed except as
necessary for permanent stabilization. Broadcast application of fertilizer or
herbicides to the adjacent forest stand shall be conducted so that the
chemicals are not applied directly to or allowed to drift into the riparian
buffer.
         ii.   In Zone 1, forest vegetation shall be protected and maintained.
Selective harvest as provided for below is allowed on forest lands that have a
deferment for use value under forestry in accordance with G.S. 105-277.2
through G.S. 105-277.6 or on forest lands that have a forest management plan
prepared or approved by a registered professional forester. Copies of either
the approval of the deferment for use value under forestry or the forest
management plan shall be produced upon request. For such forest lands,
selective harvest is allowed in accordance with the following:
            a.   Tracked or wheeled vehicles are not permitted except at stream
crossings designed, constructed and maintained in accordance with 15A NCAC 1I
.0203.
            b.   Soil disturbing site preparation activities are not allowed.
            c.   Trees shall be removed with the minimum disturbance to the
soil and residual vegetation.
            d.   The following provisions for selective harvesting shall be
met:
               i.   The first 10 feet of Zone 1 directly adjacent to the stream
or waterbody shall be undisturbed except for the removal of individual high
value trees as defined provided that no trees with exposed primary roots
visible in the streambank be cut.
               ii.   In the outer 20 feet of Zone 1, a maximum of 50 percent of
the trees greater than five inches DBH may be cut and removed. The reentry time
for harvest shall be no more frequent than every 15 years, except on forest
plantations where the reentry time shall be no more frequent than every five
years. In either case, the trees remaining after harvest shall be as evenly
spaced as possible.
               iii.   In Zone 2, harvesting and regeneration of the forest
stand shall be allowed provided that sufficient ground cover is maintained to
provide for diffusion and infiltration of surface runoff.
   (i)   Compliance and enforcement.
      (1)   Site inspections.
         i.   Agents, officials, or other qualified persons authorized by
Johnston County may periodically inspect riparian buffers to ensure compliance
with this section.
         ii.   Notice of the right to inspect shall be included in the letter
of approval of each variance and buffer authorization.
         iii.   Authority to enter property and conduct investigations and
inspections. Authorized agents, officials or other qualified persons shall have
the authority, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter and inspect at
reasonable times any property, public or private, for the purpose of
investigating and inspecting the site of any riparian buffer. No person shall
willfully resist, delay, or obstruct an authorized representative, employee, or
agent of Johnston County, while that person is inspecting or attempting to
inspect a riparian buffer nor shall any person obstruct, hamper or interfere
with any such representative while in the process of carrying out their
official duties. The county shall have the power to conduct such investigations
as deemed reasonably necessary to carry out the duties as prescribed in this
section.
         iv.   Notice of violation.
            a.   If it is determined that a person has failed to comply with
the requirements of this section, or rules, or orders adopted or issued
pursuant to this section, a notice of violation shall be served upon that
person. The notice may be served by any means authorized under G.S. 1A-1, rule
4.
            b.   The notice shall specify the violation and inform the person
of the actions that need to be taken to comply with this section, or rules or
orders adopted pursuant to this section. The notice shall direct the person to
correct the violation within a specified reasonable time. The notice shall
inform the person that any person who violates or fails to act in accordance
with any of the provisions of this section or rules or orders adopted or issued
pursuant to this section is subject to the civil and criminal penalties and
other enforcement actions as provided in this section.
         v.   Power to require statements. Johnston County shall also have the
power to require written statements, or the filing of reports under oath, with
respect to pertinent questions relating to land-disturbing activities.
      (2)   Civil penalties.
         i.   Assessment of penalties. Any person who violates or fails to act
in accordance with any of the provisions of this section or rules or orders
adopted or issued pursuant to this section shall be subject to a civil penalty.
A civil penalty for a violation may be assessed in an amount not to exceed ten
thousand dollars ($10,000) per day. If any violation for which a penalty may be
assessed is continuous, a civil penalty may be assessed for each day of the
violation in an amount not to exceed twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) per
day for as long as the violation occurs. Each day of a continuing violation
shall constitute a separate violation under subsection (i)(2)(i).
         ii.   Notice of civil penalty assessment. The Johnston County
environmental and stormwater manager shall provide written notice of the civil
penalty amount and the basis for the assessment to the person assessed. The
notice of civil penalty assessment shall be served by any means authorized
under G.S. 1A-1, Rule 4, and shall direct the violator to either pay the
assessment or contest the assessment, within 30 days after receipt of the
notice of assessment by written demand for a hearing.
         iii.   Hearing. A hearing on the civil penalty shall be conducted by
Johnston County board of adjustment in accordance with the Johnston County Code
of Ordinance Section
14-594(b)(c).
         iv.   Final decision. The planning director shall notify the applicant
of the board's decision in writing and shall file a copy of it with the
County's planning department and with the Johnston County environmental and
stormwater manager.
         v.   Appeal of final decision. A decision of the board of adjustment
on an application for appeal may be appealed to the superior court by an
aggrieved party. Such appeal shall be in the nature of certiorari and must be
filed within 30 days of the filing of the decision in the office of the
planning department.
         vi.   Demand for payment of penalty. An assessment that is not
contested is due when the violator is served with a notice of assessment. The
civil penalty must be paid within 30 days of the assessment, if not appealed,
or within 30 days after the conclusion of the administrative or judicial review
of the assessment. If payment is not received within 30 days after demand for
payment is made, Johnston County may institute a civil action to recover the
amount of the assessment. The civil action may be brought in the Superior Court
where the violation occurred, or the violator's residence or principal place of
business is located. Such civil actions must be filed within three years of the
date the assessment was due.
         vii.   Use of penalties. Civil penalties collected pursuant to this
section shall be credited to the general fund of the Johnston County as nontax
revenue.
      (3)   Criminal penalties.  
         i.   Any person who negligently violates any provision of this section
or rule or order adopted pursuant to this section, shall be guilty of a Class 2
misdemeanor which may include a fine not to exceed fifteen thousand dollars
($15,000) per day of violation, provided that such fine shall not exceed a
cumulative total of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) for each period of
30 days during which such a violation continues.
         ii.   Any person who knowingly or willingly violates any provision of
this section or rule or order adopted pursuant to this section, shall be guilty
of a Class I felony which may include a fine not to exceed one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000) per day of violation, provided that this fine shall not
exceed a cumulative total of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) for each
period of 30 days during which such a violation continues.
         iii.   Any person who maliciously violates any provision of this
section or rule or order adopted pursuant to this section, shall be guilty of a
Class C felony which may include a fine not to exceed two hundred fifty
thousand dollars ($250,000) per day of violation, provided that this fine shall
not exceed a cumulative total of one million dollars ($1,000,0000) for each
period of 30 days during which such a violation continues.
      (4)   Injunctive relief.
         i.   Civil action in Superior Court. Whenever the governing body of
Johnston County has reasonable cause to believe that any person is violating or
threatening to violate this section or any rule or order adopted or issued
pursuant to this section, it may, either before or after the institution of any
other action or proceeding authorized by this section, institute a civil action
in the name of the County for injunctive relief to restrain the violation or
threatened violation. The action shall be brought in the Superior Court of
Johnston County.
         ii.   Order to cease violation. Upon determination by a court that an
alleged violation is occurring or is threatened, the court shall enter any
order or judgment that is necessary to abate the violation, to ensure that
restoration is performed, or to prevent the threatened violation. The
institution of an action for injunctive relief under this section shall not
relieve any party to the proceedings from any civil or criminal penalty
prescribed for violations of this section.
      (5)   Compliance with requirements. Any person engaged in new activities
as defined by this section who fails to meet the requirements of this section
shall be deemed in violation of this section.
   (j)   Severability. If any one or more sections or portions of this section
are held to be invalid or unenforceable, all other sections and portions
thereof shall nevertheless continue in full force and effect.
   (k)   Effective date. This section will become effective upon approval by
the NC Environmental Management Commission and adoption by the Johnston County
Board of Commissioners.
   (l)   Revisions to this section. Johnston County shall review any revisions
to the Model Local Riparian Buffer Protection Ordinance made by the
environmental management commission and, within 60 days of receipt of the
recommended revisions, submit draft amendments to the commission for its
consideration and comments. Within 90 days after receipt of the commissions'
comments, Johnston County will incorporate amendments into this section.
   (m)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, these terms shall be
defined as follows:
      Access trails means pedestrian trails constructed of pervious or
impervious surfaces and related structures to access a surface water, including
boardwalks, steps, rails, and signage.
      Airport facilities means all properties, facilities, buildings,
structures, and activities that satisfy or otherwise fall within the scope of
one or more of the definitions or uses of the words or phrases 'air navigation
facility', 'airport', or 'airport protection privileges' under G.S. 63-1; the
definition of 'aeronautical facilities' in G.S. 63-79(1); the phrase 'airport
facilities' as used in G.S. 159-48(b)(1); the phrase 'aeronautical facilities'
as defined in G.S. 159-81 and G.S. 159-97; and the phrase 'airport facilities
and improvements' as used in Article V, Section 13, of the North Carolina
Constitution, which shall include, without limitation, any and all of the
following: airports, airport maintenance facilities, clear zones, drainage
ditches, fields, hangars, landing lighting, airport and airport-related
offices, parking facilities, related navigational and signal systems, runways,
stormwater outfalls, terminals, terminal shops, and all appurtenant areas used
or suitable for airport buildings or other airport facilities, and all
appurtenant rights-of-way; restricted landing areas; any structures,
mechanisms, lights, beacons, marks, communicating systems, or other
instrumentalities or devices used or useful as an aid, or constituting an
advantage or convenience to the safe taking off, navigation, and landing of
aircraft, or the safe and efficient operation or maintenance of an airport or
restricted landing area; easements through, or interests in, air space over
land or water, interests in airport hazards outside the boundaries of airports
or restricted landing areas, and other protection privileges, the acquisition
or control of which is necessary to ensure safe approaches to the landing areas
of airports and restricted landing areas, and the safe and efficient operation
thereof and any combination of any or all of such facilities. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the following shall not be included in the definition of
'airport facilities':
         i.   Satellite parking facilities;
         ii.   Retail and commercial development outside of the terminal area,
such as rental car facilities; and
         iii.   Other secondary development, such as hotels, industrial
facilities, free-standing offices and other similar buildings, so long as these
facilities are not directly associated with the operation of the airport, and
are not operated by a unit of government or special governmental entity such as
an airport authority, in which case they are included in the definition of
'airport facilities'.
      Channel means a natural water-carrying trough cut vertically into low
areas of the land surface by erosive action of concentrated flowing water or a
ditch or canal excavated for the flow of water.
      DBH means diameter at breast height of a tree measured at 4.5 feet above
ground surface level.
      Development means the same as defined in Rule 15A NCAC 2B .0202(23).
      Ditch or canal means a man-made channel other than a modified natural
stream constructed for drainage purposes that is typically dug through inter-
stream divide areas. A ditch or canal may have flows that are perennial,
intermittent, or ephemeral and may exhibit hydrological and biological
characteristics similar to perennial or intermittent streams.
      Environmental and stormwater manager means the personnel within the
Johnston County public utilities department who has successfully completed the
Division’s Surface Water Identification Training Certification course, its
successor, or other equivalent training curriculum approved by the division,
and whose job responsibility includes the administration and enforcement of the
Johnston County Riparian Buffer Protection Ordinance.
      Ephemeral stream means a feature that carries only stormwater in direct
response to precipitation with water flowing only during and shortly after
large precipitation events. An ephemeral stream may or may not have a well-
defined channel, the aquatic bed is always above the water table, and
stormwater runoff is the primary source of water. An ephemeral stream typically
lacks the biological, hydrological, and physical characteristics commonly
associated with the continuous or intermittent conveyance of water.
      Greenway / hiking trails means pedestrian trails constructed of pervious
or impervious surfaces and related structures including but not limited to
boardwalks, steps, rails, and signage, and that generally run parallel to the
shoreline.
      High value tree means a tree that meets or exceeds the following
standards: for pine species, 14-inch DBH or greater or 18-inch or greater stump
diameter; or for hardwoods and wetland species, 16-inch DBH or greater or 24-
inch or greater stump diameter.
      Intermittent stream means a well-defined channel that contains water for
only part of the year, typically during winter and spring when the aquatic bed
is below the water table. The flow may be heavily supplemented by stormwater
runoff. An intermittent stream often lacks the biological and hydrological
characteristics commonly associated with the continuous conveyance of water.
      Perennial stream means a well-defined channel that contains water year
round during a year of normal rainfall with the aquatic bed located below the
water table for most of the year. Groundwater is the primary source of water
for a perennial stream, but it also carries stormwater runoff. A perennial
stream exhibits the typical biological, hydrological, and physical
characteristics commonly associated with the continuous conveyance of water.
      Perennial waterbody means a natural or man-made basin, including lakes,
ponds, and reservoirs, that stores surface water permanently at depths
sufficient to preclude growth of rooted plants. For the purpose of the state's
riparian buffer protection program, the waterbody must be part of a natural
drainage way (i.e., connected by surface flow to a stream).
      Shoreline stabilization is the in-place stabilization of an eroding
shoreline. Stabilization techniques which include "soft" methods or natural
materials (such as root wads, or rock vanes) may be considered as part of a
restoration design. However, stabilization techniques that consist primarily of
"hard" engineering, such as concrete lined channels, riprap, or gabions, while
providing bank stabilization, shall not be considered stream restoration.
      Stream means a body of concentrated flowing water in a natural low area
or natural channel on the land surface.
      Stream restoration is defined as the process of converting an unstable,
altered or degraded stream corridor, including adjacent riparian zone and
flood-prone areas to its natural or referenced, stable conditions considering
recent and future watershed conditions. This process also includes restoring
the geomorphic dimension, pattern, and profile as well as biological and
chemical integrity, including transport of water and sediment produced by the
stream's watershed in order to achieve dynamic equilibrium. Referenced or
referenced reach means a stable stream that is in dynamic equilibrium with its
valley and contributing watershed. A reference reach can be used to develop
natural channel design criteria for stream restoration projects.
      Stump diameter means the diameter of a tree measured at six inches above
the ground surface level.
      Surface waters means all waters of the state as defined in G.S. 143-212
except underground waters.
      Temporary road means a road constructed temporarily for equipment access
to build or replace hydraulic conveyance structures such as bridges, culverts,
pipes or water dependent structures, or to maintain public traffic during
construction.
      Tree means a woody plant with a DBH equal to or exceeding five inches or
a stump diameter exceeding six inches.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, §§ 9.7, 9.8; Ord. of 1-2-2001, § 9.10; Ord. of 5-6-2013;
Ord. of 1-6-2014)
Sec. 14-394. - Right to enter.
   Any county personnel, or contractors for the county, shall be permitted to
enter upon public or private property for the purposes of inspection, sampling,
monitoring, testing or otherwise verifying compliance. Should the county
personnel, or contractor for the county, be denied reasonable access to any
property, the stormwater administrator shall obtain an administrative search
warrant. No person shall obstruct, hamper or interfere with any such
representative while carrying out his official duties.
(Ord. of 1-2-2001, § 9.11)
Sec. 14-395. - Variances.
   The board of adjustment shall consider all variance requests as set out in
article XI of this chapter.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 9.10; Ord. of 1-2-2001, § 9.12)
Secs. 14-396—14-420. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VIII. - FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION [14] 
   (14) Cross reference—Zoning districts, §
14-51 et seq.; subdivisions, §
14-131 et seq.
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY
   Sec.
14-421. - Statutory authorization..
   Sec.
14-422. - Findings of fact.
   Sec.
14-423. - Statement of purpose.
   Sec.
14-424. - Objectives.
   Sec.
14-425. - Definitions.
   Sec.
14-426. - Lands to which this article applies.
   Sec.
14-427. - Basis for establishing the Special Flood Hazard Areas.
   Sec.
14-428. - Establishment of Floodplain Development Permit.
   Sec.
14-429. - Compliance.
   Sec.
14-430. - Abrogation and greater restrictions.
   Sec.
14-429.    Compliance.
   Sec.
14-430.    Abrogation and greater restrictions.
   Sec.
14-431.    Interpretation.
   Sec.
14-432.    Warning and disclaimer of liability.
   Sec.
14-433.    Penalties for violation.
Sec. 14-421. - Statutory authorization.
   The Legislature of the State of North Carolina has in Part 6, Article 21 of
Chapter 143; Part 121, Article 6 of Chapter 153A; and Article 7, 9, and 11 of
Chapter 160D of the North Carolina General Statutes, delegated to local
governmental units the responsibility to adopt regulations designed to promote
the public health, safety, and general welfare.
(Ord. of 4-2-2018; Ord. of 7-18-2022)
Sec. 14-422. - Findings of fact.
   (a)   The flood prone areas within the jurisdiction of Johnston County are
subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property, health
and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
   (b)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities and by the
occupancy in flood prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other hazards.
(Ord. of 4-2-2018)
Sec. 14-423. - Statement of purpose.
   It is the purpose of this article to promote public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within flood prone areas by provisions designed to:
   (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
   (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and all other development that may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. of 4-2-2018)
Sec. 14-424. - Objectives.
   The objectives of this article are to:
   (1)   Protect human life, safety, and health;
   (2)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (3)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (4)   Minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
   (5)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e. water and gas
mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets, and bridges) that
are located in flood prone areas;
   (6)   Minimize damage to private and public property due to flooding;
   (7)   Make flood insurance available to the community through the National
Flood Insurance Program;
   (8)   Maintain the natural and beneficial functions of floodplains;
   (9)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas; and
   (10)   Ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a Special
Flood Hazard Area.
(Ord. of 4-2-2018)
Sec. 14-425. - Definitions.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this article
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this article it's most reasonable application.
   Accessory structure (appurtenant structure) means a structure located on the
same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports and storage
sheds are common urban accessory structures. Pole barns, hay sheds and the like
qualify as accessory structures on farms, and may or may not be located on the
same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   Addition (to an existing building) means an extension or increase in the
floor area or height of a building or structure.
   Alteration of a watercourse means a dam, impoundment, channel relocation,
change in channel alignment, channelization, or change in cross-sectional area
of the channel or the channel capacity, or any other form of modification which
may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or velocity of the
riverine flow of water during conditions of the base flood.
   Appeal means a request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this article.
   Area of shallow flooding means a designated Zone AO or AH on a community's
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from
one to three feet. These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does
not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and
where velocity flow may be evident.
   Area of Future-Conditions Flood Hazard means the land area that would be
inundated by the 1-percent-annual-chance (100-year) flood based on future-
conditions hydrology.
   Area of Special Flood Hazard see Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA).
   Base flood means the flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   Base Flood Elevation (BFE) means a determination of the water surface
elevations of the base flood as published in the Flood Insurance Study. When
the BFE has not been provided in a "Special Flood Hazard Area", it may be
obtained from engineering studies available from a federal, state, or other
source using FEMA approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when
combined with the "Freeboard", establishes the "Regulatory Flood Protection
Elevation".
   Basement means any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   Building see Structure.
   Chemical storage facility means a building, portion of a building, or
exterior area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or
chemically reactive products.
   Design flood see Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation.
   Development means any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   Development activity means any activity defined as development which will
necessitate a Floodplain Development Permit. This includes buildings,
structures, and non-structural items, including (but not limited to) fill,
bulkheads, piers, pools, docks, landings, ramps, and erosion control/
stabilization measures.
   Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM) means the digital official map of a
community, issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), on which
both the Special Flood Hazard Areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community are delineated.
   Disposal means, as defined in G.S. 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including groundwaters.
   Elevated building means a non-basement building which has its lowest
elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls,
posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
   Encroachment means the advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, structures or development into a special flood hazard area, which
may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   Existing building and existing structure means any building and/or structure
for which the "start of construction" commenced before September 30, 1983.
   Existing manufactured home park or manufactured home subdivision means a
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the initial effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
   Flood or Flooding means a general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM) means an official map of a community,
issued by the FEMA, on which the Special Flood Hazard Areas and the floodways
are delineated. This official map is a supplement to and shall be used in
conjunction with the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
   Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) means an official map of a community,
issued by the FEMA, where the boundaries of the Special Flood Hazard Areas have
been defined as Zone A.
   Flood insurance means the insurance coverage provided under the National
Flood Insurance Program.
   Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) means an official map of a community, issued
by the FEMA, on which both the Special Flood Hazard Areas and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community are delineated. (see also DFIRM.)
   Flood Insurance Study (FIS) means an examination, evaluation, and
determination of flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if
appropriate), flood hazard risk zones, and other flood data in a community
issued by the FEMA. The Flood Insurance Study report includes Flood Insurance
Rate Maps (FIRMs) and Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps (FBFMs), if published.
   Flood Prone Area see Floodplain.
   Flood Zone means a geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or
Flood Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   Floodplain means any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from
any source.
   Floodplain Administrator is the individual appointed to administer and
enforce the floodplain management regulations.
   Floodplain Development Permit means any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this article, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   Floodplain management means the operation of an overall program of
corrective and preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and
enhancing, where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but
not limited to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain
management regulations, and open space plans.
   Floodplain management regulations means this article and other zoning
ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
special purpose ordinances, and other applications of police power. This term
describes federal, state or local regulations, in any combination thereof,
which provide standards for preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
   Floodproofing means any combination of structural and nonstructural
additions, changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate
flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation
facilities, structures, and their contents.
   Flood-resistant material means any building product (material, component or
system) capable of withstanding direct and prolonged contact (minimum 72 hours)
with floodwaters without sustaining damage that requires more than low-cost
cosmetic repair. Any material that is water-soluble or is not resistant to
alkali or acid in water, including normal adhesives for above-grade use, is not
flood-resistant. Pressure-treated lumber or naturally decay-resistant lumbers
are acceptable flooring materials. Sheet-type flooring coverings that restrict
evaporation from below and materials that are impervious, but dimensionally
unstable are not acceptable. Materials that absorb or retain water excessively
after submergence are not flood-resistant. Please refer to Technical Bulletin
2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials Requirements, and available from the FEMA.
Class 4 and 5 materials, referenced therein, are acceptable flood-resistant
materials.
   Floodway means the channel of a river or other watercourse, including the
area above a bridge or culvert when applicable, and the adjacent land areas
that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   Floodway encroachment analysis means an engineering analysis of the impact
that a proposed encroachment into a floodway or non-encroachment area is
expected to have on the floodway boundaries and flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge. The evaluation shall be prepared by a
qualified North Carolina licensed engineer using standard engineering methods
and models.
   Freeboard means the height added to the BFE to account for the many unknown
factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height
calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave
action, blockage of bridge or culvert openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed. The BFE plus the freeboard establishes the
"Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation".
   Functionally dependent facility means a facility which cannot be used for
its intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, limited
to a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo
or passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-
term storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   Hazardous waste management facility means, as defined in G.S. 130A, Article
9, a facility for the collection, storage, processing, treatment, recycling,
recovery, or disposal of hazardous waste.
   Highest Adjacent Grade (HAG) means the highest natural elevation of the
ground surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls
of the structure.
   Historic structure means any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the US Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks in
communities with a "Certified Local Government (CLG) Program"; or
      (4)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a "Certified Local Government
(CLG) Program." Certified Local Government (CLG) Programs are approved by the
US Department of the Interior in cooperation with the North Carolina Department
of Cultural Resources through the State Historic Preservation Officer as having
met the requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 as
amended in 1980.
   Letter of Map Change (LOMC) means an official determination issued by FEMA
that amends or revises an effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or Flood Insurance
Study. Letters of Map Change include:
      (1)   Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA): An official amendment, by letter,
to an effective National Flood Insurance Program map. A LOMA is based on
technical data showing that a property had been inadvertently mapped as being
in the floodplain, but is actually on natural high ground above the base flood
elevation. A LOMA amends the current effective Flood Insurance Rate Map and
establishes that a specific property, portion of a property, or structure is
not located in a special flood hazard area.
      (2)   Letter of Map Revision (LOMR):  A revision based on technical data
that may show changes to flood zones, flood elevations, special flood hazard
area boundaries and floodway delineations, and other planimetric features.
      (3)   Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F): A determination that
a structure or parcel of land has been elevated by fill above the BFE and is,
therefore, no longer located within the special flood hazard area. In order to
qualify for this determination, the fill must have been permitted and placed in
accordance with the community's floodplain management regulations.
      (4)   Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR): A formal review and
comment as to whether a proposed project complies with the minimum NFIP
requirements for such projects with respect to delineation of special flood
hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or
Flood Insurance Study; upon submission and approval of certified as-built
documentation, a Letter of Map Revision may be issued by FEMA to revise the
effective FIRM.
   Light duty truck means any motor vehicle rated at 8,500 pounds Gross
Vehicular Weight Rating or less which has a vehicular curb weight of 6,000
pounds or less and which has a basic vehicle frontal area of 45 square feet or
less as defined in 40 CFR 86.082-2 and is:
      (1)   Designed primarily for purposes of transportation of property or is
a derivation of such a vehicle; or
      (2)   Designed primarily for transportation of persons and has a capacity
of more than 12 persons; or
      (3)   Available with special features enabling off-street or off-highway
operation and use.
   Lowest Adjacent Grade (LAG) means the lowest elevation of the ground,
sidewalk or patio slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after
completion of the building.
   Lowest floor means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage in an area other than
a basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such
an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this article.
   Manufactured home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
   Manufactured home park or subdivision means a parcel (or contiguous parcels)
of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   Market value means the building value, not including the land value and that
of any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. Market value may
be established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (Actual Cash Value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
   New construction means structures for which the "start of construction"
commenced on or after the effective date of the initial floodplain management
regulations and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   Non-Conversion Agreement means a document stating that the owner will not
convert or alter what has been constructed and approved. Violation of the
agreement is considered a violation of the ordinance and, therefore, subject to
the same enforcement procedures and penalties. The agreement must be filed with
the recorded deed for the property. The agreement must show the clerk's or
recorder's stamps and/or notations that the filing has been completed
(OPTIONAL).
   Non-Encroachment Area (NEA) means the channel of a river or other
watercourse, including the area above a bridge or culvert when applicable, and
the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one
foot as designated in the Flood Insurance Study report.
   Post-FIRM means construction or other development for which the "start of
construction" occurred on or after September 30, 1983, the effective date of
the initial Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   Pre-FIRM means construction or other development for which the "start of
construction" occurred before September 30, 1983, the effective date of the
initial Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   Principally above ground means that at least 51% of the actual cash value of
the structure is above ground.
   Public safety and/or nuisance means anything which is injurious to the
safety or health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable
number of persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the
customary manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or
basin.
   Recreational Vehicle (RV) means a vehicle, which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck;
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use;
and
      (5)   Is fully licensed and ready for highway use.
   Reference level is the top of the lowest floor for structures within Special
Flood Hazard Areas designated as Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99.
   Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation means the "Base Flood Elevation" plus
the "Freeboard". In "Special Flood Hazard Areas" where Base Flood Elevations
(BFEs) have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus two feet. In
"Special Flood Hazard Areas" where no BFE has been established, this elevation
shall be at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   Remedy a violation means to bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the
ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   Riverine means relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
   Salvage yard means any non-residential property used for the storage,
collection, and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including but not
limited to vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
   Solid waste disposal facility means any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. 130A-290(a)(35).
   Solid waste disposal site means, as defined in G.S. 130A-290(a)(36), any
place at which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill,
or any other method.
   Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA) means the land in the floodplain subject to
a one percent (1%) or greater chance of being flooded in any given year, as
determined in Sec.
14-427 of this article.
   Start of construction includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
   Structure means a walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, or a gas,
liquid, or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above ground.
   Substantial damage means damage of any origin sustained by a structure
during any one-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to it's
before damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of "substantial
improvement". Substantial damage also means flood-related damage sustained by a
structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost
of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or
exceeds 25% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   Substantial improvement means any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any one-year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the "start of construction" of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure and the alteration is approved by variance issued pursuant
to Sec.
14-438 of this article.
   Technical Bulletin and Technical Fact Sheet means a FEMA publication that
provides guidance concerning the building performance standards of the NFIP,
which are contained in Title 44 of the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations at
Section 60.3. The bulletins and fact sheets are intended for use primarily by
state and local officials responsible for interpreting and enforcing NFIP
regulations and by members of the development community, such as design
professionals and builders. New bulletins, as well as updates of existing
bulletins, are issued periodically as needed. The bulletins do not create
regulations; rather they provide specific guidance for complying with the
minimum requirements of existing NFIP regulations. It should be noted that
Technical Bulletins and Technical Fact Sheets provide guidance on the minimum
requirements of the NFIP regulations. State or community requirements that
exceed those of the NFIP take precedence. Design professionals should contact
the community officials to determine whether more restrictive state or local
regulations apply to the building or site in question. All applicable standards
of the state or local building code must also be met for any building in a
flood hazard area.
   Temperature controlled means having the temperature regulated by a heating
and/or cooling system, built-in or appliance.
   Variance is a grant of relief from the requirements of this article.
   Violation means the failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in Divisions 2 and 3 is presumed to be
in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
   Water Surface Elevation (WSE) means the height, in relation to NAVD 1988, of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of riverine
areas.
   Watercourse means a lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. of 4-2-2018; Ord. of 7-18-2022)
Sec. 14-426. - Lands to which this article applies.
   This article shall apply to all Special Flood Hazard Areas within the
jurisdiction of Johnston County.
(Ord. of 4-2-2018)
Sec. 14-427. - Basis for establishing the Special Flood Hazard Areas.
   The Special Flood Hazard Areas are those identified under the Cooperating
Technical State (CTS) agreement between the State of North Carolina and FEMA in
its FIS dated July 19, 2022 for Johnston County and associated DFIRM panels,
including any digital data developed as part of the FIS, which are adopted by
reference and declared a part of this article. Future revisions to the FIS and
DFIRM panels that do not change flood hazard data within the jurisdictional
authority of Johnston County are also adopted by reference and declared a part
of this article. Subsequent Letter of Map Revisions (LOMRs) and/or Physical Map
Revisions (PMRs) shall be adopted within three months.
(Ord. of 4-2-2018; Ord. of 7-18-2022)
Sec. 14-428. - Establishment of Floodplain Development Permit.
   A Floodplain Development Permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this ordinance prior to the commencement of any development
activities within Special Flood Hazard Areas determined in accordance with the
provisions of Sec.
14-427 of this article.
(Ord. of 4-2-2018)
Sec. 14-429. - Compliance.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
article and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. of 4-2-2018)
Sec. 14-430. - Abrogation and greater restrictions.
   This article is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this article and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. of 4-2-2018)
Sec. 14-431.   Interpretation.
   In the interpretation and application of this article, all provisions shall
be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. of 4-2-2018)
Sec. 14-432.   Warning and disclaimer of liability.
   The degree of flood protection required by this article is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be
increased by man-made or natural causes. This article does not imply that land
outside the Special Flood Hazard Areas or uses permitted within such areas will
be free from flooding or flood damages. This article shall not create liability
on the part of Johnston County or by any officer or employee thereof for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this article or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. of 4-2-2018)
Sec. 14-433.   Penalties for violation.
   Violation of the provisions of this article or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
Class 1 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. § 143-215.58. Any person who violates this
article or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not more than $100.00 or imprisoned for not more than 30
days, or both. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent Johnston County from taking
such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. of 4-2-2018)
DIVISION 2. - ADMINISTRATION [15] 
   (15) Cross reference—Administration,
ch. 2.
   Sec.
14-434.    Designation of Floodplain Administrator.
   Sec.
14-435.    Floodplain development application, permit and certification
requirements.
   Sec.
14-436.    Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator.
   Sec.
14-437.    Corrective procedures.
   Sec.
14-438.    Variance procedures.
Sec. 14-434.   Designation of Floodplain Administrator.
   The County Manager, or his designee, hereinafter referred to as the
"Floodplain Administrator", is hereby appointed to administer and implement the
provisions of this article. In instances where the Floodplain Administrator
receives assistance from others to complete tasks to administer and implement
this article, the Floodplain Administrator shall be responsible for the
coordination and community's overall compliance with the National Flood
Insurance Program and the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 4-2-2018)
Sec. 14-435.   Floodplain development application, permit and certification
requirements.
   (a)   Application Requirements. Application for a Floodplain Development
Permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within Special Flood Hazard Areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
      (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         a.   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area of
development/ disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/ pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities,
and other development;
      b.   The boundary of the Special Flood Hazard Area as delineated on the
most recently adopted version of the FIRM or other flood map as determined in
Sec.
14-427, or a statement that the entire lot is within the Special Flood Hazard
Area;
      c.   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the most recently adopted version of the FIRM or other flood map
as determined in Sec.
14-427;
         d.   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in Sec.
14-427;
         e.   The Base Flood Elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in
Sec.
14-427; Sec.
14-436; or Sec.
14-441;
         f.   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
      (2)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a
Special Flood Hazard Area including but not limited to:
         a.   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 of the proposed reference
level (including basement) of all structures;
         b.   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 to which any non-residential
structure in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99 will be floodproofed; and
      c.   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 to which any proposed utility
systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
      (3)   If floodproofing, a Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-34)
with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and maintenance
plan that include, but are not limited to, installation, exercise, and
maintenance of floodproofing measures.
      (4)   A Foundation Plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this article are
met. These details include but are not limited to:
         a.   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
         b.   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with Sec.
14-440(4)d. when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AE, AH,
AO, A99.
      (5)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor.
      (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (7)   Certification that all other local, state and federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received.
      (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of Sec.
14-440(6) and (7) of this article are met.
      (9)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
   (b)   Permit Requirements. The Floodplain Development Permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      (1)   A complete description of all the development to be permitted under
the floodplain development permit (e.g. house, garage, pool, septic, bulkhead,
cabana, pier, bridge, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or
drilling operations, or storage of equipment or materials, etc.).
      (2)   The Special Flood Hazard Area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in Sec.
14-427.
      (3)   The Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities.
      (4)   The Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities.
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines.
      (6)   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or non-encroachment area of any watercourse unless
the requirements of Sec.
14-443 have been met.
      (7)   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99.
      (8)   Limitations of below BFE enclosure uses (if applicable) (i.e.,
parking, building access and limited storage only).
      (9)   A statement, that all materials below BFE/RFPE must be flood
resistant materials.
   (c)   Certification Requirements.
      (1)   Elevation Certificates.
         a.   An Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-33) is required prior
to the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit
holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the
elevation of the reference level, in relation to NAVD 1988. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the
beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit.
         b.   A final Finished Construction Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form
086-0-33) is required after construction is completed and prior to Certificate
of Compliance/Occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of final as-built
construction of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy.
      (2)   Floodproofing Certificate.
         a.   A final Finished Construction Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA
Form 086-0-34), with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection
and maintenance plan are required prior to the issuance of a Certificate of
Compliance/ Occupancy. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design
elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to
NAVD 1988. Floodproofing certificate shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The
Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the operational
plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to Certificate of Occupancy.
Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required corrections
shall be cause to deny a Floodplain Development Permit. Failure to construct in
accordance with the certified design shall be cause to deny a Certificate of
Compliance/Occupancy.
      (3)   If a manufactured home is placed within Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99
and the elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches in height above grade,
an engineered foundation certification is required in accordance with the
provisions of Sec.
14-440(3)b.
      (4)   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a description of
the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; a professional engineer's
certified report on the effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying
capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties located both upstream
and downstream; and a map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior
to issuance of a floodplain development permit.
      (5)   Certification Exemptions. The following structures, if located
within Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99, are exempt from the elevation/floodproofing
certification requirements specified in items a. and b. of this subsection:
         a.   Recreational Vehicles meeting requirements of Sec.
14-440(6)a.;
         b.   Temporary Structures meeting requirements of Sec.
14-440(7); and
         c.   Accessory Structures that are 150 square feet or less and meeting
requirements of Sec.
14-440(8).
   (d)   Determinations for existing buildings and structures. For applications
for building permits to improve buildings and structures, including
alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy,
additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements, repairs of
substantial damage, and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and
structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with the Building
Official, shall:
      (1)   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work; in the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
      (2)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
      (3)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
      (4)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that compliance
with the flood resistant construction requirements of the NC Building Code and
this article is required.
(Ord. of 4-2-2018; Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-436.   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
   (1)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within Special Flood Hazard Areas to assure that the
requirements of this article have been satisfied.
   (2)   Review all proposed development within Special Flood Hazard Areas to
assure that all necessary local, state and federal permits have been received,
including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of
1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334.
   (3)   Notify adjacent communities and the North Carolina Department of
Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator for the
National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA).
   (4)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained.
   (5)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas unless
the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of Sec.
14-443 are met.
   (6)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) of the reference
level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and
substantially improved structures, in accordance with the provisions of Sec.
14-435(c).
   (7)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) to which all new
and substantially improved structures and utilities have been floodproofed, in
accordance with the provisions of Sec.
14-435(c).
   (8)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) of all public
utilities in accordance with the provisions of Sec.
14-435(c).
   (9)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of Sec.
14-435(c) and Sec.
14-440(2).
   (10)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the Special Flood Hazard Areas, floodways, or non-encroachment areas (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation as provided in this article.
   (11)   When BFE data has not been provided in accordance with the provisions
of Sec.
14-427, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data, along with
floodway data or non-encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or
other source, including data developed pursuant to Sec.
14-441(2)c., in order to administer the provisions of this article.
   (12)   When BFE data is provided but no floodway or non-encroachment area
data has been provided in accordance with the provisions of Sec.
14-427, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway data or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or other source in
order to administer the provisions of this article.
   (13)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration
of this article and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as
amended.
   (14)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to
a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall
make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the
work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and the
terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has
a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (15)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this ordinance, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the
condition(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work
order constitutes a misdemeanor.
   (16)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked.
   (17)   Make periodic inspections throughout the Special Flood Hazard Areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (18)   Follow through with corrective procedures of Sec.
14-437.
   (19)   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance
requests.
   (20)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to,
historical and effective FIS Report, historical and effective FIRM and other
official flood maps and studies adopted in accordance with the provisions of
Sec.
14-427 of this article, including any revisions thereto including Letters of
Map Change, issued by FEMA. Notify state and FEMA of mapping needs.
   (21)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including Letters of
Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-Fs) and Letters of Map Revision (LOMRs).
(Ord. of 4-2-2018)
Sec. 14-437.   Corrective procedures.
   (a)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws; it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
   (b)   Actions in Event of Failure to Take Corrective Action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner's last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      (1)   That the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
      (2)   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at
a designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue
an order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
   (c)   Order to Take Corrective Action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of the Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance, he or she shall issue an order in writing to the owner, requiring
the owner to remedy the violation within a specified time period, not less than
60 calendar days, nor more than least 180 calendar days. Where the Floodplain
Administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life or other property, he
or she may order that corrective action be taken in such lesser period as may
be feasible.
   (d)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the clerk within ten days
following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order
of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body shall
hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm, or
revoke the order.
   (e)   Failure to Comply with Order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. §
143-215.58 and shall be punished at the discretion of the court.
(Ord. of 4-2-2018)
Sec. 14-438.   Variance procedures.
   (a)   The Board of Adjustment as established by Johnston County, hereinafter
referred to as the "appeal board", shall hear and decide requests for variances
from the requirements of this article.
   (b)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may appeal
such decision to the Court, as provided in Chapter 7A of the North Carolina
General Statutes.
   (c)   Variances may be issued for:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      (2)   Functionally dependent facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in Sec.
14-425 of this article, provided provisions of Sec.
14-438(i)(2), (3), and (5) have been satisfied, and such facilities are
protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and
create no additional threats to public safety; or
      (3)   Any other type of development provided it meets the requirements of
this section.
   (d)   In passing upon variances, the appeal board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this article, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under Sec.
14-425 of this article as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (e)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (f)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this article, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
article.
   (g)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the BFE and the elevation to which the
structure is to be built and that such construction below the BFE increases
risks to life and property, and that the issuance of a variance to construct a
structure below the BFE may result in increased premium rates for flood
insurance up to $25 per $100 of insurance coverage. Such notification shall be
maintained with a record of all variance actions, including justification for
their issuance.
   (h)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the FEMA and the State of North Carolina
upon request.
   (i)   Conditions for Variances:
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
non-encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (j)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or sites,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage
facilities that are located in Special Flood Hazard Areas provided that all of
the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The use serves a critical need in the community.
      (2)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the Special Flood
Hazard Area.
      (3)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to
at least the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation.
      (4)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and local
laws.
      (5)   Johnston County has notified the Secretary of the North Carolina
Department of Public Safety of its intention to grant a variance at least 30
calendar days prior to granting the variance.
(Ord. of 4-2-2018)
DIVISION 3. - FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
   Sec.
14-439.    General standards.
   Sec.
14-440.    Specific standards.
   Sec.
14-441.    Standards for floodplains without established flood elevations.
   Sec.
14-442.    Standards for riverine floodplains with base flood elevations but
without established floodways or non-encroachment areas.
   Sec.
14-443.    Floodways and non-encroachment areas.
   Sec.
14-444.    Standards for areas of shallow flooding (Zone AO).
   Sec.
14-445.    Standards for areas of shallow flooding (Zone AH).
Sec. 14-439.   General standards.
   In all Special Flood Hazard Areas the following provisions are required:
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement of the structure.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage in
accordance with the FEMA Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials
Requirements.
      (3)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
      (4)   All new electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air
conditioning equipment, and other service equipment shall be located at or
above the RFPE or designed and installed to prevent water from entering or
accumulating within the components during the occurrence of the base flood.
These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units,
bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable
boxes, water heaters, and electric outlets/switches.
         a.   Replacements part of a substantial improvement, electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment, and other service
equipment shall also meet the above provisions.
         b.   Replacements that are for maintenance and not part of a
substantial improvement, may be installed at the original location provided the
addition and/or improvements only comply with the standards for new
construction consistent with the code and requirements for the original
structure.
      (5)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
      (6)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
      (7)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      (8)   Nothing in this article shall prevent the repair, reconstruction,
or replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of
this ordinance and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-
encroachment area, or stream setback, provided there is no additional
encroachment below the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation in the floodway,
non-encroachment area, or stream setback, and provided that such repair,
reconstruction, or replacement meets all of the other requirements of this
ordinance.
      (9)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in Sec.
14-438(j). A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a Special Flood Hazard Area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the Regulatory
Flood Protection Elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions of
Sec.
14-435(c).
      (10)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
      (11)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (12)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
      (13)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including Section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334.
      (14)   When a structure is partially located in a Special Flood Hazard
Area, the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
      (15)   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest BFE shall apply.
(Ord. of 4-2-2018)
Sec. 14-440.   Specific standards.
   In all Special Flood Hazard Areas where BFE data has been provided, as set
forth in Sec.
14-427, or Sec.
14-441, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of Sec.
14-439, are required:
   (1)   Residential Construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the Regulatory
Flood Protection Elevation, as defined in Sec.
14-425 of this article.
   (2)   Non-Residential Construction.  New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other non-residential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation, as defined in Sec.
14-425 of this article. Structures located in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99 may be
floodproofed to the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation in lieu of elevation
provided that all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, below the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation are
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using
structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. For AO Zones, the floodproofing
elevation shall be in accordance with Sec.
14-444(2). A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the floodproofing standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such
certification shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in
Sec.
14-435(c), along with the operational plan and the inspection and maintenance
plan.
   (3)   Manufactured Homes.
      a.   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that the
reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the Regulatory Flood
Protection Elevation, as defined in Sec.
14-425 of this article.
      b.   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the State of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured
Homes adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to G.S. 143-143.15.
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36
inches or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by
reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is
above 36 inches in height, an engineering certification is required.
      c.   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of Sec.
14-440(4).
      d.   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all residents
of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged manufactured home
parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This plan shall be
filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the local Emergency
Management Coordinator.
   (4)   Elevated Buildings. Fully enclosed area, of new construction and
substantially improved structures, which is below the lowest floor:
      a.   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall only
be used for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
      b.   Shall not be temperature-controlled or conditioned;
      c.   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials at least
to the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation; and
      d.   Shall include, in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99 flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria:
         1.   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         2.   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         3.   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed area
must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and exit;
         4.   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher than
one foot above the higher of the interior or exterior adjacent grade;
         5.   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
         6.   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
   (5)   Additions/Improvements.
      a.   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         1.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages.
         2.   A substantial improvement, with modifications/rehabilitations/
improvements to the existing structure or the common wall is structurally
modified more than installing a doorway, both the existing structure and the
addition must comply with the standards for new construction.
      b.   Additions to pre-FIRM or post-FIRM structures that are a substantial
improvement with no modifications/ rehabilitations/improvements to the existing
structure other than a standard door in the common wall, shall require only the
addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
      c.   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         1.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction consistent with the
code and requirements for the original structure.
         2.   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      d.   Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
or improvement of a building or structure taking place during a one year
period, the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value
of the structure before the improvement or repair is started must comply with
the standards for new construction. For each building or structure, the one
year period begins on the date of the first improvement or repair of that
building or structure subsequent to the effective date of this article.
Substantial damage also means flood-related damage sustained by a structure on
two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred. If the structure
has sustained substantial damage, any repairs are considered substantial
improvement regardless of the actual repair work performed. The requirement
does not, however, include either:
         1.   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary or safety code violations identified by the building
official and that are the minimum necessary to assume safe living conditions.
         2.   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
   (6)   Recreational Vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall either:
      a.   Temporary Placement.
         1.   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; or
         2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. (A recreational
vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is
attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities, and has no
permanently attached additions.)
      b.   Permanent Placement. Recreational vehicles that do not meet the
limitations of temporary placement shall meet all the requirements for new
construction.
   (7)   Temporary Non-Residential Structures.  Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
      a.   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed three months, renewable up to one
year;
      b.   The name, address, and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      c.   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
      d.   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the entity
responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
      e.   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside the
Special Flood Hazard Area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   (8)   Accessory Structures.
      a.   When accessory structures (sheds, detached garages, etc.) are to be
placed within a Special Flood Hazard Area, the following criteria shall be met:
         1.   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
         2.   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
         3.   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         4.   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         5.   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of Sec.
14-439(1);
         6.   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of Sec.
14-439(4); and
         7.   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below Regulatory Flood Protection
Elevation in conformance with the provisions of Sec.
14-440(4)d.
      b.   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square feet
and satisfies the criteria outlined above is not required to meet the elevation
or floodproofing standards of Sec.
14-440(2). Elevation or floodproofing certifications are required for all other
accessory structures in accordance with Sec.
14-435(c).
   (9)   Tanks. When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed within a
Special Flood Hazard Area, the following criteria shall be met:
      a.   Underground tanks. Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood,
including the effects of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty;
      b.   Above-ground tanks, elevated. Above-ground tanks in flood hazard
areas shall be elevated to or above the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation
on a supporting structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement during conditions of the design flood. Tank-supporting
structures shall meet the foundation requirements of the applicable flood
hazard area;
      c.   Above-ground tanks, not elevated. Above-ground tanks that do not
meet the elevation requirements of Sec.
14-440 (2) of this article shall be permitted in flood hazard areas provided
the tanks are designed, constructed, installed, and anchored to resist all
flood-related and other loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during
conditions of the design flood and without release of contents in the
floodwaters or infiltration by floodwaters into the tanks. Tanks shall be
designed, constructed, installed, and anchored to resist the potential buoyant
and other flood forces acting on an empty tank during design flood conditions.
      d.   Tank inlets and vents. Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and vents
shall be:
         1.   At or above the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation or fitted
with covers designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of the
contents of the tanks during conditions of the design flood; and
         2.   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic
and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during conditions of
the design flood.
   (10)   Other Development.
      a.   Fences in regulated floodways and NEAs that have the potential to
block the passage of floodwaters, such as stockade fences and wire mesh fences,
shall meet the limitations of Sec.
14-443 of this article.
      b.   Retaining walls, sidewalks and driveways in regulated floodways and
NEAs. Retaining walls and sidewalks and driveways that involve the placement of
fill in regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of Sec.
14-443 of this article.
      c.   Roads and watercourse crossings in regulated floodways and NEAs.
Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges, culverts, low-water
crossings and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to travel from one side
of a watercourse to the other side, that encroach into regulated floodways
shall meet the limitations of Sec.
14-443 of this article.
(Ord. of 4-2-2018)
Sec. 14-441.   Standards for floodplains without established base flood
elevations.
   Within the Special Flood Hazard Areas designated as Approximate Zone A and
established in Sec.
14-427, where no BFE data has been provided by FEMA, the following provisions,
in addition to the provisions of Sec.
14-439, shall apply:
   (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20 feet
each side from top of bank or five times the width of the stream, whichever is
greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
   (2)   The BFE used in determining the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation
shall be determined based on the following criteria:
      a.   When BFE data is available from other sources, all new construction
and substantial improvements within such areas shall also comply with all
applicable provisions of this article and shall be elevated or floodproofed in
accordance with standards in Sec.
14-439 and Sec.
14-440.
      b.   When floodway or non-encroachment data is available from a federal,
state, or other source, all new construction and substantial improvements
within floodway and non-encroachment areas shall also comply with the
requirements of Sec.
14-440 and Sec.
14-443.
      c.   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals shall provide BFE data if development is greater than five acres or
has more than 50 lots/manufactured home sites. Such BFE data shall be adopted
by reference in accordance with Sec.
14-427 and utilized in implementing this article.
      d.   When BFE data is not available from a federal, state, or other
source as outlined above, the reference level shall be elevated or floodproofed
(nonresidential) to or above the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation, as
defined in Sec.
14-425. All other applicable provisions of Sec.
14-440 shall also apply.
(Ord. of 4-2-2018)
Sec. 14-442.   Standards for riverine floodplains with base flood elevations
but without established floodways or non-encroachment areas.
   Along rivers and streams where BFE data is provided by FEMA or is available
from another source but neither floodway nor non-encroachment areas are
identified for a Special Flood Hazard Area on the FIRM or in the FIS report,
the following requirements shall apply to all development within such areas:
   (1)   Standards of Sec.
14-439 and Sec.
14-440; and
   (2)   Until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is designated, no
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, or
other development, shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within the
community.
(Ord. of 4-2-2018)
Sec. 14-443.   Floodways and non-encroachment areas.
   Areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas are located within
the Special Flood Hazard Areas established in Sec.
14-427. The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous areas
due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris
and potential projectiles. The following provisions, in addition to standards
outlined in Sec.
14-439 and Sec.
14-440, shall apply to all development within such areas:
   (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless:
      a.   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not result
in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood
discharge, based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance
with standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain
Administrator prior to issuance of floodplain development permit; or
      b.   A Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) has been approved by
FEMA. A Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) must also be obtained within six months
of completion of the proposed encroachment.
   (2)   If Sec.
14-443(1) is satisfied, all development shall comply with all applicable flood
hazard reduction provisions of this article.
   (3)   Manufactured homes may be permitted provided the following provisions
are met:
      a.   The anchoring and the elevation standards of Sec.
14-440(3); and
      b.   The encroachment standards of Sec.
14-443(1).
(Ord. of 4-2-2018)
Sec. 14-444.   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (Zone AO).
   Located within the Special Flood Hazard Areas established in Sec.
14-427, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and indeterminate. In addition to Sec.
14-439 and Sec.
14-440, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following requirements:
   (1)   The reference level shall be elevated at least as high as the depth
number specified on the most recently adopted version of the Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM), in feet, plus a freeboard of two feet, above the highest
adjacent grade; or at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade if no
depth number is specified.
   (2)   Non-residential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be floodproofed
to the same level as required in Sec.
14-444(1) so that the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below that level shall be watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of
buoyancy. Certification is required in accordance with Sec.
14-435(c) and Sec.
14-440(2).
   (3)   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on slopes,
to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
(Ord. of 4-2-2018; Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-445.   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (Zone AH).
   Located within the Special Flood Hazard Areas established in Sec.
14-427, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas are subject
to inundation by one-percent-annual-chance shallow flooding (usually areas of
ponding) where average depths are one to three feet. Base Flood Elevations are
derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are shown in this zone. In addition to
Sec.
14-439 and Sec.
14-440, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following requirements:
   (1)   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on slopes,
to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
(Ord. of 4-2-2018)
DIVISION 4. LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
   Sec.
14-446.    Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention ordinance.
   Sec.
14-447.    Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits.
   Sec.
14-448.    Effective date.
   Secs. 14-449—14-500. Reserved.
Sec. 14-446.   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention ordinance.
   This article in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions
of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance enacted September 30, 1983 as amended,
and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and continue to
enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so that all rights
and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be enforced.
The enactment of this article shall not affect any action, suit or proceeding
instituted or pending. All provisions of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance
of Johnston County enacted on September 30, 1983, as amended, which are not
reenacted herein are repealed.
(Ord. of 4-2-2018)
Sec. 14-447.   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size, or designated use of any development or any part thereof
for which a floodplain development permit has been granted by the Floodplain
Administrator or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of
this article; provided, however, that when construction is not begun under such
outstanding permit within a period of six months subsequent to the date of
issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 4-2-2018)
Sec. 14-448.   Effective date.
   This article shall become effective July 18, 2022.
(Ord. of 4-2-2018; Ord. of 7-18-2022)
Secs. 14-449—14-500. Reserved.
ARTICLE IX. - SIGNS [16] 
   (16) Cross reference—Zoning districts, §
14-51 et seq.
   Sec.
14-501. - Intent.
   Sec.
14-502. - Definitions.
   Sec.
14-503. - Signs subject to control.
   Sec.
14-504. - Signs exempt from permit requirements.
   Sec.
14-505. - Traffic safety precautions.
   Sec.
14-506. - General limitations.
   Sec.
14-507. - Sign area, height, setbacks and number.
   Sec.
14-508. - Signs in residential districts and planned development-housing
developments.
   Sec.
14-509. - Signs in OI, GB, CB, I-1, I-2 and IHI districts and shopping centers.
   Sec.
14-510. - Signs in planned development-mixed use.
   Sec.
14-511. - Unified sign plan; requirements; enforcement.
   Sec.
14-512. - Existing signs not conforming to unified sign plan.
   Sec.
14-513. - Binding effect.
   Sec.
14-514. - Outdoor advertising signs.
   Secs. 14-515—14-550. - Reserved.
Sec. 14-501. - Intent.
   It is the intent of this article to authorize the use of signs with size,
layout, legibility, and location and arrangements compatible with their
surroundings; appropriate to the identity of individual properties or occupants
or of the community; and appropriate to traffic safety. More specifically, this
article is intended to:
   (a)   Enhance and protect the physical appearance of the community.
   (b)   Ensure that signs are located and designed to reduce sign distraction
and confusion that may be contributing factors in traffic congestion and
accidents, and maintain a safe and orderly pedestrian and vehicular
environment.
   (c)   Provide review procedures that enable the county to comprehensively
evaluate the appropriateness of a sign to the site, building, and surroundings.
   (d)   Prohibit all signs not expressly permitted by this article.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 11.1; Amend. of 9-5-2006)
Sec. 14-502. - Definitions.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Awning or canopy sign means a sign that is attached to, or made a part of,
an awning, canopy, or other fabric, plastic, or structural protective cover,
such as over a door, window, or other opening to a building or over a gas pump.
An awning or canopy sign is a type of wall sign when calculating wall sign
area.
   Banner sign means any nonrigid linear or rope-like sign (usually made of
cloth, plastic, or canvas and has no enclosing framework) that is mounted or
attached to a building, object, or the ground. A pennant is a triangular-shaped
banner that might be blank or might display images or words. A ribbon is a
rectangular-shaped banner [that] might be blank or might display images or
words. A streamer may have multiple banners, pennants, and/or ribbons attached
and is stretched or hung between two or more points. National or state flags or
the official flag of any institution shall not be considered banners.
   Billboard sign means an off-site sign that advertises an establishment,
merchandise, service, or entertainment that is not sold, produced,
manufactured, or furnished at the property on which said sign is located. Also
known as an outdoor advertising sign.
   Building marker means a cornerstone, a historical marker, or similar sign
with letters, words, or insignia cut into the building surface, or otherwise
permanently mounted on the building, which convey a memorial, the name of the
building, address or date of construction, or similar noncommercial message.
   Business identification sign means a freestanding or wall sign that is
intended to announce or promote the use, activity, service, or business on the
premises of any retail or service business, shopping center, manufacturing
establishment, industrial park, or similar. Such a sign may include a directory
of occupants. This does not include any sign that includes any additional
information such as an arrow, map, phone number, for sale or for rent, or
development amenities.
   Changeable copy sign means a freestanding or wall sign or portion of a sign
that permits computer-driven or manually-changeable copy that provides non-
moving messages and does not change messages more than four times per day.
   Construction site sign means a temporary sign identifying the name of a
subdivision, building, and/or public works project or facility and/or an
architect, engineer, contractor, developer, subcontractor, material supplier,
and/or similar occupations participating during the time of construction. Also
known as a project construction site sign.
   Directional sign means a sign located at or near the public right-of-way,
private street, or public road easement that directs or guides traffic and
parking from the street onto a property.
   Directory sign means a freestanding or wall sign that lists the tenants of a
business property or lists informational items for an institutional land use.
   Flag means the colors and/or emblem of a government body, association,
group, business, or corporation. A string of flags is a streamer and is not
included in this definition.
   Freestanding sign means a sign that is permanently embedded and/or anchored
in the ground, in concrete, or similar. This includes a sign that has a
decorative foundation or base, such as brick and/or stone. A freestanding sign
is also known as a ground sign, ground-mounted sign, monument sign, or pole
sign.
   Ground sign means a sign that is attached to two or more poles that are
permanently embedded and/or anchored in a decorative foundation or base, such
as brick and/or stone. A ground sign is also known as a ground-mounted sign.
   Illuminated sign means a sign with an artificial light source for the
purpose of illuminating the sign. An externally-illuminated sign is illuminated
by an external source that reflects light off the surface of a sign face. An
internally-illuminated sign has internal light source that emits light through
the sign face.
   Instructional sign means a sign whose purpose is secondary to the use on the
lot and is intended to instruct employees, customers, and/or users as to
specific parking requirements, the location or regulations pertaining to
specific activities on the site or in the building, specific services offered,
and/or methods of payments accepted.
   Menu board means a sign whose purpose is to show menu selections and prices
to drive-through window customers and is usually associated with the remote
order-taking system. A preorder board is a variation of a menu board and is
usually located prior to the remote order-taking system.
   Monument sign means a sign that is not attached to poles and uses decorative
materials, such as brick and/or stone, to frame or to hold the sign.
   Nonconforming sign means a sign that was erected legally but does not comply
with these sign regulations.
   Nameplate means a sign on the building that indicates only the name and/or
address of the person, business, home occupation, profession, or activity
occupying the lot. A separate nameplate is allowed for each such entity. A
nameplate may be used as part of the operation or maintenance of any equipment
that is on site.
   Outdoor advertising sign means an off-site sign that advertises an
establishment, merchandise, service, or entertainment that is not sold,
produced, manufactured, or furnished at the property on which said sign is
located. Also known as a billboard sign.
   Pole sign means a sign that is attached to one or two poles that are
permanently embedded and/or anchored in the ground, in concrete, or similar. A
pole sign does not have a decorative foundation or base, such as brick and/or
stone.
   Project construction sign means a temporary sign identifying the name of a
subdivision, building, and/or public works project or facility and/or an
architect, engineer, contractor, developer, subcontractor, material supplier,
and/or similar occupations participating during the time of construction. Also
known as a construction site sign.
   Public purpose or safety sign means a sign erected by a public authority,
utility, public service organization, or private industry upon the public
right-of-way or easement or, when required by law, on private property that is
intended to control traffic; to direct, identify or inform the public; or to
provide a needed public service, as determined by the rules and regulations of
governmental agencies or through public policy. Such signs include "no parking"
or "fire lane" signs.
   Projecting sign means a sign attached to a wall or facade where the exposed
face of the sign is perpendicular to the plane of that wall or facade or forms
a V angle of 45 degrees or more. A projecting sign extends more than 12 inches
from the wall or facade and does not project above the roofline.
   Residential development identification sign means a freestanding or wall
sign identifying the only the name and/or address of a residential subdivision
or multifamily development. This does not include any sign that includes any
additional information, such as an arrow, map, phone number, home prices or
apartment rents, or development amenities.
   Residential district means any zoning district primarily intended for
residential land uses, currently including agricultural-residential (A-R),
residential-mobile home park (R-MPH), resort residential (RR), A-R/R-40, A-R/R-
40/20, R-10, R-20, R-40, or the residential portion of a planned unit
development (PUD) plus any of these that are associated with a special use
district (SUD) or a watershed protection district (WSPD).
   Roof sign means a sign erected on or over the roof of a building or a sign
that is affixed to a wall or facade where any part of the sign extends above
that wall or facade.
   Sign shall include any device that is intended and/or designed to announce,
inform, direct, and/or advertise and may be represented by words or letters,
figures, symbols or characterizations, and/or other graphics.
   Sign, commercial message means a sign that conveys a message of a commercial
nature including commercial activity, content, commodity, service,
entertainment, product, transaction, use, or advertising for any business.
   Sign, non-commercial message means a sign which has no commercial content,
but instead involves only the expression of ideals, opinions, or beliefs.
   Streamer means a length of material that contains multiple banners,
pennants, and/or ribbons attached and is stretched or hung between two or more
points.
   Temporary commercial sign means a temporary sign that is designed to be used
for a time period of one month or less; is intended for commercial use or
expression; and is not permanently attached to a structure or the ground. Such
signs include corrugated and plastic core signs on metal or plastic legs or
spikes, "daily special" signs, sale signs for merchandise such as a Presidents'
Day sale, political signs, trailer signs, A-frame and sandwich board signs,
air-activated attraction devices such as balloons and inflated figures, and
frame signs as are used in residential real estate.
   Under-canopy sign means a sign suspended beneath an awning, canopy, ceiling,
roof, or marquee and is intended to be viewed by pedestrians from the sidewalk.
   Wall sign means a sign attached to, or painted on, a building face, with the
exposed face of the sign being in a plane parallel to the plane of the wall or
forms a V angle of less then 45 degrees. Also included is a sign that is a part
of, attached to, or painted on an awning or canopy. A wall sign does not extend
more than 12 inches from building face and does not project above the roofline
or beyond any corner of the building. A ghost sign, the remaining image of a
previous sign that is still visible, is considered to be a wall sign.
   Window sign means a sign that is physically affixed to, or painted on, the
glass or other structural component of the window or is placed behind the glass
and can be read by people outside of the building. By definition, a sign
includes a poster, graphics, symbols, or other identification.
   Yard sign means a temporary sign intended for non-commercial use or
expression. Such signs include baby and birthday celebration signs, garage or
yard sale signs, and political signs.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, §§ 11.2, 11.3; Amend. of 9-5-2006; Amend. of - - )
   Cross reference—Definitions generally, §
1-2.
Sec. 14-503. - Signs subject to control.
   Unless specifically exempt, no sign visible from a public right-of-way shall
be erected, displayed, or substantially altered except in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and until a sign permit has been issued therefor.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 11.4; Amend. of 9-5-2006)
Sec. 14-504. - Signs exempt from permit requirements.
   The following signs are exempt from permit requirements under this article,
provided such signs comply with the provisions of sections
14-505 and
14-506:
   (1)   Signs bearing only property identification numbers and names, post
office box numbers, names of occupants of the premises on which the signs are
located, or other identification of premises not of a commercial nature,
provided the signs are not illuminated. Such signs shall not exceed two square
feet in area per display face or six feet in height if freestanding.
   (2)   Flags and insignia of a government, when not displayed in connection
with a commercial promotion. Such signs shall not exceed 100 square feet in
area per display face or 75 feet in height if freestanding. The setback shall
be at least ten feet.
   (3)   Legal notices, identification and information signs, and traffic
directional or regulatory signs erected by or on behalf of a governmental body.
Such signs shall have no limitation as to sign area, height, or setback.
   (4)   Memorial signs or tablets, and names and construction dates of
buildings when cut into any masonry surface. Such signs shall meet the sign
area, height, or setback limitations for wall or freestanding signs, as
appropriate.
   (5)   Signs directing or guiding traffic and parking on private property on
which the signs are located, provided such signs are not illuminated, or are
indirectly illuminated, bear no advertising matter. On private property, such
signs shall not exceed four square feet in area per display face or six feet in
height if freestanding. Such signs shall have no limitation as to sign area,
height, or setback when located on public property.
   (6)   Real estate signs advertising the sale, rental, or lease of the
premises on which the signs are located, provided such signs are removed
immediately after sale, rental, or lease of the premises. Such residential real
estate signs shall not exceed 16 square feet in area per display face or six
feet in height if freestanding.
   Such nonresidential real estate signs shall not exceed 32 square feet in
area per display face or eight feet in height if freestanding.
   (7)   Construction site identification signs whose message is limited to
project name, identification of architects, engineers, contractors, and other
individuals or firms involved with the construction; the name of the building/
development, the intended purpose of the building/development, and the expected
completion date, provided such signs are removed within seven days of the
issuance of the certificate of occupancy. Such signs shall not exceed 20 square
feet in area per display face and shall meet the height or setback limitations
for wall or freestanding signs, as appropriate.
   (8)   Yard or garage sale signs announcing yard or garage sales, provided
such signs are removed within seven days of the sale. Such signs shall not
exceed four square feet in area per display face or four feet in height if
freestanding.
   (9)   Public event announcements by public or nonprofit organizations of
special events or activities of interest to the general public, provided such
signs are removed within seven [days] after the event. Such signs shall not
exceed 32 square feet in area per display face or eight feet in height if
freestanding.
   (10)   Signs announcing grand openings of new business only, provided such
signs are attached to the building in which the business is located and are
displayed for a period not to exceed 30 days. Such signs shall not exceed 32
square feet in area per display face and shall meet the height or setback
limitations for banner, wall, or freestanding signs, as appropriate.
   (11)   Signs stating that a business is open or closed, provided that there
is no more than one such sign per business establishment. Such signs shall not
exceed four square feet in area per display face and shall meet the height or
setback limitations for wall or freestanding signs, as appropriate.
   (12)   Political signs advertising candidates or issues, provided such signs
are not erected prior to 60 days before the date of the appropriate election,
and are removed within seven days after the election. Such political signs
shall be mounted on poles and stakes and shall not be erected and located
within any public right-of-way or within any sight distance triangle easement
of intersections. Such signs shall not be placed on trees or utility poles.
Such signs shall not exceed 48 square feet in area per display face or eight
feet in height if freestanding. Nothing in this subsection is intended to
preempt any applicable state law regarding political campaign signs. All signs
placed in rights of way controlled and maintained by the North Carolina
Department of Transportation shall comply with the requirements of G.S. 136-32.
   Signs not permitted by this article or not removed in a timely manner will
be removed by the county with the cost of removal assessed to the property
owner.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 11.5; Amend. of 9-5-2006; Amend. of 5-7-2007; Amend. of
9-4-2007; Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-505. - Traffic safety precautions.
   Notwithstanding any other provision in this chapter, the following
restrictions shall apply to signs in order to preserve the safety of
pedestrian, bicycle, and vehicular movement:
   (1)   No sign, or part thereof, shall be located within a clear-vision area
established by subsection
14-357(c).
   (2)   No sign shall make use of the words "stop," "slow," "caution,"
"danger," or any other word, phrase, symbol, or character in such manner as is
reasonably likely to be confused with traffic directional and regulatory signs.
   (3)   No sign shall be erected so that by its location, color, nature, or
message is likely to be confused with or obstruct the view of traffic signals
or signs, or is likely to be confused with the warning lights of an emergency
or public safety vehicle.
   (4)   Except as used to display time and temperature, no sign shall contain
flashing lights.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 11.6)
Sec. 14-506. - General limitations.
   (a)   Except where specifically exempted by this chapter, the subject matter
of any sign shall be related to the premises on which the sign is located. When
the use or establishment to which a sign is related ceases or is vacated, the
advertising material shall be removed within 30 days and such sign shall be
removed within 12 months of the cessation or vacating of the use or
establishment, unless such sign is used by a new use or establishment on the
premises in conformance with all current regulations of this chapter.
   (b)   Except where specifically exempted by this chapter, all signs,
including its attendant supports, frames, hardware, and embellishments thereto,
shall not be located within any public right-of-way or easement, nor shall any
sign be attached, affixed, or painted on any utility pole, light standard,
telephone or telegraph pole, any tree, rock, or other natural object.
   (c)   No source of illumination of a sign, such as floodlighting or
spotlights, shall be directly visible from any public right-of-way, from any
residential zoning district, or from adjacent properties.
   (d)   Animated, rotating, or other moving or apparently moving signs shall
be prohibited.
   (e)   Devices consisting of banners, streamers, pennants, balloons, wind-
blown propellers, moored blimps, strung light bulbs, and similar installations
shall be prohibited unless approved by the planning director for noncommercial
events.
   (f)   No sign shall be erected, painted, or otherwise mounted on the roof of
a building or above the eaves, border or overhang.
   (g)   Non-commercial message. Whenever the LDC permits a commercial sign, a
non-commercial message may be substituted for the commercial message. The right
to substitute the non-commercial message does not waive any other requirement
imposed by the LDC as to the number, size, type, construction, location,
lighting, safety or other regulated attribute.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 11.7; Amend. of 9-5-2006; Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-507. - Sign area, height, setbacks and number.
   (a)   The area of a display surface of a sign shall be computed as including
the entire area visible from any one point, within a regular geometric form or
combination of forms, comprising all of the display area of the surface and
including all of the elements within the display area and the sign frame.
Structural members not bearing a sign message shall not be included in the
computation of sign area.
   (b)   For the purpose of determining the number of signs, a sign shall be
considered to be a single display device containing elements organized,
related, and composed to form a unit. Where elements are displayed in a random
manner without organized relationship, each element shall be considered a
single sign.
   (c)   The height of any freestanding sign shall be measured from the base of
the sign or supportive structure at its point of attachment to the ground to
the topmost element of the sign, including any architectural features,
antennas, or other attachments. A freestanding sign on a manmade base shall be
measured from the original grade of that base, the original grade of the graded
earth mound, or the nearest street, drive, or parking area, whichever is
lowest.
   (d)   All sign setbacks shall be measured from the public right-of-way,
street easement (if there is no right-of-way), or pavement edge (if there is no
right-of-way or street easement), unless otherwise stated in this article.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 11.8; Amend. of 9-5-2006; Amend. of 9-4-2007)
Sec. 14-508. - Signs in residential districts and planned development-housing
developments.
   No sign shall be erected or displayed in any residential district or planned
development-housing except as allowed below:
   (1)   Development identification signs containing the name and/or logo of a
subdivision, multifamily development, mobile home park, or planned development,
provided such signs are limited to one freestanding sign at each principal
point of access to the development, as follows:
      a.   Reserved.
      b.   Monument sign: 60 square feet or two signs mounted on wooden, brick
or stone entry walls, 30 square feet per display surface, and a maximum height
of six feet above finished grade.
      c.   Ground sign: 60 square feet or two signs mounted on wooden, brick or
stone entry walls, 30 square feet per display surface, and a maximum height of
six feet above finished grade.
   (2)   Home occupation signs identifying a home occupation, provided such
signs are not illuminated and are limited to one wall sign per zoning lot and a
maximum display surface area of four square feet. The setback shall be at least
20 feet.
   (3)   A place of worship bulletin board or sign not exceeding 48 square feet
for the purpose of displaying the name of the institution and other related
information. Such signs shall be set back at least 20 feet from the street
right-of-way or easement line, at a maximum height of six feet for ground and
monument signs and the roofline for wall signs.
   (4)   Nonresidential signs identifying nonresidential uses permitted as a
principal or special use in residential districts or as an accessory use in
planned development-housing developments, provided such signs are limited to
one freestanding or wall sign per zoning lot and 16 square feet in area per
display, at a maximum height of six feet for ground and monument signs and the
roofline for wall signs.
   (5)   Lighting of signs in residential districts and in planned development-
housing developments is permitted if illumination levels are low, all fixtures
are concealed, and spillover of light is minimal.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 11.9; Amend. of 9-5-2006; Amend. of 9-4-2007)
Sec. 14-509. - Signs in OI, GB, CB, I-1, I-2 and IHI districts and shopping
centers.
   (a)   Signs; erection and display; exceptions. No sign shall be erected or
displayed in the office and institutional, general business, community
business, industrial-1 or industrial-2 district, interstate highway interchange
district, and shopping centers, except as provided below for the type of sign
and zoning district in which it is located.
   (b)   Specific sign regulations, on-premises signs. 
   (1)   Wall/fascia sign. Wall signs include awnings and canopies.
      a.   Size. No more than 25 percent of the area of any wall may be devoted
to signs, up to a maximum of 200 square feet.
      b.   Number. More than one wall sign may be erected, provided the total
surface area regulation is not exceeded.
      c.   Height. No sign shall extend above the parapet wall, eave line, or
above the roofline of buildings without parapet walls.
      d.   Projection/clearance. No sign may project more than 12 inches from
the building wall.
      e.   Illumination. Wall signs may be illuminated, provided such signs
shall be lighted from behind to silhouette letters and figures, or those
utilizing floodlighting or other non-internally illuminated light sources shall
be contained within a concealed fixture and angled so as to prevent a direct
view of the light source from a public street or adjacent property.
      f.   Location. Wall signs shall not cover up or interrupt major
architectural features.
   (2)   Freestanding signs. Pole, monument, and ground signs are permitted as
set forth in this section.
      a.   Size. The maximum surface area of a freestanding sign shall be:
         1.   Pole sign, 40 square feet.
         2.   Monument sign, 60 square feet.
         3.   Ground sign, 60 square feet.
      b.   Number. One freestanding sign shall be allowed on any lot, subject
to the regulations in this section, provided a pole sign shall only be allowed
on a lot which contains 100 feet or more of frontage on the street to which
such sign is oriented. If a unified sign plan is approved by the planning
department, two freestanding signs may be allowed on a lot or development
having a minimum frontage of 300 feet on each of two adjacent streets or more
than 600 linear feet of frontage on a single street, but only one may be a pole
sign. When more than one freestanding sign is to be constructed, the total
amount of freestanding sign area shall not exceed 0.25 square feet per linear
foot frontage on the adjacent street or greatest length.
      c.   Setback. No portion of any freestanding sign may extend over any
property line or into any public right-of-way, or be located within 15 feet of
any interior side lot line. Further, no sign may be constructed within 20 feet
of a right-of-way of a street.
      d.   Height. No pole sign nor any part of a pole sign, including base or
apron, supporting structures, and trim may exceed 15 feet in height. Further,
no monument sign or ground sign may exceed six feet in height.
      e.   Illumination. All freestanding signs may be illuminated either
internally or externally. All external light sources shall be contained within
a concealed fixture or box and angled so as to prevent a direct view of the
light source from a street and/or adjacent property.
      f.   Landscaping. Shrubs, flowers or ground covers, or any combination
thereof, shall be planted around the entire base of any freestanding sign. The
minimum planting area shall be equal to one-half of the sign area.
   (3)   Window sign. Window signs shall comply with the following:
      a.   Size. Within any given pane of glass, window signs shall cover no
more than 25 percent of the glass area.
      b.   Number. More than one window sign may be placed on, in front of, or
behind any given pane of glass.
      c.   Projection/clearance. No window sign may project more than one inch
from any given pane of glass.
      d.   Illumination. Window signs may be illuminated, provided such signs
shall be neon, lighted internally or from behind to silhouette letters and
figures, or externally-illuminated from within a concealed fixture and angled
so as to prevent a direct view of the light source from a public street or
adjacent property. Window signs shall not use LED lighting, have changeable
copy, or flash or other use motion.
   (c)   Interstate interchange highway district (IHI) freestanding sign. In
place of a freestanding sign, as allowed in subsection (b)(2), one freestanding
sign may be erected and displayed on a zoning lot within the interstate highway
interchange district (IHI) in accordance with the following provisions:
   (1)   The maximum area per display surface for freestanding signs shall be
100 square feet per sign face.
   (2)   Any such freestanding sign shall have no more than two sign faces upon
which sign information can be placed;
   (3)   The maximum height of a pole sign shall be 50 feet, 16 feet for a
monument sign, and 12 feet for a ground sign;
   (4)   Ground signs may be illuminated, provided such illumination shall be
limited to internal illumination, lighted from behind to silhouette letters and
figures.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 11.10; Ord. of 11-13-2000, § 11.10.1; Amend. of 9-5-2006;
Amend. of 9-4-2007)
Sec. 14-510. - Signs in planned development-mixed use.
   No sign intended to be read from outside a planned development-mixed use, or
from any public streets within the development, shall be permitted within such
development except as provided below:
   (1)   Development identification signs containing the name and trademark of
a planned development, provided such signs are limited to one ground sign at
each principal point of access to the development, as follows:
      a.   Reserved.
      b.   Monument sign: 60 square feet or two signs mounted on wooden, brick
or stone entry walls, 30 square feet per display surface, and a maximum height
of six feet above finished grade.
      c.   Ground sign: 60 square feet or two signs mounted on wooden, brick or
stone entry walls, 30 square feet per display surface, and a maximum height of
six feet above finished grade.
   (2)   Office building identification signs containing only the name of a
building or building complex and the nature of the establishments therein,
provided such signs are limited to one wall sign per building with a display
area not exceeding one square foot per linear foot of the building, up to a
maximum area of 20 square feet.
   (3)   All commercial uses are subject to the provisions of sections
14-509(b) and
14-511.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 11.11; Amend. of 9-5-2006; Amend. of 9-4-2007)
Sec. 14-511. - Unified sign plan; requirements; enforcement.
   (a)   The owners or developers of two or more contiguous lots or any
multitenant use of a commercial property, including, but not limited to,
shopping centers, convenience centers, or office complexes, shall submit a
unified sign plan for approval as part of their site plan application, or at a
later date. No sign permit application will be accepted for such property or
use until a unified sign plan is approved by the planning department.
   (b)   An application for a unified sign plan shall be filed with the
planning department. The applicant shall indicate the standards of consistency
for all signs on the subject property with regard to:
   (1)   Colors.
   (2)   Letter/graphics style. Note: Federal and state registered trademarks
may be employed in addition to the specified letter style and colors, but may
not exceed 12 square feet in copy area.
   (3)   Location of each sign.
   (4)   Materials to be used in construction.
   (5)   Maximum dimensions and proportions.
   (6)   Other standards imposed by the applicant.
   A copy of the approved unified sign plan, including any amendments, must be
kept on file in the planning department.
   (c)   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant and/or property owner
to enforce the terms of the approved unified sign plan.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, §§ 11.12, 11.12.1, 11.12.2)
Sec. 14-512. - Existing signs not conforming to unified sign plan.
   If any new or amended unified sign plan is filed for a property on which
existing signs are located, the amended plan shall include a schedule for
bringing into conformance, within three years, all signs not conforming to the
proposed amended plan or to the requirements of this article in effect on the
date of submission.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 11.12.3)
Sec. 14-513. - Binding effect.
   After approval of a unified sign plan, no sign shall be erected, placed,
painted, or maintained except in conformance with the approved plan.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 11.12.4)
Sec. 14-514. - Outdoor advertising signs.
   (a)   Where permitted. Outdoor advertising signs are permitted only along
U.S. 70 (except the Clayton bypass section of U.S. 70 from the Wake County line
to the U.S. 70/U.S. 70 business split at Cole Road) and Interstate 95 in the
county's planning jurisdiction, provided that:
   (1)   The outdoor advertising sign shall be located in a general business,
industrial-1 or industrial-2 zoning district. Note: this provision does not
include special use districts or on property that is encumbered by a special
use permit;
   (2)   No outdoor advertising sign shall be so located along, or visible
from, Interstate 40 or the Clayton bypass section of U.S. 70 from the Wake
County line to the U.S. 70/U.S. 70 business split at Cole Road; and
   (3)   The applicant for such signs obtains a permit from the state
department of transportation district engineer for an outdoor advertising sign,
in accordance with the provisions of the Outdoor Advertising Act of 1967.
   (b)   Standards. All outdoor advertising signs replaced or substantially
replaced or repaired to more than 50 percent of the sign's current assessed
value shall meet the following provisions:
   (1)   The maximum area for any one sign with a monopole type design and
construction shall be 500 square feet of display area, or 300 square feet of
display area if of a nonmonopole type design, with a maximum height of 20 feet
and maximum length of 50 feet, inclusive of any border and trim but excluding
the base or apron, supports and other structural members. If an advertising
message appears on the base or apron, it will not be excluded from the maximum
dimensions. Not more than one face or advertising message is allowed on each
side of the display.
   (2)   The display area shall be measured by the smallest square, rectangle,
triangle, circle, or combination thereof which will encompass the entire sign.
   (3)   The maximum size limitations shall apply to each side of a sign
structure; signs may be placed back-to-back, side-by-side, or in V-type
construction with not more than one display to each facing, and such sign
structure shall be considered as one sign.
   (4)   V-type and back-to-back signs will not be considered as one sign if
located more than 15 feet apart at their furthest points and connected and
physically contiguous.
   (5)   Signs may not be located in such a manner as to obscure or physically
interfere with the effectiveness of an official traffic sign, signal, or
device, nor obstruct or physically interfere with the driver's view of
approaching, merging, or intersecting traffic.
   (6)   Outdoor advertising signs shall be so located that:
      a.   No two signs shall be spaced less than 2,000 feet apart;
      b.   The minimum distance between signs shall be measured along the
nearest edge of the pavement between points directly opposite the signs along
each side of the highway and shall apply to sign structures located on both
sides of the highway;
      c.   Such signs shall be within 800 feet of an existing valid and
operating industrial or commercial business;
      d.   Such signs shall be no closer than 1,000 feet from any parcel of
land containing a residential structure; and
      e.   Such signs shall be at least 50 feet off the public right-of-way and
no more than 200 feet of the public right-of-way.
   (7)   The maximum height of an outdoor advertising sign shall not exceed 50
feet on locations adjoining U.S. 70 or I-95.
   (8)   Signs shall not be illuminated by any flashing, intermittent, or
moving light or lights.
   (9)   Signs shall not contain any changing billboards, rotating slats or
other means of creating a movable message display.
   (10)   Signs which are not effectively shielded so as to prevent beams or
rays of light from being directed at any portion of the traveled ways of U.S.
70 or I-95 and which are of such intensity or brilliance as to cause glare and
to impair the vision of the driver of any motor vehicle, or which otherwise
interfere with any driver's operation of a motor vehicle are prohibited.
   (11)   No sign shall be so illuminated that it interferes with the
effectiveness of, or obscures an official traffic sign, device, or signal.
   (12)   All such lighting shall be subject to any other provisions relating
to lighting or signs presently applicable to all highways under the
jurisdiction of the state.
   (13)   Illumination shall not be added to nonconforming signs.
   (c)   Permit required. No outdoor advertising sign of any type replaced or
substantially replaced or repaired to more than 50 percent of the sign's
current assessed value shall be constructed, erected, placed, or replaced until
a permit has been issued by the planning director. Such permit will not be
issued until a sign plan has been submitted showing the location, size, height
and style of each sign, and the planning director has determined that the sign
will comply with the provisions of this chapter. After the planning director
has issued a sign permit, the applicant will be referred to the state
department of transportation district engineer to obtain the proper state
permits and emblems for outdoor advertising signs if so required.
   (d)   Transfer of permit. The transfer of ownership of a specific outdoor
advertising sign for which a permit has been lawfully issued to the original
owner shall not in any way affect the validity of the permit for that specific
sign, provided that the planning director and the appropriate state department
of transportation district engineer is given notice of the transfer of
ownership within 30 days of the actual transfer.
   (e)   Revocation of permit. Any valid permit issued for a lawful outdoor
advertising structure may be revoked by the planning director for any one of
the following reasons:
   (1)   Mistake of material facts by the issuing authority for which had the
correct facts been made known, the outdoor advertising permit in question would
not have been issued.
   (2)   Issuance of a permit based on an error of law.
   (3)   Misrepresentation of material facts by the outdoor advertiser on the
application for a permit for outdoor advertising.
   (4)   Failure to pay all applicable fees.
   (5)   Failure to construct an outdoor advertising structure and affix the
permanent emblem within 180 days from the date of issuance of the outdoor
advertising permit by the state department of transportation if so required.
   (6)   Any alteration of an outdoor advertising structure for which a permit
has previously been issued which would cause that outdoor advertising structure
to fail to comply with the provisions of the Outdoor Advertising Control Act
and the rules and regulations promulgated by the state board of transportation
pursuant thereto.
   (7)   Any alteration of a nonconforming sign shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of section
14-504.
   (8)   Unlawful destruction of trees or shrubs or other growth located on the
right-of-way in order to increase or enhance the visibility of an outdoor
advertising structure.
   (9)   Unlawful violation of the control of access on interstate, freeway and
other controlled-access facilities.
   (10)   Failure to maintain a sign such that it reaches a state of
dilapidation, disrepair or disuse. Such determination shall be made by the
county.
   (11)   Abandonment, discontinuance or destruction of a sign.
   (12)   Making repairs to a nonconforming sign that exceed 50 percent of the
sign's current assessed value. Total repairs during any 12 consecutive months
may not exceed 50 percent of the initial construction cost of the sign.
   The planning director may consult with the appropriate state department of
transportation district engineer concerning any of the reasons listed in this
subsection for revocation of a permit.
   (f)   Repairs. The holder of the sign permit shall contact the state
department of transportation district engineer prior to making any major
repairs to discuss the scope of the proposed improvements. If the district
engineer determines needed repairs to a nonconforming sign will exceed 50
percent of the sign's current assessed value, he may contact the right-of-way
branch to consider purchase of the sign, contingent upon funding availability.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 11.13; Ord. of 11-13-2000, § 11.13.2; Amend. of 9-5-2006)
Secs. 14-515—14-550. - Reserved.
ARTICLE X. - NONCONFORMITIES
   Sec.
14-551. - Intent.
   Sec.
14-552. - Nonconforming lots.
   Sec.
14-553. - Nonconforming uses.
   Sec.
14-554. - Nonconforming features.
   Sec.
14-555. - Nonconforming signs.
   Sec.
14-556. - Repairs and maintenance.
   Sec.
14-557. - Nonconformity survey and notice.
   Secs. 14-558—14-590. - Reserved.
Sec. 14-551. - Intent.
   It is the intent of this article to recognize that the eventual elimination,
as expeditiously as is reasonable, of existing uses or structures that are not
in conformance with the provisions of this chapter is as much a subject of
health, safety, and welfare as is the prevention of the establishment of new
uses or structures that would violate the provisions of this chapter. It is
also the intent of this article that any elimination of nonconformities shall
be effected so far as to avoid any unreasonable invasion of established private
property rights.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 12.1; Amend. of 8-3-2020)
Sec. 14-552. - Nonconforming lots.
   (a)   Definition. A nonconforming lot is a lot that was lawfully created or
approved as part of a preliminary subdivision plat that remains valid and
unexpired, or for which a subdivision application was lawfully submitted in
accordance with article III of this Chapter, prior to the effective date of
this article or a subsequent amendment thereto, but does not conform to the
minimum land area or minimum lot width requirements established in article II
of this chapter for the zoning district in which it is located.
   (b)   Use. Nonconforming lots may be used, developed, or improved in
accordance with the applicable use, intensity, setback and height regulations
provided in article II of this chapter. However, any use, such as a two-family
or multifamily dwelling, that requires a greater land area than the minimum
land area listed in article II of this chapter for the appropriate zoning
district shall not be permitted on a lot which does not conform to such minimum
land area requirement. If compliance with applicable setback regulations is not
reasonably possible for a structure intended on a nonconforming lot, the
nonconforming lot may be used as a building site subject to the granting of a
variance from such setback regulations by the board of adjustment in accordance
with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 12.2; Ord. of 11-13-2000, § 12.2.2; Amend. of 8-3-2020)
Sec. 14-553. - Nonconforming uses.
   (a)   Definition. A nonconforming use is a use of land, buildings, or
structures that was lawfully established prior to the effective date of this
chapter, or a subsequent amendment thereto, but does not conform to the use
regulations of article II of this chapter for the zoning district in which it
is located.
   (b)   Regulations. Nonconforming uses may be continued subject to the
following limitations:
   (1)   No nonconforming use shall be extended, expanded, enlarged, or moved
to occupy a different or greater area of land, buildings, or structures than
was occupied by such use at the time it became nonconforming, provided that a
nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a building which were
specifically designed and arranged for such use at the time it became
nonconforming.
   (2)   No building or structure devoted to a nonconforming use shall be
enlarged, extended, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered unless such
building or structure is thereafter devoted to a conforming use.
   (3)   When a building or structure devoted to a nonconforming use is damaged
to the extent of 50 percent or more of its current assessed taxable value, such
a building, if restored, shall thereafter be devoted to conforming uses.
   (4)   If a nonconforming use ceases for more than 120 consecutive days or a
total of 180 days in any 12-month period, subsequent use of the land or
structures previously devoted to such use shall thereafter be devoted to
conforming uses.
   (c)   Discontinuance. Except as otherwise provided in this section, any
nonconforming use of land and any nonconforming use of structures with a total
replacement cost of less than $5,000.00 at the time such use became
nonconforming shall cease within five years after the date of notice of
nonconformity required in section
14-557, or within 20 years after the construction of such structures, whichever
is later.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 12.3; Amend. of 8-3-2020)
Sec. 14-554. - Nonconforming features.
   (a)   Definition. A nonconforming feature is a physical feature or
characteristic of a use, building, structure or other development or land that
was lawfully established prior to the effective date of this chapter or a
subsequent amendment thereto, but does not conform to the intensity regulations
of article II or the design standards of article VI of this chapter applicable
to such use, building, structure or development of land. Nonconforming features
include, but are not limited to, physical features and characteristics of
development that exceed allowable maximum standards (height, etc.), and those
that lack or fall short of required minimum standards (setbacks, open space/
recreation space, parking and loading spaces, access and circulation
arrangement and design, water supply and sewage disposal arrangement, and
landscaping requirements).
   (b)   Regulations. Nonconforming features may be continued subject to the
following limitations:
   (1)   Action shall be taken which increases the degree or extent of the
nonconforming feature. Any enlargement, extension or structural alteration
shall conform to all current requirements of this article.
   (2)   When a building, structure, or other development of land having a
nonconforming feature is damaged or demolished to the extent of 50 percent or
more of its assessed taxable value, such building, structure, or development of
land may be reconstructed only if the nonconforming feature is eliminated and
the building or structure shall thereafter conform to the provisions of this
chapter.
   (c)   Discontinuance. Any sign having a nonconforming feature shall be
either eliminated or made to conform with the provisions of this chapter when
any substantial alteration to the sign is proposed. Any building, structurally
independent or freestanding structure other than a sign, or other development
of land, (fencing, parking area, or accessory structure) having a nonconforming
feature and having a replacement of correction cost of less than $5,000.00
shall be either eliminated or made to conform with the provisions of this
chapter, within three years after the date of the notice of nonconformity
required in section
14-557.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 12.4; Amend. of 8-3-2020)
Sec. 14-555. - Nonconforming signs.
   (a)   Definition. A nonconforming sign is a sign that was lawfully
established prior to the effective date of this chapter or a subsequent
amendment thereto, but does not conform to the design standards of article VI
of this chapter applicable to such sign.
   (b)   Regulations. Nonconforming signs may be continued subject to the
following limitations:
   (1)   No nonconforming sign, including its permanent message or its
structure, shall be extended, enlarged, moved, or otherwise altered unless such
sign is made to conform to the current regulations of this chapter.
   (2)   When a nonconforming sign is damaged or demolished to the extent where
more than 50 percent of its display area requires replacement, such sign shall
be eliminated or made to conform to the current regulations of this chapter.
   (3)   When the repair or replacement cost of a nonconforming sign exceeds
$2,500.00 for a sign located on a wood base, or $6,000.00 for a sign located on
a metal base, such sign shall be eliminated or made to conform to the current
regulations of this chapter.
   (c)   Amortization. Any nonconforming sign shall be either eliminated or
made to conform to current regulations of this chapter in accordance with the
following schedule:
   (1)   Any nonconforming sign that does not conform to the requirements of
section
14-505, traffic safety precautions, shall be either eliminated or made to
conform to the current regulations of this chapter within 120 days after the
date of notice of nonconformity required in section
14-557.
   (2)   Any nonconforming sign that is exempt from regulation under subsection
14-504, but does not conform to the temporary sign limitations in section
14-504, shall be either eliminated or made to conform to the current
regulations of this chapter within 120 days after the date of notice of
nonconformity required in section
14-557.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 12.5; Ord. of 11-13-2000, §§ 12.5.2, 12.5.3; Amend. of 8-
3-2020)
Sec. 14-556. - Repairs and maintenance.
   (a)   Minor repairs to and routine maintenance of land, buildings,
structures, or to other development of land or portion thereof, devoted to a
nonconforming use or having nonconforming features are permitted, provided the
cost of such repairs and maintenance within any 12-month period does not exceed
30 percent of the current assessed taxable value of the land, building,
structure, or other development of land, or portion thereof.
   (b)   Any structure or other development of land, or portion thereof,
devoted to a nonconforming use or having a nonconforming feature, that is
declared unsafe by the building inspector because of lack of repairs and
maintenance, shall not be repaired, restored, or used except in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (c)   Any structure or other development of land, or portion thereof,
devoted to a nonconforming use or having a nonconforming feature, that is
declared unsafe by the building inspector, but not because of lack of repairs
or maintenance, may be repaired and restored subject to the requirements of
sections
14-553(b) and
14-554(b).
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 12.6; Amend. of 8-3-2020)
Sec. 14-557. - Nonconformity survey and notice.
   (a)   Within 18 months after the effective date of this chapter, or
subsequent amendment thereto, the county manager shall conduct an inventory of
all nonconforming uses, and other significant nonconforming features existing
within the county's jurisdiction.
   (b)   On completion of the inventory, the county manager, or his assigns,
shall notify the owner of the nonconforming lot, or the property on which each
nonconformity is located, of the determination of nonconformity, the reasons
thereof, and the deadlines, where applicable, for compliance with the
provisions of this article as amended.
   (c)   The requirements of this section shall not preclude the further
inventory and subsequent notices of nonconformity.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 12.7; Amend. of 8-3-2020)
Secs. 14-558—14-590. - Reserved.
ARTICLE XI. - ADMINISTRATION [17] 
   (17) Cross reference—Administration,
ch. 2.
DIVISION 1. - INTERPRETATIONS, APPEALS AND VARIANCES
   Sec.
14-591. - Interpretations.
   Sec.
14-592. - Appeals.
   Sec.
14-593. - Variances.
   Sec.
14-594. - Procedures for appeals and variances.
   Secs. 14-595—14-610. - Reserved.
Sec. 14-591. - Interpretations.
   Where there is an uncertainty as to the intent of actual meaning of any
provision of this chapter, or as to the intended location of any zoning
district boundary shown on the zoning atlas, the planning director shall make
an interpretation of such provision or boundary on request of any person. Any
person aggrieved by such interpretation may appeal the interpretation to the
board of adjustment in accordance with the provisions of section
14-592. In making an interpretation of any zoning district boundary, or in
deciding any appeal thereof, the planning director or board of adjustment shall
apply the following standards:
   (1)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerline of
streets, highways or alleys shall be construed as following such centerline.
   (2)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following lot lines shall be
construed as following such lot lines.
   (3)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following railroad lines shall
be construed to be midway between the main tracks.
   (4)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the shoreline or
centerline of streams, rivers, lakes or other bodies of water shall be
construed as following such shoreline or centerline; in the event of change in
shoreline or centerline, the boundary shall be construed as moving with the
actual shoreline or centerline.
   (5)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following designated limits of
areas of special flood hazard shall be construed as following such limits, as
shown on the official base floodway and floodplain boundary maps and base flood
profiles.
   (6)   Boundaries indicated as approximately parallel to, as extensions of,
features described in subsections (1)—(5) of this section shall be so
construed; distances not specifically indicated on the zoning atlas shall be
determined by reference to the scale of the atlas.
   (7)   Where features described in subsections (1)—(5) of this section, as
existing on the ground, are at variance with those indicated on the zoning
atlas, or in other circumstances not covered by subsections (1)—(6) of this
section, the board of adjustment shall interpret the district boundaries.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 13.1)
Sec. 14-592. - Appeals.
   (a)   Applicability. Any decision of the county manager, zoning
administrator or other designee made in the administration of the provisions of
this chapter may be appealed to the board of adjustment by any person aggrieved
by such decision. G.S. 160D-405 authorizes appeals to a board of adjustment. An
application for appeal shall be filed within 30 days of the filing of the
decision being appealed or the delivery of any required written notice of the
decision, whichever is later. Any decision of the planning board in granting or
denying a preliminary plat approval, or a conditional land use permit approval
and any decision of the board of commissioners may be appealed to the superior
court within 30 days by an action in the nature of a writ of certiorari.
   (b)   Stay of further action. An appeal to the board of adjustment stays all
actions seeking enforcement of and compliance with the decision being appealed,
except where the planning director certifies to the board of adjustment that,
based on findings stated in the certificate, a stay would cause imminent peril
to life or property, or that because the situation appealed from is transitory
in nature, an appeal would seriously interfere with enforcement of this
chapter. G.S. 160D-405 is the basis for this subsection.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 13.2; Amend. of 9-8-2009; Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-593. - Variances.
   (a)   When unnecessary hardships would result from carrying out the strict
letter of a zoning ordinance, the board of adjustment may vary any of the
provisions of the ordinance in accordance with G.S. 160D-705.
   (b)   No change in permitted and/or special uses may be authorized by
variance.
   (c)   Appropriate conditions may be imposed on any variance, provided that
the conditions are reasonably related to the variance.
   (d)   A variance from the dimensional regulations of this chapter may be
granted by the board of adjustment if it finds that the following can be
determined:
      (1)   That strict compliance with the regulations would result in an
unnecessary hardship;
   (2)   That the hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size, or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance. A variance may be granted when necessary and appropriate
to make a reasonable accommodation under the Federal Fair Housing Act for a
person with a disability;
      (3)   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant or
the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance shall not be
regarded as a self-created hardship;
      (4)   That the requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose,
and intent of the ordinance, such that public safety is secured, and
substantial justice is achieved;
      (5)   That the variance will not substantially interfere with or injure
the rights of others whose property would be affected by granting of the
variance;
      (6)   That the hardship relates to the applicant’s property, rather
resulting from the existence of nonconforming situations in the vicinity; and
      (7)   That the variance will not result in a violation of the provisions
of article X of this chapter by allowing the enlargement, extension, or the
greater permanence or intensity of a nonconforming use or feature.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 13.3; Amend. of 12-1- 2014; Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-594. - Procedures for appeals and variances.
   (a)   Application submittal requirements. Applications for appeal or for a
variance shall be filed with the planning director. The planning director shall
prescribe the form on which applications are made, as well as any other
material which may reasonably be required to make the determinations called for
in the particular case, with sufficient copies for necessary referrals and
records. No applications shall be accepted by the planning director unless it
complies with such requirements. Applications which are not complete shall be
returned forthwith to the applicant, with a notation of the deficiencies in the
application. On receipt of a complete application, the planning director shall
transmit the application to the board of adjustment. In the case of
applications for appeal, the planning director shall also transmit to the board
all documents constituting the record on which the decision being appealed was
based.
   (b)   Notice of evidentiary public hearing. After its receipt of an
application for appeal or for a variance, the board of adjustment shall hold an
evidentiary public hearing on the application at its next available regularly
scheduled meeting. Notice shall be provided consistent with the procedures in
section
14-254(d).
   (c)   Evidentiary hearing procedure. The evidentiary public hearing shall be
held using the procedures in section
14-254(e) through (k).
   (d)   Action on the application. After completion of the public hearing, the
board of adjustment shall take action on the application. In the case of
applications for appeal, such action shall be to reverse, or affirm (wholly or
partly), or modify the decision being appealed. In the case of applications for
a variance, such action shall be based on findings as to each of the
determinations required in this section, and shall be approval, or approval
subject to conditions, or denial. The board may impose reasonable conditions on
the granting of any variance to ensure that the public health, safety, and
general welfare shall be protected and substantial justice done. In its
consideration of applications for a variance, the board shall not use the
existence of nonconformities in the vicinity as justification for the granting
of variances. G.S. 160D-406(i) requires affirmative votes of four-fifths of the
board's members to decide in favor of an applicant. Each final decision shall
be reduced to writing, reflect the board's determination of contested facts and
their application to the applicable standards, and be approved by the board and
signed by the chair or other duly authorized member of the board. The decision
is effective upon filing the written decision with the planning director.
   (e)   Actions subsequent to decision. The planning director shall deliver
the board's decision to the applicant within a reasonable time by personal
delivery, electronic mail, or first-class mail, and shall file a copy of it
with the county's planning department. The planning director shall certify to
the local government that proper notice has been made, and the certificate
shall be deemed conclusive in the absence of fraud. If a variance is granted,
the planning director shall issue a variance permit stating the nature of the
variance and any conditions attached thereto. The applicant shall record the
permit in the office of the county register of deeds.
   (f)   Appeal of decision. A decision of the board of adjustment on an
application for appeal or for a variance may be appealed to the superior court
by an aggrieved party. Such appeal shall be in the nature of certiorari and
must be filed within 30 days of the filing of the decision in the office of the
planning department or the delivery of the notice required in subsection (d) of
this section, whichever is later.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 13.4; Amend. of - - )
Secs. 14-595—14-610. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - ENFORCEMENT
   Sec.
14-611. - Violations.
   Sec.
14-612. - Liability.
   Sec.
14-613. - Procedures upon discovery of violations.
   Sec.
14-614. - Penalties, remedies, and recovery of administration costs.
   Sec.
14-615. - Junked motor vehicle removal.
   Secs. 14-616—14-630. - Reserved.
Sec. 14-611. - Violations.
   Whenever, by the provisions of this article, the performance of any act is
required, or the performance of any act is prohibited, or whenever any
regulation or limitation is imposed on the use of any land, or on the erection,
alteration, or the use or change of use of a structure, a failure to comply
with such provisions shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 14.1)
Sec. 14-612. - Liability.
   The owner, tenant, or occupant of any land or structure, or part thereof,
and any architect, engineer, builder, contractor, agent, or other person who
participates in, assists, directs, creates, or maintains any such situation
that is contrary to the requirements of this chapter may be held responsible
for the violation and be subject to the penalties and remedies provided in
section
14-614.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 14.2)
Sec. 14-613. - Procedures upon discovery of violations.
   Upon the determination that any provision of this chapter is being violated,
the planning director shall deliver a written notice by personal service or by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the person
responsible for such violation, to the holder of the development approval, and
to the landowner of the property involved, if the landowner is not the holder
of the development approval, indicating the nature of the violation and
ordering the action necessary to correct it. The notice of violation shall be
delivered by personal delivery, electronic delivery, or first-class mail and
may be provided by similar means to the occupant of the property or the person
undertaking the work or activity. The notice of violation may be posted on the
property. The person providing the notice of violation shall certify to the
county that the notice was provided, and the certificate shall be deemed
conclusive in the absence of fraud. Additional written notices may be sent at
the planning director's discretion. The final written notice, which may also be
the initial notice, shall state possible sanctions if the violation is not
corrected, and shall advise that the planning director's order may be appealed
to the board of adjustment as provided in section
14-592. In cases when delay would seriously threaten the effective enforcement
of this chapter, or pose a danger to the public health, safety or general
welfare, the planning director may seek enforcement without prior written
notice by invoking any penalties or remedies contained in section
14-614.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 14.3; Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-614. - Penalties, remedies, and recovery of administration costs.
   (a)   Criminal penalties. Any violation of any provision of this chapter
shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall subject the violator to a penalty of
$500.00 or imprisonment for not more than 30 days. Any act constituting a
violation of this chapter shall also subject the offender to a civil penalty of
$100.00. If the offender fails to pay the penalty within ten days of receiving
final written notice of a violation, the penalty may be recovered by the county
in a civil action in the nature of a debt. A civil penalty may not be appealed
to the board of adjustment if the offender received a final written notice of
violation and did not appeal to the board of adjustment within 45 days of the
receipt of the written notice. Each day that any violation continues after
receipt of the final written notice of such violation shall constitute a
separate violation and a separate offense for purposes of the penalties and
remedies specified in this section. The county may hold or revoke the issuance
of any county permit for land or structures upon which a violation has occurred
or one otherwise impacted by a violation. For any building or structure which
requires or has received a certificate of occupancy, and is being maintained in
violation, or is directly impacted by a violation of this chapter, such
violation is deemed to be an applicable ordinance pursuant to section 309.1 of
the state building code and no certificate of occupancy may be issued until the
violation is corrected.
   (b)   Civil penalties. The county zoning enforcement officer, and any
planning department employee designated as having authority to assess civil
penalties under this chapter are hereby empowered to issue civil citations upon
the observance of a violation of this chapter. The minimum civil penalties for
violation of this chapter shall be as follows:
   (1)   Restitution of damages. The county may seek restitution of damages or
extra expenses including the cost of clean up, resulting from any violation of
this chapter. The minimum charge for clean up will be $25.00. Actual charges
will be determined by the planning director or authorized personnel.
   (2)   Monetary penalties. The minimum civil penalties for violation of this
chapter shall be as follows:
 
First offense       $100.00
Second offense      $300.00
Subsequent offenses $500.00
 
   (c)   In addition to any civil or criminal remedies set out in this section
the county, in its sole discretion, may seek, as an alternative and/or
additional relief the recovery of its actual investigative cost where:
   (1)   The person responsible for the violation has received at least one
notice of violation or citation prior to the enforcement action in which
investigative cost are being sought;
   (2)   Those administrative costs are determined to be greater than $500.00.
   In the event a violation of this Code of Ordinances is determined to exist
by a court of competent jurisdiction, the person subject to the enforcement
action taken by the county shall be liable for the county's reasonable
attorney's fees in accordance with North Carolina law.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 14.4; Ord. of 11-13-2000, § 14.4; Amend. of 10-13-2003, §
2)
Sec. 14-615. Junked motor vehicle removal.
   Any county initiated removal of junked motor vehicles shall be subject to
all hearing requirements as identified by G.S. 153A-132.2(a3). The hearing
procedure is hereby established subject to Article XI of this Code.
(Ord. of 2-3-2014)
Secs. 14-616—14-630. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - ADMINISTRATIVE MECHANISMS
   Sec.
14-631. - Responsibilities of the board of commissioners.
   Sec.
14-632. - Planning board.
   Sec.
14-633. - Board of adjustment.
   Secs. 14-634—14-650. - Reserved.
Sec. 14-631. - Responsibilities of the board of commissioners.
   (a)   The board of commissioners shall have the following responsibilities
in relation to the administration of this chapter:
   (1)   Hear and decide applications for amendments to the text, schedules and
zoning atlas map portions of this chapter;
   (2)   Hear and decide applications for a special use permit;
   (3)   Establish rules and procedures for the conduct of hearings and other
procedures before the board of commissioners;
   (4)   Make the necessary appointments to the planning board and board of
adjustment; and
   (5)   Provide by appropriation, funds for the administration of this
chapter.
   (b)   In considering proposed amendments to the text of this chapter or to
the zoning atlas, the board of commissioners acts in its legislative capacity
and shall observe the procedural requirements set forth in division 4 of this
article.
   (c)   In considering special use permit applications, the board of
commissioners acts in a quasijudicial capacity and, accordingly, shall observe
the procedural requirements set forth in article IV of this chapter.
   (d)   Unless otherwise specifically provided for in this chapter, the board
of commissioners, in acting upon a special use permit application or in
considering amendments to this chapter or the zoning atlas, shall observe the
quorum, voting, and other requirements set forth in the board of commissioners
administrative policy.
   (e)   The board of commissioners shall adhere to the following conflict of
interest provisions required by G.S. 160D-109:
   (1)   Commissioners shall not vote on any legislative decision regarding a
development regulation adopted pursuant to this chapter where the outcome of
the matter being considered is reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial,
and readily identifiable financial impact on the member.
   (2)   Commissioners shall not vote on any zoning amendment if the landowner
of the property subject to a rezoning petition or the applicant for a text
amendment is a person with whom the member has a close familial, business, or
other associational relationship.
   (3)   Commissioners shall not participate in or vote on any quasijudicial
matter in a manner that would violate affected persons' constitutional rights
to an impartial decision maker. Impermissible violations of due process
include, but are not limited to, a member having a fixed opinion prior to
hearing the matter that is not susceptible to change, undisclosed ex parte
communications, a close familial, business, or other associational relationship
with an affected person, or a financial interest in the outcome of the matter.
   (4)   If an objection is raised to a board member's participation at or
prior to the hearing or vote on a particular matter and that member does not
recuse himself or herself, the remaining members of the board shall by majority
vote rule on the objection.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 15.1; Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-632. - Planning board.
   (a)   Establishment of the board; qualifications. A planning board is hereby
established consisting of nine voting members and one representative from the
board of county commissioners and one representative from the board of
education who will serve as nonvoting, ex officio members. All members shall
reside within the county and shall be appointed by the board of commissioners.
   (b)   Tenure. Members of the planning board shall be appointed to serve
terms of three years, and until their respective successors have been appointed
and qualified. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term only.
   (c)   Officers. The planning board shall elect one member to serve as
chairman and preside over its meetings, and shall create and fill such offices
and committees as it may deem necessary. The term of the chairman and other
offices shall be one year, with eligibility to serve consecutive terms.
   (d)   Powers of the board. The planning board shall have the following
powers and duties:
   (1)   To make studies of the general development characteristics and
problems of the county, including surveys and inventories of an appropriate
nature, and to recommend standards and policies of development for the county
or any portion thereof, or any project to be undertaken in this chapter;
   (2)   To seek to coordinate the activities of individuals and public
agencies and organizations whose plans, activities, and programs bear on the
general development of the county;
   (3)   To undertake, on its own or in collaboration with any other board,
commission, agency, society, or organization, any programs of information,
research, or analysis relating to any matters under its purview;
   (4)   To cooperate with other boards, commissions, or agencies of the county
or other governmental unit in offering or requesting assistance, guidance, or
advice concerning matters under the board's purview or of mutual interest;
   (5)   To formulate and recommend to the board of commissioners the adoption
or amendment of ordinances that, in the opinion of the board will serve to
promote the orderly development of the county in accordance with the
comprehensive plan;
   (6)   To promote public interest in an understanding of its recommendations,
studies, and plans, and to prepare, publish, and distribute to the public such
studies and reports that, in the opinion of the board, will promote the orderly
development of the county in accordance with the comprehensive plan and other
county development policies;
   (7)   To request the board of commissioners to hold public hearings on
matters within the purview of the board;
   (8)   To enter, at reasonable times, upon private lands and make
examinations or surveys as necessary for the performance of its official
duties;
   (9)   To conduct public meetings and hearings, giving reasonable notice to
the public thereof;
   (10)   To review and make recommendations to the board of commissioners on
special use permit applications where appropriate, and on proposed amendments
to development ordinances and the zoning atlas;
   (11)   To review and take action on proposed plats for subdivision for
conformity with land development regulations, in accordance with article III of
this chapter;
   (12)   To establish an advisory council or other committees within its
membership as it may deem necessary;
   (13)   To recommend that one of its members serve as a liaison with the
county board of adjustment; and
   (14)   To exercise such other powers and to perform such other duties as are
authorized or required elsewhere in this chapter, the General Statutes, or by
the board of county commissioners.
   (e)   Meetings. The planning board shall establish a regular meeting
schedule, and shall meet at least monthly and more often as it shall determine
and require. All meetings of the board shall be open to the public, and
reasonable notice of the time and place thereof shall be given to the public,
in accordance with G.S. 143-138.9 et seq. The board shall keep a record of its
meetings, including attendance of its members, its resolutions, findings,
recommendations and actions. In case of a divided vote on any question on which
the board is required to act, the record shall include the vote of each member.
   (f)   Attendance at meetings. Any member of the planning board who misses
more than two regular meetings in a six-month period shall constitute grounds
for the loss of status as a member of the board, and may be replaced by the
board of commissioners. Absence due to a sickness, death, or other emergency of
like nature shall be recognized as an excused absence, and shall not affect the
member's status on the board, except that in the event of a long illness or
other such cause for prolonged absence, the member shall be replaced.
   (g)   Quorum and voting. A quorum of the planning board, necessary to take
any official action, shall consist of six members. The concurring vote of a
simple majority of those members present shall be necessary to take any
official action.
   (h)   Avoiding conflicts of interest. Planning board members shall adhere to
the following conflict of interest provisions required by G.S. 160D-109:
   (1)   Financial conflicts. Members of the planning board shall not vote on
any advisory or legislative decision regarding a development regulation adopted
pursuant to this chapter where the outcome of the matter being considered is
reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable
financial impact on the member.
   (2)   Relationship conflicts. A planning board member shall not vote on any
zoning amendment if the landowner of the property subject to a rezoning
petition or the applicant for a text amendment is a person with whom the member
has a close familial, business, or other associational relationship.
   (3)   Shall not participate in or vote on any quasijudicial matter in a
manner that would violate affected persons' constitutional rights to an
impartial decision maker. Impermissible violations of due process include, but
are not limited to, a member having a fixed opinion prior to hearing the matter
that is not susceptible to change, undisclosed ex parte communications, a close
familial, business, or other associational relationship with an affected
person, or a financial interest in the outcome of the matter.
   (4)   If an objection is raised to a board member's participation at or
prior to the hearing or vote on a particular matter and that member does not
recuse himself or herself, the remaining members of the board shall by majority
vote rule on the objection.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 15.2; Ord. of 1-14-2002; Amend. of 4-2-2007; Amend. of 3-
3-08(1); Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-633. - Board of adjustment.
   (a)   Establishment of the board; qualifications. A board of adjustment
consisting of five members and two alternate members is established. The five
members and two alternates shall reside within the county and shall be
appointed by the board of commissioners. Each alternate member shall sit as a
regular member on any matter in the absence of a regular member. Members shall
serve without compensation.
   (b)   Tenure. Members of the board of adjustment shall be appointed to serve
terms of three years, and until their respective successors have been appointed
and qualified. The terms of the original members may be staggered so that all
terms do not expire simultaneously. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired
term only.
   (c)   Officers. The board of adjustment shall elect one member to serve as
chairman and preside over its meetings, and shall create and fill such offices
and committees as it may deem necessary. The term of the chairman and other
offices shall be for one year, with eligibility for reelection to a second
term. The chairman or any member temporarily acting as chairman is authorized
to administer oaths to any witnesses in any matter coming before the board.
   (d)   Powers of the board. The board of adjustment shall have the following
powers:
   (1)   To hear and decide appeals from any decision or determination made by
the planning director in the performance of his duties in the enforcement of
this chapter;
   (2)   To hear and decide requests for variances from the dimensional
regulations of this chapter, in accordance with article X of this chapter;
   (3)   To make interpretations of the zoning atlas, including disputed
questions on zoning district boundary lines or lot lines, and similar questions
as they arise in the administration of this chapter;
   (4)   To enter, at reasonable times, upon private lands and make
examinations or surveys as necessary for the performance of its official
duties;
   (5)   To request the board of commissioners to hold public hearings on
matters within the purview of the board; and
   (6)   To hear and decide any other matter as required by the provisions of
this chapter.
   (e)   Meetings. The board of adjustment shall establish a regular meeting
schedule and shall meet frequently enough so that it may take action as
expeditiously as reasonably possible. All meetings of the board shall be open
to the public and reasonable notice of the time and place thereof shall be
given to the public in accordance with G.S. ch. 143, art. 33C. The board shall
adopt rules of procedure and regulations for the conduct of its affairs. In
considering appeals, variance requests, and interpretations, the board shall
observe the quasijudicial procedural requirements set forth in article X of
this chapter. The board shall keep a record of its meetings, including
attendance of its members, the vote of each member on every question, a
complete summary of the evidence submitted to it, documents submitted to it,
and all official actions.
   (f)   Attendance at meetings. Any member of the board of adjustment who
misses more than three consecutive regular meetings or more than half the
regular meetings in a calendar year may lose his status as a member of the
board, and shall be replaced by the board of commissioners. Absence due to
sickness, death, or other emergency of like nature shall be recognized as an
excused absence, and shall not affect the member's status on the board, except
that in the event of a long illness or other such cause for prolonged absence,
the member shall be replaced.
   (g)   Quorum and voting. A quorum of the board of adjustment, necessary to
take any official action, shall consist of four members. The concurring vote of
four-fifths of the membership of the board shall be necessary in order to:
   (1)   Approve an application for a variance;
   (2)   Reverse or modify a decision of the planning director in the case of
applications for appeal; or
   (3)   Decide in favor of the applicant in any other matter on which the
board is required to act by this chapter.
   The concurring vote of a majority of those members present shall be
necessary to conduct routine business of the board, to deny applications for
variances; and, in the case of appeals, to affirm the decision of the planning
director.
   (h)   Appeals of board of adjustment actions. Every decision of the board of
adjustment may be appealed to the superior court by an aggrieved party. Such
appeal shall be in the nature of certiorari and must be filed within 30 days of
the filing of the decision in the office of the planning department or the
delivery of the notice required in section
14-613 whichever is later.
   (i)   Avoiding conflicts of interest. Members of the board of adjustment
shall not participate in or vote on any quasijudicial matter in a manner that
would violate affected persons' constitutional rights to an impartial decision
maker. Impermissible violations of due process include, but are not limited to,
a member having a fixed opinion prior to hearing the matter that is not
susceptible to change, undisclosed ex parte communications, a close familial,
business, or other associational relationship with an affected person, or a
financial interest in the outcome of the matter. If an objection is raised to a
board member's participation at or prior to the hearing or vote on a particular
matter and that member does not recuse himself or herself, the remaining
members of the board shall by majority vote rule on the objection.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 15.3; Amend. of 12-3-2007; Amend. of 9-8-2009; Amend. of
- - )
Secs. 14-634—14-650. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - AMENDMENTS
   Sec.
14-651. - Intent.
   Sec.
14-652. - Amendment initiation.
   Sec.
14-653. - Procedures.
   Sec.
14-654. - Site development plan.
   Secs. 14-655—14-680. - Reserved.
Sec. 14-651. - Intent.
   (a)   In order to establish and maintain sound, stable and desirable
development within the planning jurisdiction of the county it is intended that
this chapter shall not be amended except:
   (1)   To correct a manifest error in this chapter;
   (2)   Because of changed or changing conditions in a particular area of the
jurisdiction generally; or
   (3)   To achieve the purposes of the comprehensive plan.
   (b)   It is further intended that, if amended, this chapter be amended only
as reasonably necessary to the promotion of the public health, safety, or
general welfare, and in conformance with the comprehensive plan.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 16.1)
Sec. 14-652. - Amendment initiation.
   (a)   A request to amend this chapter may be initiated by:
   (1)   The board of commissioners, on its own motion;
   (2)   The planning board, on the submittal of a request to the board of
commissioners;
   (3)   The county manager, on submittal of a request to the board of
commissioners; or
   (4)   Any property owner or citizen, or agent thereof, on submittal of an
application to the planning director.
   (b)   All requests and applications for amendments to this chapter shall be
acted on as provided in this division.
   (c)   No amendment to zoning regulations or a zoning map that down-zones
property shall be initiated nor is it enforceable without the written consent
of all property owners whose property is the subject of the down-zoning
amendment, unless the down-zoning amendment is initiated by the county. For
purposes of this section, down-zoning means a zoning ordinance that affects an
area of land in one of the following ways:
   (1)   By decreasing the development density of the land to be less dense
than was allowed under its previous usage.
   (2)   By reducing the permitted uses of the land that are specified in a
zoning ordinance or land development regulation to fewer uses than were allowed
under its previous usage.
   (d)   A request for a rezoning to a conditional zoning district may be made
only by application from the owners of all the property included in the area
proposed to be rezoned. This option is intended to support rezonings for firm
development proposals with definitive plans that are customized to the context
of a particular development project on a particular site. Each conditional
zoning district includes one or more conditions of approval that help the
project conform to the county’s adopted ordinances and plans, and mitigate the
impacts reasonably expected to be generated by the development or use of the
site.
   (1)   Conditions and requirements. The approval for each conditional
district shall specify all conditions of development and use of land that
differ from the requirements of the corresponding general use district.
Specific conditions may be proposed by the petitioner, by staff, or by the
board of commissioners, but only those conditions approved by the board of
commissioners and consented to by the petitioner in writing may be incorporated
into the zoning regulations. Such conditions must be designed to help the
project conform to the county’s adopted ordinances and plans, and/or mitigate
the impacts reasonably expected to be generated by the development or use of
the site. Such conditions may be stricter than the corresponding general use
district. Such conditions may also relax applicable standards, as long as no
dimensional standard is relaxed by more than ten percent, the uses permitted by
the corresponding general use district are not expanded, and the density of
overall development is not increased beyond the density allowed in the
corresponding general use district.
   (2)   Eligible uses. Uses allowed by right in the general use district are
eligible to be considered in the corresponding conditional district, as
modified by any conditions of approval.
   (3)   Development standards. Any proposed development within a conditional
district must meet all requirements of the corresponding general use district,
as modified by any conditions of approval.
   (4)   Submittal of site plan. This zoning option is intended only for
development proposals that are ready to proceed from plan approval to
construction in a timely manner. As a result, each project must include a site
plan that meets the site plan requirements listed in this ordinance as modified
by any site specific conditions.
   (5)   Relationship to overlay district standards. Regulations applicable in
an overlay zoning district shall apply to a conditional zoning district. If the
standards governing a conditional zoning district expressly conflict with those
governing an overlay district, the more restrictive standards shall apply.
   (e)   Revisions to approved conditional zonings. Except as allowed under
minor modifications below, all changes to approved conditional zonings are
major amendments and shall follow the same process applicable for the original
approval.
   (1)   Changes to individual parcels within a conditional zoning district.
For a conditional zoning district applicable to multiple parcels, the owners of
individual parcels may apply for minor modification or major amendment so long
as the change would not result in other properties failing to meet the terms of
the conditions. Any approved changes shall only be applicable to those
properties whose owners petitioned for the change.
   (2)   Minor modifications. The planning director is authorized to review and
approve administratively a minor modification to an approved conditional
zoning, subject to the following limitations. The minor modification:
      a.   Does not involve a change in uses permitted or the density of
overall development permitted;
      b.   Does not increase the impacts generated by the development on
traffic, stormwater runoff, or similar impacts beyond what was projected for
the original development approval; and
      c.   Meets all other ordinance requirements.
      d.   Site design minor modifications are limited adjustments to the terms
or design of an approved development plan or plat, including a site plan
attached as a condition to a conditional zoning. In addition to the general
limitations for minor modifications, a site design minor modification must
comply with underlying zoning standards and other applicable conditions of the
approval and be limited to a minor change such as, without limitation, a minor
adjustment to road configuration or internal circulation, a minor adjustment to
building location, or a minor adjustment to utility alignment.
   (3)   Appeals and variances. A decision on a minor modification may be
appealed to the board of adjustment as an administrative determination. An
application for a minor modification does not preclude an applicant from
seeking a variance from the board of adjustment.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 16.2; Amend. of - - )
Sec. 14-653. - Procedures.
   (a)   Board of commissioners acceptance of requests. On receipt of an
amendment request as provided in section
14-652, the board of commissioners may set a legislative public hearing on the
request. If the board of commissioners sets a date for a legislative public
hearing on a proposed amendment, it shall also refer the proposed amendment to
the planning director and planning board for their consideration.
   (b)   Application submittal requirements. Applications for amendments to
this chapter, as provided in section
14-652, shall be filed with the planning director. The planning director shall
prescribe the form on which applications are made. Applications shall include
the name and address of the owner of each zoning lot involved, and the
relationship of the applicant and property owner in connection with the
application. If the applicant or property owner is an entity other than an
individual, the application shall also include detailed information regarding
the principals of the entity. The planning director shall prescribe any other
material that may reasonably be required to determine compliance with this
chapter, with sufficient copies for necessary referrals and records. No
application shall be accepted by the planning director unless it complies with
such requirements. Applications which are not complete shall be returned
forthwith to the applicant, with a notation of the deficiencies in the
application.
   (c)   Planning director's report. When an amendment request is referred to
the planning director or when he accepts an application for amendment, the
planning director shall cause appropriate officials to determine if it conforms
with the intent of this chapter and shall complete his report within 15 working
days of the board of commissioners' referral of an amendment request or the
acceptance of a complete application, and shall submit his report at the next
regularly scheduled meeting of the planning board or within further time
consented to by written notice from the applicant or by board of commissioner
resolution. The time limits of this subsection for the planning director's
review shall not apply to applications for rezoning to a conditional use
district.
   (d)   Planning board review. The planning board shall review the request or
application and the planning director's report and recommendations, and shall
submit a written recommendation to the board of commissioners. The planning
board shall advise and comment on whether the proposed action is consistent
with the comprehensive plan that has been adopted and any other officially
adopted plan that is applicable. The planning board shall provide a written
recommendation to the governing board that addresses plan consistency and other
matters as deemed appropriate by the planning board, but a comment by the
planning board that a proposed amendment is inconsistent with the comprehensive
plan shall not preclude consideration or approval of the proposed amendment by
the governing board. If a zoning map amendment qualifies as a large-scale
rezoning under G.S. 160D-602(b), the planning board statement describing plan
consistency may address the overall rezoning and describe how the analysis and
policies in the relevant adopted plans were considered in the recommendation
made. The planning board shall prepare its recommendation within 35 days of the
meeting at which the planning director's report is submitted to the planning
board and shall forward its recommendation to the board of commissioners at the
commissioner's next available public hearing scheduled for amendment
applications or within such further time consented to in writing by the
applicant or by board of commissioners resolution.
   (e)   Legislative public hearing. After it receives the planning director's
report and the planning board's recommendation, the board of commissioners
shall hold a legislative public hearing on the application of the next
available regularly scheduled public hearing for amendment applications in
order to receive comments, testimony and exhibits pertaining to the
application. The board of commissioners shall adopt a schedule of public
hearings by resolution.
   (f)   Public notice. Notice of the date, time, and place of the public
hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the
planning jurisdiction once a week for two consecutive weeks, with the first
notice to be published not less than ten nor more than 25 days prior to the
date of the public hearing.
   (1)   Mailed notice. For zoning map amendments, the owners of affected
parcels of land and the owners of all parcels of land abutting that parcel of
land shall be mailed a notice of the hearing on a proposed zoning map amendment
by first-class mail at the last addresses listed for such owners on the county
tax abstracts. For the purpose of this section, properties are "abutting" even
if separated by a street, railroad, or other transportation corridor. This
notice must be deposited in the mail at least ten but not more than 25 days
prior to the date of the hearing.
   (2)   Optional notice for large-scale zoning map amendments. The first-class
mail notice required under subsection (1) of this section is not required if
the zoning map amendment proposes to change the zoning designation of more than
50 properties, owned by at least 50 different property owners, and the county
elects to use the expanded published notice provided for in this subsection. In
this instance, the county may elect to make the mailed notice provided for in
subsection (1) of this section or, as an alternative, elect to publish notice
of the hearing as required by G.S. 160D-601, provided that each advertisement
shall not be less than one-half of a newspaper page in size. The advertisement
is effective only for property owners who reside in the area of general
circulation of the newspaper that publishes the notice. Property owners who
reside outside of the newspaper circulation area, according to the address
listed on the most recent property tax listing for the affected property, shall
be notified according to the provisions of subsection (1) of this section.
   (3)   Posted notice. When a zoning map amendment is proposed, the county
shall prominently post a notice of the hearing on the site proposed for the
amendment or on an adjacent public street or highway right-of-way. The notice
shall be posted within the same time period specified for mailed notices of the
hearing. When multiple parcels are included within a proposed zoning map
amendment, a posting on each individual parcel is not required but the local
government shall post sufficient notices to provide reasonable notice to
interested persons.
   (g)   Planning director's report. After completion of the legislative public
hearing, the planning director and county attorney shall review the record of
the public hearing and the planning director shall prepare and submit to the
board of commissioners a written report containing findings as to conformity
with the intent of this chapter and a recommendation for action. Such report
shall be submitted to the board of commissioners within 35 days after
completion of the public hearing, or within further time as may be consented to
in written notice from the applicant or by board of commissioner resolution.
   (h)   Board of commissioners' action. The board of commissioners shall
review the application or request for amendment, the record of the public
hearing, the planning board's recommendation and the planning director's
report, and shall approve, or deny the application or request based on its
findings as to conformity with the intent of this chapter.
   (1)   Plan consistency review. When adopting or rejecting any zoning text or
map amendment, the board of commissioners shall approve a brief statement
describing whether its action is consistent or inconsistent with the adopted
comprehensive plan. If a zoning map amendment is adopted and the action was
deemed inconsistent with the adopted plan, the zoning amendment shall have the
effect of also amending any future land-use map in the approved plan, and no
additional request or application for a plan amendment shall be required.
      a.   A plan amendment and a zoning amendment may be considered
concurrently. The plan consistency statement is not subject to judicial review.
      b.   If a zoning map amendment qualifies as a large-scale rezoning under
G.S. 160D-602(b), the governing board statement describing plan consistency may
address the overall rezoning and describe how the analysis and policies in the
relevant adopted plans were considered in the action taken.
   (2)   Additional reasonableness statement for rezonings. When adopting or
rejecting any petition for a zoning map amendment, a statement analyzing the
reasonableness of the proposed rezoning shall be approved by the board of
commissioners. This statement of reasonableness may consider, among other
factors, the following:
      a.   The size, physical conditions, and other attributes of the area
proposed to be rezoned;
      b.   The benefits and detriments to the landowners, the neighbors, and
the surrounding community;
      c.   The relationship between the current actual and permissible
development on the tract and adjoining areas and the development that would be
permissible under the proposed amendment;
      d.   Why the action taken is in the public intrest; and
      e.   Any changed conditions warranting the amendment.
         If a zoning map amendment qualifies as a large-scale rezoning under
G.S. 160D-602(b), the governing board statement on reasonableness may address
the overall rezoning.
   (3)   Single statement permissible. The statement of reasonableness and the
plan consistency statement required by this section may be approved as a single
statement.
   (i)   Effect of denial or withdrawal on subsequent applications. When the
board of commissioners shall have denied an application for amendment or the
application shall have been withdrawn, by written notice, after publication of
the first public hearing notice required in subsection (e) of this section, the
planning director shall not accept another application for the same or similar
amendment affecting the same property or a portion thereof, until the
expiration of a 12-month period extending from the date of denial or
withdrawal, as appropriate.
   (j)   Amended applications. If the applicant proposes any substantial
changes to the application subsequent to acceptance of the application, an
amended application shall be submitted and reviewed as an original application.
   (k)   Actions subsequent to decision. The planning director shall cause
notice of the disposition of the application to be sent to the applicant and
shall cause a copy of the decision to be filed in the office of the planning
department.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 16.3; Amend. of 12-1-2008; Amend. - - )
Sec. 14-654. - Site development plan.
   In accordance with General Statutes, approval of a special use permit shall
constitute approval of a site specific vesting plan. Such approval shall
establish a vested property right within the meaning of G.S. 160D-108.1 that
expires two years after the date of the board of commissioners or planning
board approval, where appropriate, if no building permit application has been
filed. Such vested right shall only preclude subsequent ordinance changes
affecting the type and intensity of development on the property for which the
right has vested.
(Ord. of 7-10-2000, § 16.4; Amend. of - - )
Secs. 14-655—14-680. - Reserved.
ARTICLE XII. EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
   Sec.
14-681.   Title.
   Sec.
14-682.   Purpose.
   Sec.
14-683.   Definitions.
   Sec.
14-684.   Scope and exclusions.
   Sec.
14-685.   Mandatory standards for land-disturbing activities.
   Sec.
14-686.   Erosion and sedimentation control plans.
   Sec.
14-687.   Basic control objectives.
   Sec.
14-688.   Design and performance standards.
   Sec.
14-689.   Storm water outlet protection.
   Sec.
14-690.   Borrow and waste areas.
   Sec.
14-691.   Access and haul roads.
   Sec.
14-692.   Operations in lakes or natural watercourses.
   Sec.
14-693.   Responsibility for maintenance.
   Sec.
14-694.   Additional measures.
   Sec.
14-695.   Existing uncovered areas.
   Sec.
14-696.   Fees.
   Sec.
14-697.   Plan appeals.
   Sec.
14-698.   Inspections and investigations.
   Sec.
14-699.   Penalties.
   Sec.
14-700.   Injunctive relief.
   Sec.
14-701.   Restoration after non-compliance.
Sec. 14-681. - Title.
   This article may be cited as the Johnston County Soil Erosion and
Sedimentation Control Ordinance.
(Ord. of 6-3-2013; Amend. of 12-13-2023)
Sec. 14-682. - Purpose.
   This article is adopted for the purposes of:
   (a)   Regulating certain land-disturbing activity to control accelerated
erosion and sedimentation in order to prevent the pollution of water and other
damage to lakes, watercourses, and other public and private property by
sedimentation; and
   (b)   Establishing procedures through which these purposes can be fulfilled.
(Ord. of 6-3-2013; Amend. of 12-13-2023)
Sec. 14-683. - Definitions.
   As used in this article, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the
following definitions apply:
   Accelerated erosion means any increase over the rate of natural erosion as a
result of land-disturbing activity.
   Act means the North Carolina Sedimentation Pollution Control Act of 1973 and
all rules and orders adopted pursuant to it.
   Adequate erosion control measure, structure, or device means one which
controls the soil material within the land area under responsible control of
the person conducting the land-disturbing activity.
   Affiliate means a person that directly, or indirectly through one or more
intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control of
another person.
   Approving authority means Johnston County, as the government agency that has
been delegated erosion and sedimentation plan review responsibilities in
accordance with the provisions of the Act.
   Being conducted means a land-disturbing activity has been initiated and
permanent stabilization of the site has not been completed.
   Borrow means fill material which is required for on-site construction and is
obtained from other locations.
   Buffer zone means the strip of land adjacent to a lake or natural
watercourse. In this section of the ordinance, buffer zone does NOT mean the
same as riparian buffer zone found in Article VII Section
14-393.
   Commission means the North Carolina Sedimentation Control Commission.
   Common plan of development means a contiguous area where multiple separate
and distinct land disturbing activities may be taking place at different times
and on different schedules under one common plan. The “common plan” of
development or sale is broadly defined as any announcement or piece of
documentation indicating construction activities are planned to occur on a
specific plot regardless of ownership of the parcels.
   Completion of construction or development means that no further land-
disturbing activity is required on a phase of a project except that which is
necessary for establishing a permanent ground cover.
   Department means the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural
Resources.
   Director means the Director of the Division of Energy, Mineral, and Land
Resources of the Department of Environment and Natural Resources.
   Discharge point means that point at which storm water runoff leaves a tract
of land where a land-disturbing activity has occurred or enters a lake or
natural watercourse.
   Energy dissipator means a structure or a shaped channel section with
mechanical armoring placed at the outlet of pipes or conduits to receive and
break down the energy from high velocity flow.
   Erosion means the wearing away of land surfaces by the action of wind,
water, gravity, or any combination thereof.
   Ground cover means any natural vegetative growth or other material which
renders the soil surface stable against accelerated erosion.
   High quality waters means those classified as such in 15A NCAC 2B.0101(e)
(5) - General Procedures, which is incorporated herein by reference to include
further amendments pursuant to G.S. 150B-14(c).
   High Quality Water (HQW) Zones means areas within one mile and draining to
HQW's.
   Lake or natural watercourse means any stream, river, brook, swamp, sound,
bay, creek, run, branch, canal, waterway, estuary, and any reservoir, lake or
pond, natural or impounded in which sediment may be moved or carried in
suspension, and which could be damaged by accumulation of sediment.
   Land-disturbing activity means any use of the land by any person in
residential, industrial, education, institutional, or commercial development,
highway and road construction and maintenance that results in a change in the
natural cover or topography and that may cause or contribute to sedimentation.
   Limits of disturbance means the outermost boundary of proposed disturbance
on a development.
   Local government  means any county, incorporated village, town or city, or
any combination of counties, incorporated villages, towns, and cities, acting
through a joint program pursuant to the provisions of the Act.
   Natural erosion means the wearing away of the earth's surface by water,
wind, or other natural agents under natural environmental conditions
undisturbed by man.
   Parent means an affiliate that directly, or indirectly through one or more
intermediaries, controls another person.
   Person means any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture,
public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or
private institution, utility, cooperative, interstate body, or other legal
entity.
   Person conducting land-disturbing activity means any person who may be held
responsible for violation unless expressly provided otherwise by this article,
the
Act, or any order adopted pursuant to this article or the Act.
   Person responsible for the violation means:
   (1)   The developer or other person who has or holds himself out as having
financial or operation control over the land- disturbing activity; or
   (2)   The landowner or person in possession or control of the land that has
directly or indirectly allowed the land- disturbing activity, or benefited from
it or failed to comply with a duty imposed by any provision of this article,
the Act, or any order adopted pursuant to this article or the Act.
   Phase of grading plan means a proposed erosion control plan for initial
clearing and grubbing (rough grading) or final grading (fine grading).
   Plan means an erosion and sedimentation control plan.
   Sediment means solid particulate matter, both mineral and organic, that has
been or is being transported by water, air, gravity, or ice from its site of
origin.
   Sedimentation means the process by which sediment resulting from accelerated
erosion has been or is being transported off the site of the land-disturbing
activity or into a lake or natural watercourse.
   Siltation means sediment resulting from accelerated erosion which is
settleable or removable by properly designed, constructed, and maintained
control measures; and which has been transported from its point of origin
within the site of a land-disturbing activity; and which has been deposited, or
is in suspension in water.
   Storm drainage facilities means the system of inlets, conduits, channels,
ditches and appurtenances which serve to collect and convey storm water through
and from a given drainage area.
   Stormwater manager means the personnel within the Johnston County Public
Utilities Department whose job responsibility includes the administration and
enforcement of the Johnston County Erosion and Sediment Control Ordinance.
   Stormwater runoff means the surface flow of water resulting from
precipitation in any form and occurring immediately after rainfall or melting.
   Subsidiary means an affiliate that is directly, or indirectly through one or
more intermediaries, controlled by another person.
   Ten-year storm means the stormwater runoff resulting from precipitation of
an intensity expected to be equaled or exceeded, on the average, once in ten
years, and of a duration which will produce the maximum peak rate of runoff for
the watershed of interest under average antecedent wetness conditions.
   Tract means a parcel of land or contiguous combination thereof and bodies of
water being disturbed or to be disturbed as a unit, regardless of ownership.
   Twenty-five year storm means the storm water runoff resulting from
precipitation of an intensity expected to be equaled or exceeded on the
average, once in 25 years, and of a duration which will produce the maximum
peak rate of runoff for the watershed of interest under average antecedent
wetness conditions.
   Uncovered means the removal of ground cover from, on, or above the soil
surface.
   Undertaken means the initiating of any activity, or phase of activity, which
results or will result in a change in the ground cover or topography of a tract
of land.
   Velocity means the speed of flow through a cross section perpendicular to
the direction of the main channel at the peak flow of the storm of interest but
not exceeding bank full flows.
   Waste means surplus materials resulting from on-site land-disturbing
activities and being disposed of at other locations.
   Working days means days exclusive of Saturday and Sunday during which
weather conditions or soil conditions permit land-disturbing activity to be
undertaken.
(Ord. of 6-3-2013; Amend. of 12-13-2023)
Sec. 14-684. - Scope and exclusions.
   (a)   Geographical scope of regulated land-disturbing activity. This article
shall apply to land-disturbing activity within the territorial jurisdiction of
Johnston County and to the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the towns as
allowed by agreement between local governments or other appropriate legal
instrument or law.
   (b)   Exclusions from regulated land-disturbing activity. Notwithstanding
the general applicability of this article to all land-disturbing activity, this
article shall not apply to the following types of land-disturbing activity:
      (1)   Any activity, including breeding and grazing of livestock,
undertaken on agricultural land for the production of plants and animals useful
to man, including, but not limited to:
         a.   Forage and sod crops, grain and feed crops, tobacco, cotton, and
peanuts.
         b.   Dairy animals and dairy products.
         c.   Poultry and poultry products.
         d.   Livestock, including beef cattle, sheep, swine, horses, ponies,
mules, and goats.
         e.   Bees and apiary products.
         f.   Fur producing animals.
         g.   Mulch, ornamental plants, and other horticultural products. For
purposes of this section, “mulch” means substances composed primarily of plant
remains or mixtures of such substances.
      (2)   An activity undertaken on forestland for the production and
harvesting of timber and timber products and conducted in accordance with best
management practices set out in Forest Practice Guidelines Related to Water
Quality, as adopted by the department. If land-disturbing activity undertaken
on forestland for the production and harvesting of timber and timber products
is not conducted in accordance with Forest Practice Guidelines Related to Water
Quality, the provisions of this article shall apply to such activity and any
related land-disturbing activity on the tract.
      (3)   An activity for which a permit is required under the Mining Act of
1971, Article 7 of Chapter 74 of the General Statutes.
      (4)   A land-disturbing activity over which the State has exclusive
regulatory jurisdiction as provided in G.S. 113A-56(a).
      (5)   An activity which is essential to protect human life during an
emergency.
      (6)   Activities undertaken to restore the wetland functions of converted
wetlands to provide compensatory mitigation to offset impacts permitted under
Section 404 of the Clean Water Act.
      (7)   Activities undertaken pursuant to Natural Resources Conservation
Service standards to restore the wetlands functions of converted wetlands as
defined in Title 7 Code of Federal Regulations § 12.2
   (c)   Plan approval requirement for land-disturbing activity. No person
shall undertake any land-disturbing activity subject to this article without
first obtaining a plan approval therefor from Johnston County.
   (d)   Protection of property. Persons conducting land-disturbing activity
shall take all reasonable measures to protect all public and private property
from damage caused by such activity.
   (e)   More restrictive rules shall apply. Whenever conflicts exist between
federal, state, or local laws, ordinance, or rules, the more restrictive
provision shall apply.
   (f)   Plan approval exceptions. Notwithstanding the general requirement to
obtain a plan approval prior to undertaking land-disturbing activity, a plan
approval shall not be required for land-disturbing activity that does not
exceed one acre (43,560 square feet) in surface area, or less than one acre but
not a part of a larger common plan of development. In determining the area,
lands under one or diverse ownership being developed as a unit will be
aggregated.
(Ord. of 6-3-2013; Amend. of 12-13-2023)
Sec. 14-685. - Mandatory standards for land-disturbing activities.
   No land-disturbing activity subject to the control of this article shall be
undertaken except in accordance with the following mandatory standards:
   (a)   Standard buffer. No land-disturbing activity during periods of
construction or improvement to land shall be permitted in proximity to a lake
or natural watercourse unless a buffer zone is provided along the margin of the
watercourse of sufficient width to confine visible siltation within the 25
percent of the buffer zone nearest the land-disturbing activity.
      (1)   Projects on, over or under water.  This subdivision shall not apply
to a land-disturbing activity in connection with the construction of facilities
to be located on, over, or under a lake or natural watercourse.
      (2)   Buffer measurement. Unless otherwise provided, the width of a
buffer zone is measured horizontally from the edge of the water to the nearest
edge of the disturbed area, with the 25 percent of the strip nearer the land-
disturbing activity containing natural or artificial means of confining visible
siltation.
   (b)   Graded slopes and fills. The angle for graded slopes and fills shall
be no greater than the angle that can be retained by vegetative cover or other
adequate erosion control devices or structures and is able to be maintained
long term. In any event, slopes left exposed will, within 14 calendar days of
completion of any phase of grading, be planted or otherwise provided with
temporary or permanent ground cover, devices, or structures sufficient to
restrain erosion. The angle for graded slopes and fills must be demonstrated to
be stable. Stable is the condition where the soil remains in its original
configuration, with or without mechanical constraints.
   (c)   Fill material. Unless a permit from the Department's Division of Waste
Management to operate a landfill is on file for the official site, acceptable
fill material shall be free of organic or other degradable materials, masonry,
concrete and brick in sizes exceeding 12 inches, and any materials which would
cause the site to be regulated as a landfill by the State of North Carolina.
   (d)   Ground cover. Whenever land-disturbing activity that will disturb more
than one acre or less than one acre if part of a larger common plan of
development is undertaken for development, the person conducting the land-
disturbing activity shall install erosion and sedimentation control devices and
practices that are sufficient to retain the sediment generated by the land
disturbing activity within the boundaries of the tract during construction upon
and development of said tract, and shall plant or otherwise provide a permanent
ground cover sufficient to restrain erosion after completion of construction or
development. Except as provided in Section
14-685(b) of this article, provisions for a permanent ground cover sufficient
to restrain erosion must be accomplished within 90 calendar days following
completion of construction or development.
    (e)   Prior plan approval. No person shall initiate any land-disturbing
activity that will disturb more than one acre or less than one acre if part of
a larger common plan of development unless, 30 or more days prior to initiating
the activity, a plan for the activity is filed with and approved by Johnston
County. The County shall forward to the Director of the Division of Water
Resources a copy of each plan for a land-disturbing activity that involves the
utilization of ditches for the purpose of de-watering or lowering the water
table of the tract.
   (f)   The land-disturbing activity shall be conducted in accordance with the
approved erosion and sedimentation control plan.
(Ord. of 6-3-2013; Amend. of 12-13-2023)
Sec. 14-686. - Erosion and sedimentation control plans.
   (a)   Applicability. Except as provided in Section
14-684(b), it is unlawful to conduct any land disturbing activity that will
result in the disturbance of land equal to or greater than one acre, or that
will result in the land disturbance of less than one acre if part of a larger
common plan of development or sale, including without limitation a subdivision,
until an erosion and sedimentation control plan has been issued by the County.
A project may be developed in phases with separate erosion and sedimentation
control plans and land disturbing permits for each phase.
   (b)   Plan submission. The applicant must provide to the Johnston County
Stormwater Manager or designee the number of copies of the Plan as prescribed
by the Stormwater Manager at least 30 days prior to the commencement of the
proposed activity.
   (c)   Plan contents. The plan required by this section must contain at least
all of the items specified on the Johnston County Erosion and Sedimentation
Control Checklist, including an application, administrative fees; architectural
and engineering drawings; maps; assumptions; calculations; and narrative
statements as needed to adequately describe the proposed development of the
tract and the measures planned to comply with the erosion and sedimentation
control regulations of this article.
   (d)   Financial responsibility and ownership. The erosion and sediment
control plan must include an authorized statement of financial responsibility
and documentation of property ownership that complies with following:
      (1)    Is signed by the financially responsible party for the land-
disturbing activity or his attorney in fact, including the mailing and street
addresses of the principal place of business of the person financially
responsible, the owner of the land, and any registered agents;
      (2)   If the person financially responsible is not a resident of North
Carolina, a North Carolina agent must be designated in the statement for the
purpose of receiving notice of compliance or non-compliance with the Plan, the
Act, this article, or rules or orders adopted or issued pursuant to this
article;
      (3)   If the applicant is not the owner of the land to be disturbed, the
erosion and sedimentation control plan must include the owner's written consent
for the applicant to submit an erosion and sedimentation control plan and to
conduct the anticipated land-disturbing activity.
   (e)   Environmental Policy Act Document. Any plan submitted for a land-
disturbing activity for which an environmental document is required by the
North Carolina Environment Policy Act (G.S. 113A-1, et seq.) shall be deemed
incomplete until a complete environmental document is available for review.
Johnston County shall promptly notify the person submitting the plan that the
30-day time limit for review of the plan pursuant to this article shall not
begin until a complete environmental document is available for review.
   (f)   Timeline for decisions on plans. Johnston County will review each
complete plan submitted within 30 days of receipt by the Stormwater Manager
will notify the person submitting the plan that it has been approved, approved
with modifications, or disapproved. Failure to approve, approve with
modifications, or disapprove a complete plan within 30 days of receipt shall be
deemed approved. Johnston County shall review revised plan submittals within 15
days of receipt of the revised plan.
   (g)   Approval. Johnston County shall only approve a plan upon determining
that it complies with all applicable state and local regulations for erosion
and sedimentation control. Approval assumes the applicant's compliance with the
federal and state water quality laws, regulations and rules.
      (1)   If no construction activity has begun within three years from the
date of permit issuance, the permit becomes null and void.
      (2)   If the County determines, either upon review of an approved plan or
upon inspection of the development site, that the plan is inadequate to meet
the requirements of the Act or this ordinance, the County shall require a
revised plan. Pending the preparation of the revised plan, work shall cease or
shall continue under conditions outlined by the County.
   (h)   Disapproval for content. The County shall disapprove a plan based on
its content. A disapproval based upon a plan's content must specifically state
in writing the reasons for disapproval.
   (i)   Other disapprovals. The County may disapprove a plan if:
      (1)   Implementation of the plan would result in a violation of the rules
adopted by the Environmental Management Commission to protect riparian buffers
along surface waters;
      (2)   The applicant is conducting or has conducted land-disturbing
activity without an approved Plan, or has received notice of violation on a
previously approved erosion and sedimentation control plan and has not complied
with the notice within the time specified in the notice;
      (3)   The applicant has failed to pay a civil penalty assessed pursuant
to the Act or a local ordinance adopted pursuant to the Act by the time the
payment is due.
      (4)   The applicant has been convicted of a misdemeanor pursuant to G.S.
113A-64(b) or any criminal provision of a local ordinance adopted pursuant to
the Act or;
      (5)   The applicant has failed to substantially comply with state rules
or local ordinances and regulations adopted pursuant to the North Carolina
Sedimentation Pollution Control Act.
In the event that a plan is disapproved pursuant to this subsection and
disapproved after the appeal process established in Section 14-697, the County
shall notify the Director of the North Carolina State Division of Energy,
Mineral, and Land Resources of such disapproval within ten days. The County
shall advise the applicant or the proposed transferee and the Director in
writing as to the specific reasons that the plan was disapproved.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section
14-697(a), the applicant may appeal the local government's disapproval of the
plan directly to the Commission.
For purposes of this subsection, an applicant's record or the proposed
transferee's record may be considered for only the two years prior to the
application date.
   (j)   Transfer of plans. The County may transfer an erosion and
sedimentation control plan approved pursuant to this section without the
consent of the plan holder to a successor-owner of the property on which the
permitted activity is occurring or will occur as provided in this subsection.
      (1)   The County may transfer a plan if all of the following conditions
are met:
         a.   The successor-owner of the property submits to the County a
written request for the transfer of the plan and an authorized statement of
financial responsibility and documentation of property ownership.
         b.   The County finds all of the following:
            1.   The plan holder is one of the following:
               i.   A natural person who is deceased.
               ii.   A partnership, limited liability corporation, corporation,
or any other business association that has been dissolved.
               iii.   A person who has been lawfully and finally divested of
title to the property on which the permitted activity is occurring or will
occur.
               iv.   A person who has sold the property on which the permitted
activity is occurring or will occur.
            2.   The successor-owner holds title to the property on which the
permitted activity is occurring or will occur.
            3.   The successor-owner is the sole claimant of the right to
engage in the permitted activity.
            4.   There will be no substantial change in the permitted activity.
         c.   The plan approval permit transfer fee has been received.
      (2)   The plan holder shall comply with all terms and conditions of the
plan until such time as the plan is transferred.
      (3)   The successor-owner shall comply with all terms and conditions of
the plan once the plan has been transferred.
   (k)   Notice of activity initiation. No person may initiate a land-
disturbing activity before notifying the County that issued the plan approval
of the date that land-disturbing activity will begin.
   (l)   Preconstruction conference. Preconstruction conferences are required
with the approving authority for new projects and must be held prior to
beginning land disturbing activities. However, preconstruction conferences are
not required for single family residential lot level erosion control plans,
where a preconstruction conference was held for the overall development plans.
    (m)   Display of plan approval. A plan approval issued under this article
shall be prominently displayed until all construction is complete, all
permanent sedimentation and erosion control measures are installed and the site
has been stabilized. A copy of the approved plan shall be kept on file at the
job site.
    (n)   Required revisions. After approving a plan, if the County either upon
review of such plan or on inspection of the job site, determines that a
significant risk of accelerated erosion or off-site sedimentation exists, the
County shall require a revised plan. Pending the preparation of the revised
plan, work shall cease or shall continue under conditions outlined by the
appropriate authority. If following commencement of a land-disturbing activity
pursuant to an approved plan, the County determines that the plan is inadequate
to meet the requirements of this article, the County may require any revision
of the plan that is necessary to comply with this article.
    (o)   Amendment to a plan. Applications for amendment of a plan in written
and/or graphic form may be made at any time under the same conditions as the
original application. Until such time as said amendment is approved by the
County, the land-disturbing activity shall not proceed except in accordance
with the plan as originally approved.
   (p)   Failure to file a plan. Any person engaged in land-disturbing activity
who fails to file a plan in accordance with this article, or who conducts a
land-disturbing activity except in accordance with provisions of an approved
plan shall be deemed in violation of this article.
   (q)   Inspections and records.  The landowner, the financially responsible
party, or the landowner's or the financially responsible party's agent shall
perform an inspection of the area covered by the plan after each phase of the
plan has been completed and after establishment of temporary ground cover in
accordance with G.S. 113A-57(2). The person who performs the inspection shall
maintain and make available a record of the inspection at the site of the land-
disturbing activity. The record shall set out any significant deviation from
the approved erosion control plan, identify any measures that may be required
to correct the deviation, and document the completion of those measures. The
record shall be maintained until permanent ground cover has been established as
required by the approved erosion and sedimentation control plan. The
inspections required by this subsection shall be in addition to inspections
required by G.S. 113A-61.1. The person who performs the inspection shall
maintain and make available a record of the inspection at the site of the land-
disturbing activity. The record shall set out any significant deviation from
the approved erosion control plan, identify any measures that may be required
to correct the deviation, and document the completion of those measures. The
record shall be maintained until permanent ground cover has been established as
required by the approved erosion and sedimentation control plan. The
inspections required by this subsection shall be in addition to inspections
required by G.S. 113A-61.1.
      (1)   Where inspections are required by Section
14-686(q) of this article or G.S. 113A-54.1(e), they shall be performed weekly
and after rain events.
      (2)   Documentation of self-inspections performed under item (1) of this
rule shall include:
         a.   Visual verification of ground stabilization and other erosion
control measures and practices as called for in the approved plan;
         b.   Verification by measurement of settling basins, temporary
construction entrances, energy dissipators, and traps.
         c.   The name, address, organization affiliation, telephone number,
and signature of the person conducting the inspection and the date of the
inspection shall be included, whether on a copy of the approved erosion and
sedimentation control plan or an inspection report. A template for an example
of an inspection and monitoring report is provided on the DEMLR website at:
https://deq.nc.gov/about/divisions/ energy-mineral-land-resources/erosion-
sediment-control/forms. Any relevant licenses and certifications may also be
included. Any documentation of inspections that occur on a copy of the approved
erosion and sedimentation control plan shall occur on a single copy of the plan
and that plan shall be made available on the site.
         d.   A record of any significant deviation from any erosion or
sedimentation control measure from that on the approved plan. For the purpose
of this rule, a “significant deviation” means an omission, alternation, or
relocation of an erosion or sedimentation control measure that prevents it from
performing as intended. The record shall include measures required to correct
the significant deviation, along with documentation of when those measures were
taken. Deviations from the approved plan may also be recommended to enhance the
intended performance of the sedimentation and erosion control measures.
      (3)   Except as may be required under federal law, rule or regulation, no
periodic self-inspections or rain gauge installation is required on individual
residential lots where less than one acre is being disturbed on each lot.
(Ord. of 6-3-2013; Amend. of 12-13-2023)
Sec. 14-687. - Basic control objectives.
   An erosion and sedimentation control plan may be disapproved if the plan
fails to address the following control objectives:
   (a)   Identify critical areas. On-site areas which are subject to severe
erosion, and off-site areas which are especially vulnerable to damage from
erosion and/or sedimentation, are to be identified and receive special
attention.
   (b)   Limit time of exposure. All land-disturbing activities are to be
planned and conducted to limit exposure to the shortest feasible time.
   (c)   Limit exposed areas. All land-disturbing activity is to be planned and
conducted to minimize the size of the area to be exposed at any one time.
   (d)   Control surface water. Surface water runoff originating upgrade of
exposed areas should be controlled to reduce erosion and sediment loss during
the period of exposure.
   (e)   Control sedimentation. All land-disturbing activity is to be planned
and conducted so as to prevent off-site sedimentation damage.
   (f)   Manage stormwater runoff. Plans shall be designed so that any increase
in velocity of stormwater runoff resulting from a land-disturbing activity will
not result in accelerated erosion of the receiving stormwater conveyance or at
the point of discharge. Plans shall include measures to prevent accelerated
erosion within the project boundary and at the point of discharge.
(Ord. of 6-3-2013; Amend. of 12-13-2023)
Sec. 14-688. - Design and performance standards.
   (a)   Except as provided in Section
14-688(b)(2) of this article, erosion and sedimentation control measures,
structures, and devices shall be planned, designed, and constructed to provide
protection from the calculated maximum peak rate of runoff from the ten-year
storm. Runoff rates shall be calculated using the procedures in the USDA,
NRCS’s "National Engineering Field Manual for Conservation Practices", or other
acceptable calculation procedures.
   (b)   Sediment basin design. Sediment basins shall be designed and
constructed according to the following criteria:
      (1)   Use a surface withdrawal mechanism, except when the basin drainage
area is less than 1.0 acre;
      (2)   Have a minimum of 1800 cubic feet of storage area per acre of
disturbed area;
      (3)   Have a minimum surface area of 325 square feet per cfs of the
twenty-five year storm (Q25) peak flow;
      (4)   Have a minimum dewatering time of 48 hours;
      (5)   Incorporate three baffles, unless the basin is less than 20 feet in
length, in which case two baffles shall be sufficient.
(Ord. of 6-3-2013 ; Amend. of 12-13-2023)
Sec. 14-689. - Storm water outlet protection.
   (a)   Intent. Stream banks and channels downstream from any land disturbing
activity shall be protected from increased degradation by accelerated erosion
caused by increased velocity of runoff from the land disturbing activity.
   (b)   Performance standard. Persons shall conduct land-disturbing activity
so that the post construction velocity of the ten-year storm runoff in the
receiving watercourse to the discharge point does not exceed the greater of:
      (1)   The velocity established by the Maximum Permissible Velocities
Table set out within this subsection; or
      (2)   The velocity of the ten-year storm runoff in the receiving
watercourse prior to development.
If condition (1) or (2) of this paragraph cannot be met, then the receiving
watercourse to and including the discharge point shall be designed and
constructed to withstand the expected velocity anywhere the velocity exceeds
the "prior to development" velocity by ten percent.
   Maximum Permissible Velocities Table
TThe following is a table for maximum permissible velocity for storm water
discharges in feet per second (F.P.S.) and meters per second (M.P.S.):
Material F.P. S. M.P.S.
Material                               F.P. S. M.P.S.
Fine sand (noncolloidal)               2.5     0.8
Sandy loam (noncolloidal)              2.5     0.8
Silt loam (noncolloidal)               3.0     0.9
Ordinary firm loam                     3.5     1.1
Fine gravel                            5.0     1.5
Stiff clay (very colloidal)            5.0     1.5
Graded, loam to cobbles (noncolloidal) 5.0     1.5
Graded, silt to cobbles (Colloidal)    5.5     1.7
Alluvial silts (noncolloidal)          3.5     1.1
 
[Source - Adapted from recommendations by Special Committee on Irrigation
Research, American Society of Civil Engineers, 1926, for channels with straight
alignment. For sinuous channels, multiply allowable velocity by 0.95 for
slightly sinuous, by 0.9 for moderately sinuous channels, and by 0.8 for highly
sinuous channels.]
   (c)   Acceptable management measures. Measures applied alone or in
combination to satisfy the intent of this section are acceptable if there are
no objectionable secondary consequences. The County recognizes that the
management of storm water runoff to minimize or control downstream channel and
bank erosion is a developing technology. Innovative techniques and ideas will
be considered and may be used when shown to have the potential to produce
successful results. Some alternatives, while not exhaustive, are to:
      (1)   Avoid increases in surface runoff volume and velocity by including
measures to promote infiltration to compensate for increased runoff from areas
rendered impervious;
      (2)   Avoid increases in storm water discharge velocities by using
vegetated or roughened swales and waterways in place of closed drains and high
velocity paved sections:
      (3)   Provide energy dissipators at outlets of storm drainage facilities
to reduce flow velocities to the point of discharge;
      (4)   Protect watercourses subject to accelerated erosion by improving
cross sections and/or providing erosion-resistant lining; and
      (5)   Upgrade or replace the receiving device structure, or watercourse
such that it will receive and conduct the flow to a point where it is no longer
subject to degradation from the increased rate of flow or increased velocity.
   (d)   Exceptions.  This rule shall not apply where it can be demonstrated to
the County that stormwater discharge velocities will not create an erosion
problem in the receiving watercourse.
(Ord. of 6-3-2013; Amend. of 12-13-2023)
Sec. 14-690. - Borrow and waste areas.
   When the person conducting the land-disturbing activity is also the person
conducting the borrow or waste disposal activity, areas from which borrow is
obtained and which are not regulated by the provisions of the Mining Act of
1971, and waste areas for surplus materials other than landfills regulated by
the department's Division of Waste Management shall be considered as part of
the land-disturbing activity where the borrow material is being used or from
which the waste material originated. When the person conducting the land-
disturbing activity is not the person obtaining the borrow and/or disposing of
the waste, these areas shall be considered a separate land-disturbing activity.
(Ord. of 6-3-2013; Amend. of 12-13-2023)
Sec. 14-691. - Access and haul roads.
   Temporary access and haul roads, other than public roads, constructed or
used in connection with any land-disturbing activity shall be considered a part
of such activity.
(Ord. of 6-3-2013; Amend. of 12-13-2023)
Sec. 14-692. - Operations in lakes or natural watercourses.
   Land disturbing activity in connection with construction in, on, over, or
under a lake or natural watercourse shall minimize the extent and duration of
disruption of the stream channel. Where relocation of a stream forms an
essential part of the proposed activity, the relocation shall minimize
unnecessary changes in the stream flow characteristics.
(Ord. of 6-3-2013; Amend. of 12-13-2023)
Sec. 14-693. - Responsibility for maintenance.
   During the development of a site, the person conducting the land-disturbing
activity shall install and maintain all temporary and permanent erosion and
sedimentation control measures as required by the approved plan or any
provision of this article, the Act, or any order adopted pursuant to this
article or the Act. After site development, the landowner or person in
possession or control of the land shall install and/or maintain all necessary
permanent erosion and sediment control measures, except those measures
installed within a road or street right-of-way or easement accepted for
maintenance by a governmental agency.
(Ord. of 6-3-2013; Amend. of 12-13-2023)
Sec. 14-694. - Additional measures.
   Whenever the County determines that significant erosion and sedimentation is
occurring as a result of land-disturbing activity, despite application and
maintenance of protective practices, the person conducting the land-disturbing
activity will be required to and shall take additional protective action.
(Ord. of 6-3-2013; Amend. of 12-13-2023)
Sec. 14-695. - Deleted.
Sec. 14-696. - Fees.
   (a)   The County shall establish a fee schedule for the review and approval
of plans, transfer of approved plan permits, and re-inspection fees.
   (b)   In establishing the fee schedule, the County shall consider the
administrative and personnel costs incurred for reviewing the plans, inspecting
the activity, and for related compliance activities.
(Ord. of 6-3-2013; Amend. of 12-13-2023)
Sec. 14-697. - Plan appeals.
   The appeal of a disapproval or approval with modifications of a plan shall
be governed by the following provisions:
   (a)   The disapproval or modification of any proposed plan by the County
shall entitle the person submitting the plan to a public hearing if such person
submits written demand for a hearing within 15 days after receipt of written
notice of disapproval or modifications.
   (b)   A hearing held pursuant to this section shall be conducted by the
Johnston County Director of Utilities within 30 days after receipt of the
request.
   (c)   At least seven days prior to the hearing, the Director of Utilities
must publish a notice of hearing, at least once, in a newspaper of general
circulation in the County.
   (d)   The Director of Utilities must render a decision in writing within
seven days after the hearing.
      (1)   In the event that the appeal is not granted, the Director of
Utilities must notify the director of the North Carolina Division of Energy,
Mineral, and Land Resources of the disapproval within ten days.
      (2)   The Director of Utilities must advise the applicant and the
director of the North Carolina Division of Energy, Mineral, and Land Resources
in writing as to the specific reasons the request was disapproved.
   (e)   If the Director of Utilities does not grant the appeal, the person
submitting the erosion and sedimentation control plan has 15 days following the
denial to appeal the County's decision to the North Carolina Sedimentation
Control Commission as provided in G.S. 113A-61(c) and 15A NCAC 4B .0118(d).
   (f)   If any proposed erosion and sedimentation control plan is disapproved,
the applicant may appeal County's decision directly to the North Carolina
Sedimentation Control Commission.
(Ord. of 6-3-2013; Amend. of 12-13-2023)
Sec. 14-698. - Inspections and investigations.
   (a)   Inspection. Agents, officials, or other qualified persons authorized
by the County will periodically inspect land-disturbing activities to ensure
compliance with the Act, this article, or rules or orders adopted or issued
pursuant to this article, and to determine whether the measures required in the
plan are effective in controlling erosion and sedimentation resulting from
land-disturbing activity. Notice of the right to inspect shall be included in
the certificate of approval of each plan.
   (b)   Willful resistance, delay or obstruction. No person shall willfully
resist, delay, or obstruct an authorized representative, employee, or agent of
the County while that person is inspecting or attempting to inspect a land-
disturbing activity under this section.
   (c)   Compliance tools. If the County determines that a person engaged in
land disturbing activity has failed to comply with the Act, this article, or
rules, or orders adopted or issued pursuant to this ordinance, any or all of
the following compliance tools may be used to gain compliance:
      (1)   Non-compliance inspection report.
      (2)   Notice of violation. A notice of violation shall be served upon
that person engaging in the activity. The notice may be served by any means
authorized under G.S. 1A-1, Rule 4. The notice shall specify a date by which
the person must comply with the Act, or this article, or rules, or orders
adopted pursuant to this article, and inform the person of the actions that
need to be taken to comply with the Act, this article, or rules or orders
adopted pursuant to this article. Any person who fails to comply within the
time specified is subject to additional civil and criminal penalties for a
continuing violation as provided in G.S. 113A-64 and this article.
      (3)   Withholding building permit inspections, permits, or certificates
of occupancy until compliance is obtained; and/or
      (4)   Holding final plat signatures until compliance is obtained. Sites
must be in compliance with this article prior to final plat approval.
   (d)   Investigation. The County shall have the power to conduct such
investigation as it may reasonably deem necessary to carry out its duties as
prescribed in this article, and for this purpose to enter at reasonable times
upon any property, public or private, for the purpose of investigating and
inspecting the sites of any land-disturbing activity.
   (e)   Statements and reports. The County shall also have the power to
require written statements, or filing of reports under oath, with respect to
pertinent questions relating to land-disturbing activity.
(Ord. of 6-3-2013; Amend. of 12-13-2023)
Sec. 14-699. - Penalties.
   (a)   Civil penalties
      (1)   Civil penalty for a violation. Any person who violates any of the
provisions of this article, or rule or order adopted or issued pursuant to this
article, or who initiates or continues a land-disturbing activity for which a
plan is required except in accordance with the terms, conditions, and
provisions of an approved plan, is subject to a civil penalty. The maximum
civil penalty amount that the County may assess per violation is $5,000. A
civil penalty may be assessed from the date of the violation. Each day of a
continuing violation shall constitute a separate violation.
      (2)   Civil penalty assessment factors. The County shall determine the
amount of the civil penalty based upon the following factors:
         a.   The degree and extent of harm caused by the violation,
         b.   The cost of rectifying the damage,
         c.   The amount of money the violator saved by noncompliance,
         d.   Whether the violation was committed willfully, and
         e.   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to
comply with this article.
      (3)   Notice of civil penalty assessment. The Johnston County Stormwater
Manager shall provide notice of the civil penalty amount and basis for
assessment to the person assessed.The notice of assessment shall be served by
any means authorized under G.S. 1A-1, Rule 4. A notice of assessment by the
County shall direct the violator to either pay the assessment, contest the
assessment within 30 days by filing a petition for hearing with the County
planning director, or file a request with Johnston County planning director for
remission of the assessment within 30 days of receipt of the notice of
assessment. A remission request must be accompanied by a waiver of the right to
a contested case hearing pursuant to G.S. Chapter 150B and a stipulation of the
facts on which the assessment was based.
      (4)   Hearing. A hearing on a civil penalty shall be conducted by the
Johnston County Board of Adjustment in accordance with the Johnston County Code
of Ordinance Section
14-594(b)(c).
      (5)   Final decision. The planning director shall notify the applicant of
the board's decision in writing and shall file a copy of it with the County
Planning Department and with the Johnston County Stormwater Manager.
      (6)   Appeal of final decision. A decision of the board of adjustment on
an application for appeal may be appealed to the superior court by an aggrieved
party. Such appeal shall be in the nature of certiorari and must be filed
within 30 days of the filing decision in the office of the planning department.
      (7)   Collection. If payment is not received within 30 days after it is
due, the County may institute a civil action to recover the amount of the
assessment. The civil action may be brought in the Superior Court of the county
where the violation occurred, or the violator's residence or principal place of
business is located. Such civil actions must be filed within three years of the
date the assessment was due. An assessment that is not contested is due when
the violator is served with a notice of assessment. An assessment that is
contested is due at the conclusion of the administrative and judicial review of
the assessment.
      (8)   Credit of civil penalties. The clear proceeds of civil penalties
collected by Johnston County under this subsection shall be remitted to the
Civil Penalty and Forfeiture Fund in accordance with G.S. 115C-457.2.
   (b)   Criminal penalties. Any person who knowingly or willfully violates any
provision of this article, or rule or order adopted or issued pursuant to this
article, or who knowingly or willfully initiates or continues a land-disturbing
activity for which a plan is required except in accordance with the terms,
conditions, and provisions of an approved plan, shall be guilty of a Class 2
misdemeanor which may include a fine not to exceed $5,000 as provided in G.S.
113A-64.
(Ord. of 6-3-2013; Amend. of 12-13-2023)
Sec. 14-700. - Injunctive relief.
   (a)   Violation of local program. Whenever the governing body of Johnston
County has reasonable cause to believe that any person is violating or
threatening to violate any ordinance, rule, regulation or order adopted or
issued by County, or any term, condition, or provision of an approved plan, it
may, either before or after the institution of any other action or proceeding
authorized by this article, institute a civil action in the name of the County,
for injunctive relief to restrain the violation or threatened violation. The
action shall be brought in the superior court of the county in which the
violation is occurring or is threatened.
   (b)   Abatement of violation. Upon determination by a court that an alleged
violation is occurring or is threatened, the court shall enter any order or
judgment that is necessary to abate the violation, to ensure that restoration
is performed, or to prevent the threatened violation. The institution of an
action for injunctive relief under this section shall not relieve any party to
the proceedings from any civil or criminal penalty prescribed for violations of
this article.
(Ord. of 6-3-2013; Amend. of 12-13-2023)
Sec. 14-701. - Restoration after non-compliance.
   The County may require a person who engaged in a land-disturbing activity
and failed to retain sediment generated by the activity, as required by G.S.
113A-57 (3), to restore the waters and land affected by the failure so as to
minimize the detrimental effects of the resulting pollution by sedimentation.
This authority is in addition to any other civil or criminal penalty or
injunctive relief authorized under this article.
(Ord. of 6-3-2013; Amend. of 12-13-2023)
Chapter 15 - RESERVED
Chapter 16 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
   Sec.
16-1.   County Courthouse.
   Sec.
16-2.   Carrying concealed handgun in county-owned buildings.
   Sec.
16-3.   Discharge of firearms.
   Sec.
16-4.   Public solicitation and begging regulated.
   Sec.
16-5.   Loitering.
   Sec.
16-6.   Permit requirement to beg, solicit, or panhandle on public property.
   Sec.
16-7.   Allowing the sale of alcoholic beverages before noon on Sundays at
licensed premises.
Sec. 16-1. - County Courthouse.
   By authority of G.S. 153A-45, it shall be unlawful for anyone not on
official business to be in the county courthouse after 5:00 p.m. on a working
day and at all times during the nonworking days, including holidays. A
violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor as provided in G.S.
14-4.
(Ord. of 5-2-1988; Amend. of 12-6-2021)
Sec. 16-2. - Carrying concealed handgun in county-owned buildings.
   No person shall carry a concealed handgun on or within any county-owned
building. An appropriate notice of such prohibition shall be posted in a
conspicuous place in each county-owned building notifying persons of the
prohibition against carrying a concealed handgun in county-owned buildings.
This section shall not apply to law enforcement or other government personnel
acting within the scope of their employment.
(Ord. of 11-6-1995)
   State law reference—Authority to post concealed weapons signs, G.S. 14-
415.23.
Sec. 16-3. - Discharge of firearms.
   (a)   [Application.] The provisions of this section shall apply to all
properties located outside of any municipal limits; extraterritorial
jurisdictions (ETJs) are not considered to be part of any municipal limit.
   (b)   [Definition.] For purposes of this section, firearm is defined as a
handgun, shotgun, rifle or any device which expels a projectile by action of an
explosion.
   (c)   [Violations.] It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (1)   Discharge a firearm in the county carelessly and heedlessly, so as to
endanger any person or property,
   (2)   Discharge a firearm that results in a projectile crossing the property
line of another person without the permission of the owner, or
   (3)   Discharge a firearm while under the influence of alcohol or a
controlled substance (under the influence: determination by the investigating
officer that the person is intoxicated by alcohol or a narcotic to the point
where physical and mental faculties are appreciably diminished).
   (d)   [Discharge on public streets, highways.] It shall be unlawful for any
person to discharge any firearm on, from, or across the traveled portion of any
public street or highway.
   (e)   [Prohibited times of discharge.] The discharge of firearms from two
hours after sunset to one hour before sunrise is prohibited by article II,
subsection
12-32(6) of the Johnston County Code of Ordinances.
   (f)   Miscellaneous exceptions. The following exceptions are permissible
under this section:
   (1)   Law enforcement officers or members of the armed forces acting in the
line of duty;
   (2)   The shooting or killing of any dangerous or destructive animal or
reptile when necessary to protect life or property;
   (3)   All legal hunting activities, pursuant to the North Carolina
Department of Agriculture, the North Carolina Wildlife Commission and G.S.
chapter 113, subchapter IV, as it is from time to time amended or pursuant to
lawfully issued state or federal hunting or wildlife removal permits;
   (4)   The use of firearms for defense of persons or property, as allowed
under state Law;
   (5)   Nonprofit special events such as turkey shoots with a valid local
county permit;
   (6)   Indoor firing/shooting ranges; and
   (7)   A bonafide training facility acting in the course of providing
firearms proficiency training and certification to law enforcement agencies,
private security agencies, employers of armored-car personnel (e.g. Brinks,
Loomis, and similar companies), and similar legitimate businesses that require
such certification. A "bonafide training facility" is one that is properly
authorized to provide such training and certification to North Carolina or
federal law enforcement agencies.
   (g)   Penalties. Any violation of this section is punishable as a
misdemeanor and any person convicted of the violation shall be punished as
provided in G.S. 14-4. Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter
shall be subject to a fine in the amount of $100.00 for a first offense. A
person convicted of a second or subsequent offense within one year of the first
offense shall be subject to a fine of up to $300.00 but not less than $100.00.
(Ord. of 3-7-2011; Amend. of 12-6-2021)
Sec. 16-4. Public solicitation and begging regulated.
   (a)   Definitions.
   Accosting: approaching or speaking to an individual or individuals in such a
manner as would cause a reasonable person to fear imminent bodily harm or the
commission of a criminal act upon his or her person, or upon property in his or
her immediate possession.
   Beg, solicit or panhandle: use of the spoken, written, or printed word, or
other acts as are conducted in the furtherance of the purpose of immediately
collecting contributions for the use of one's self or others. As used in
sections
16-4 through
16-6, the word "solicit," and its forms, includes begging and panhandling.
   Financial institution: any bank, industrial bank, credit union, savings and
loan, or automated teller machine.
   Forcing oneself upon the company of another.
   (1)   Continuing to solicit in close proximity to the individual addressed
after the person to whom the solicitation is directed has made a negative
response, either verbally, by physical sign, by attempting to leave the
presence of the person soliciting, or by other negative indication;
   (2)   Blocking the passage of the individual solicited; or
   (3)   Otherwise engaging in conduct that could reasonably be construed as
intending to compel or force a person to accede to a solicitation.
   (b)   Prohibited acts.
   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to beg, solicit, or panhandle, as
defined in subsection (a), above:
      a.   By accosting another, or by forcing oneself upon the company of
another;
      b.   Within 100 feet of any financial institution;
      c.   Within 20 feet of any bus stop, train station, or taxi stand;
      d.   Within 20 feet of any commercial establishment which is open for
business;
      e.   While the person being solicited is standing in line waiting to be
admitted to a commercial establishment;
      f.   By touching the person being solicited without that person's
consent;
      g.   By blocking the path of a person being solicited or blocking the
entrance or exit to any building or vehicle;
      h.   By following the person who has been solicited after that person has
declined the request or walked away;
      i.   By or with the use of threatening, profane, or abusive language,
during the solicitation or following an unsuccessful solicitation;
      j.   By or with the use of any gesture or act intended to cause a
reasonable person to be fearful of the solicitor or feel compelled to accede to
the solicitation;
      k.   Between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.;
      l.   While under the influence of alcohol or after having illegally used
any controlled substance, as defined in the North Carolina Controlled Substance
Act;
      m.   By using false or misleading information such as stating that the
donation is needed to meet a specific need which does not exist, is already
met, or when the requestor already possesses the funds necessary to meet the
stated need; or such as representing that the solicitor is a veteran when the
requestor is in fact not a veteran of the military;
      n.   By indicating that the solicitor or any member of his family suffers
from a physical or mental disability when such information is false;
      o.   Without having and displaying a valid permit as required by Section
16-6.
   (c)   Penalty. A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor as
set forth in G.S. 14-4.
(Ord. of 1-3-2012; Amend. of 12-6-2021)
   State law reference- Authority to prohibit or regulate begging, G.S. 160A-
179.
Sec. 16-5. Loitering.
   (a)   In this section, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them:
   Public place shall mean any place to which the general public has access and
a right of resort for business, entertainment or other lawful purpose, but does
not necessarily mean a place devoted solely to the uses of the public. It shall
also include the front or immediate area of any store, shop, restaurant, tavern
or other place of business and also public grounds, areas or parks.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter, loaf, wander, stand or
remain idle either alone or in consort with others in a public place with the
intent to, or in such a way as to:
   (1)   Obstruct any public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any
other public place or building by hindering or impeding or tending to hinder or
impede the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or pedestrians;
or
   (2)   Obstruct the entrance to any business establishment, without so doing
for some lawful purpose, if contrary to the expressed wish of the owner,
lessee, managing agent or person in control or charge of the building or
premises.
   When any person causes or commits any of the conditions in this section, a
police officer or any law enforcement officer shall order that person to stop
causing or committing such conditions and to move on or disperse. Any person
who fails or refuses to obey such orders shall be guilty of a violation of this
section.
   (c)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor as set
forth in G.S. 14-4.
(Ord. of 1-3-2012; Amend. of 12-6-2021)
Sec. 16-6. Permit requirement to beg, solicit, or panhandle on public property.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to beg, solicit, or panhandle
within the road rights-of-way or other public property without first obtaining
a valid permit, which shall be issued without fee by the Sheriff of Johnston
County, or his designee. A permit shall be valid for one year from the date of
issuance, or until some other date specified on the permit, or until the permit
is revoked. If a person's permit is revoked for any reason, that person shall
be ineligible for a permit for a period of two years from the date of
revocation. Any revocation of a permit may be appealed to the Sheriff, or his
designee, if the appeal is taken within ten days of notice of the revocation.
   (b)   A permittee shall keep the permit about his or her person and shall
display it at all times.
   (1)   A person is not eligible for a permit or renewal of a permit if within
the two-year period prior to application:
      a.   The applicant has one or more violations of this Chapter;
      b.   The applicant has been convicted of one or more offenses under the
law of any jurisdiction which involves either misdemeanor or felony assault,
communicating threats, illegal use of weapons, or other violent crime; or
      c.   The applicant has been convicted of one or more offenses under the
law of any jurisdiction which involves either misdemeanor or felony crimes
relating to or in the nature of larceny, embezzlement, theft, obtaining
property by false pretenses, or racketeering.
   (2)   The sheriff shall provide the licensee with a copy of this Chapter at
the time a permit is issued or renewed.
   (3)   Any person who makes any false or misleading statement while applying
for a permit is guilty of a misdemeanor. Upon receipt of information of such a
violation, the Sheriff shall decline to issue a permit to the applicant or
shall revoke the permit if already issued. The applicant or permit holder shall
thereafter be ineligible for a permit for a period of two years.
   (c)   Permit Procedure.
   (1)   The applicant shall submit an application to the Sheriff along with a
valid state-issued photo identification. The Sheriff shall perform a criminal
background check to determine eligibility of the applicant. The permit shall be
valid for one year or until disqualified or revoked.
   (2)   Any permit issued under this article is non-transferable.
   (3)   Any party who disagrees with the Sheriff's decision to deny or revoke
a permit shall have the right to an appeal to the Sheriff, if such appeal is
requested in writing or in person at the office of the Sheriff within ten days
of the denial or revocation. The Sheriff shall schedule an in-person conference
with the appealing party to be held not later than the end of business on the
second business day following the request for an appeal. The Sheriff shall
issue a final decision within 24 hours of the conclusion of the conference. A
party aggrieved by the Sheriff's final decision may appeal the decision to the
Board of Adjustment by delivering a written request for an appeal to the Clerk
of the Board of Commissioners within ten days of the Sheriff's final decision.
   (d)   As used herein, the term Sheriff shall include the Sheriff and such
person as the Sheriff may from time to time designate to act in the Sheriff's
stead for purposes of this Chapter.
   (e)   The permit requirements herein shall not apply to a person soliciting,
begging, or panhandling on private property if the solicitor has the permission
of the property owner.
   (f)   Penalty. A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor as
set forth in G.S. 14-4.
(Ord. of 1-3-2012; Amend. of 12-6-2021)
Sec. 16-7. Allowing the sale of alcoholic beverages before noon on Sundays at
licensed premises.
   Pursuant to the authority contained in G.S. 153A-145.7, the sale of malt
beverages, unfortified wine, fortified wine, and mixed beverages is allowed in
the unincorporated areas of Johnston County beginning at 10:00 a.m. on Sunday
pursuant to the licensed premises’ permit issued under G.S. 18B-1001.
(Ord. of 8-6-2018)
Chapter 17 - RESERVED
Chapter 18 - ROADS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES [18] 
   (18) Cross reference—Any ordinance related to the naming of any roads or
public way in the county saved from repeal, §
1-9(6); environment,
ch. 12; land development code,
ch. 14; zoning districts, §
14-51 et seq.; subdivisions, §
14-131 et seq.; design standards for off-street parking and loading, §
14-358; telecommunications,
ch. 22; utilities,
ch. 24.
   (18) State Law reference—Authority to regulate roads and bridges, G.S. 153A-
238 et seq.
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL
   Secs. 18-1—18-30. - Reserved.
Secs. 18-1—18-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ROADS AND BRIDGES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY
   Secs. 18-31—18-50. - Reserved.
Secs. 18-31—18-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - ROAD NAMES
   Sec.
18-51. - Existing roads.
   Sec.
18-52. - Naming roads and assigning street numbers in unincorporated areas.
   Secs. 18-53—18-70. - Reserved.
Sec. 18-51. - Existing roads.
   (a)   A list of names of the county roads that are part of the state
secondary road system are on file at the county clerk's office.
   (b)   Pursuant to G.S. 153A-240, a copy of this division and attached road
name list shall be forwarded to the department of transportation.
   (c)   Identifying street markers shall be located at each intersection of
roads throughout the county, except those areas lying within the corporate
limits of towns and private subdivisions desiring to erect and maintain their
own street sign system.
(Ord. of 1-22-1991, § 1)
Sec. 18-52. - Naming roads and assigning street numbers in unincorporated
areas.
   (a)   The county may by ordinance name or rename any road within the county
and not within a city, and may assign or reassign street numbers for use on
such road. In naming or renaming a road, the county may not:
   (1)   Change the name, if any, given to the road by the board of
transportation, unless the board of transportation agrees;
   (2)   Change the number assigned to the road by the board of transportation,
but may give the road a name in addition to its number; or
   (3)   Give the road a name that is deceptively similar to the name of any
other public road in the vicinity.
   (b)   The county shall not name or rename a road or assign or reassign
street numbers on a road until it has held a public hearing on the matter. At
least ten days before the day of the hearing, the board of commissioners shall
cause notice of the time, place and subject matter of the hearing to be
prominently posted at the county courthouse, in at least two public places in
the township or townships where the road is located, and shall publish a notice
of such hearing in a newspaper of general circulation published in the county.
After naming or renaming a road, or assigning or reassigning street numbers on
a road, the county shall cause notice of its action to be given to the local
postmaster with jurisdiction over the road, to the board of transportation, and
to any city within five miles of the road.
Secs. 18-53—18-70. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - ADDRESSES
   Sec.
18-71. - Assigned house number to be posted.
   Sec.
18-72. - Violation.
   Sec.
18-73. - Standards.
   Secs. 18-74—18-90. - Reserved.
Sec. 18-71. - Assigned house number to be posted.
   Within 90 days after written notice by the board of commissioners, its agent
or authorized contractor, of the assignment or change of a number for any
house, building, manufactured home park, or condominium complex, the owner or
occupant of such property shall be required to post the number, including any
letters, so assigned in an approved area on such property in accordance with
the requirements of section
18-73. In addition, any owner or occupant of any house, building or unit which
has been previously assigned a number shall comply with section
18-73 no later than 90 days after adoption.
(Ord. of 5-4-1992)
Sec. 18-72. - Violation.
   (a)   Violation of this division is a misdemeanor as provided by G.S. 14-
4 and may be punished as provided therein. Each day the violation continues
after the offending owner or occupant has been notified of the violation shall
constitute a separate violation of this division.
   (b)   Notice of violation of this division sufficient to allow daily
criminal penalties of subsection (a) of this section to be invoked may be given
by the county inspections division, the county emergency medical services
department, the county sheriff's department, the county fire marshall's office
or the county manager's office. Such notice must be in writing to the owner or
occupant of the dwelling or building and set forth what action is necessary in
order for the offender to be in compliance.
(Ord. of 5-4-1992)
Sec. 18-73. - Standards.
   The following shall be standards for posting of house numbers under this
division:
   (1)   The minimum height of the numbers placed on a house, building,
manufactured home lot/site, or unit shall not be less than three inches;
however, the building number of an apartment, townhouse, or condominium complex
shall be not less than six inches high and shall be placed either in the
approximate center of the building or on the street end of the building so that
it is clearly visible from either the public or private street by which it is
accessed.
   (2)   Numbers shall be displayed in numeric format, not in script.
   (3)   The house or building numbers, except in case of manufactured home
park lots/sites, shall be maintained within a three-foot perimeter of an
entrance whereby they are visible and readable from the street or road on which
it fronts. However, if a building is not visible for 100 feet from the public
street or road on which it fronts or the lot on which the building is located
is landscaped in such a manner that the numbers cannot be seen from the public
street or road, the assigned building number shall also be posted on the
property at or near the property line at a driveway entrance or access to the
structure.
   (4)   A sign displaying the property number or street address of a
manufactured home park shall be erected and displayed at the driveway entrance
of the manufactured home park. Lots or sites within the manufactured home park
shall be marked in a uniform manner within the park by placement at or near the
individual manufactured home a pedestal or post, no less than three feet nor
higher than five feet above ground level, containing the assigned number of the
individual manufactured home. If an individual mailbox is placed at the
manufactured home lot/site, the number shall be displayed on such mailbox. If a
central cluster postal box site is provided, the assigned lot/site number shall
also be displayed on the individual boxes of the cluster. If the manufactured
home rests on a permanent foundation, the structure may be marked in accordance
with subsection (3) of this section.
   (5)   The color of the numbers placed on a structure or pedestal shall be in
contrast to the color scheme of the house, building, manufactured home or
pedestal so that the number is clearly visible and shall be maintained in a
clearly visible manner. The building inspector shall not issue a certificate of
occupancy or a certificate of compliance until the assigned number is posted in
accordance with this section.
   (6)   Following the posting of the assigned number as required in section
18-71, the owner or occupant shall maintain such house or building number at
all times in compliance with the standards of this section. Building numbers
shall not be obstructed from view by shrubs or vegetation as viewed from the
public road.
(Ord. of 5-4-1992)
Secs. 18-74—18-90. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - MASS GATHERINGS [19] 
   (19) State Law reference—Mass gatherings, G.S. 130A-251 et seq.
   Sec.
18-91. - Purpose.
   Sec.
18-92. - Definitions.
   Sec.
18-93. - Penalty.
   Sec.
18-94. - Permit required; revocation of permit.
   Sec.
18-95. - Application for permit.
   Sec.
18-96. - Provisional permit; performance bond, liability insurance.
   Sec.
18-97. - Inspection; issuance of permit; revocation; forfeiture of bond;
cancellation.
   Sec.
18-98. - Standards and requirements.
   Sec.
18-99. - Conflicting and prior rules and regulations repealed.
Sec. 18-91. - Purpose.
   The intent and purpose of this article is to provide for the protection of
the public health, welfare and safety of those persons in attendance at mass
gatherings, and of those persons who reside nearby or are located in proximity
to the sites of mass gatherings or are directly affected thereby. This article
is pursuant to G.S. 153A-121 and 130A-251 et seq.
(Ord. of 4-6-1987(1), § 1)
Sec. 18-92. - Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Mass gathering means the congregation or assembly in which admission is
charged in reasonable contemplation of profit of more than 4,000 people but
less than 5,000 people for a continuous period of more than 24 hours or more
than 4,000 people for a continuous period of at least six hours but less than
24 hours. The term "mass gathering" shall include gatherings in open space,
open air, or in permanent structures or buildings designed or intended for use
by a large number of people but assemblies in a permanent building or structure
shall include only those which by reason of their size, the county health
director determines to be likely to pose a threat to public health, safety or
welfare through unsatisfactory provisions of public safety, fire and sanitary
facilities. The period of duration of the gathering or assembly shall be
interpreted as commencing when people begin to assemble on the premises and
ending when all people have left the premises.
   Permittee means any person who is issued a permit under this article by the
county health director.
(Ord. of 4-6-1987(1), § 2)
   Cross reference—Definitions generally, §
1-2.
Sec. 18-93. - Penalty.
   Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in G.S. 14-4. The county health
director may through a court of competent jurisdiction enjoin violations of
this article.
(Ord. of 4-6-1987(1), § 8)
Sec. 18-94. - Permit required; revocation of permit.
   (a)   No person shall organize, sponsor or hold any mass gatherings unless a
permit has been issued to such person by the county health director under the
provisions of this article. A permit shall be required for each mass gathering
and is not transferable to other persons.
   (b)   A permit may be revoked by the county health director at any time if
he finds that the mass gathering is being or has been maintained or operated in
violation of this article, or that prior to the mass gathering, the planning or
preparation for the mass gathering is not in compliance with this article, or
that information submitted on the permit applications has been intentionally
falsified or misrepresented or actions taken by the promoter are materially
inconsistent with such information. A permit may be revoked upon the request of
the permittee or upon abandonment of the operation. A permit will otherwise
expire upon satisfactory completion of the post-gathering cleanup following the
close of the mass gathering.
   (c)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. of 4-6-1987(1), § 3; Amend. of 12-6-2021)
Sec. 18-95. - Application for permit.
   (a)   Application for a permit for mass gatherings under this article shall
be made to the county health director on a form and in a manner prescribed by
him, by the person who will organize, sponsor or hold the mass gathering. The
application shall be filed with the county health director at least 30 days
prior to the commencement of the mass gathering. A fee in an amount set from
time to time by the board of commissioners and contained in the schedule of
fees and charges on file in the county clerk's office shall accompany the
application.
   (b)   The application shall contain the following information:
   (1)   Identification of the applicant;
   (2)   Identification of any other person responsible for organizing,
sponsoring or holding the mass gathering;
   (3)   The location of the proposed mass gathering;
   (4)   The estimated maximum number of persons reasonably expected to be in
attendance at any one time;
   (5)   The date or dates and the hours during which the mass gathering is to
be conducted; and
   (6)   A statement as to the total time period involved.
   (c)   The application shall be accompanied by an outlined map of the area to
be used, to approximate scale, showing the location of:
   (1)   All proposed and existing privies or toilets;
   (2)   Lavatory and bathing facilities;
   (3)   All water supply sources including lakes, ponds, streams, wells,
storage tanks, water taps and faucets;
   (4)   All garbage and refuse storage and disposal areas, and methods of
disposal;
   (5)   All entrances and exits to public highways; and
   (6)   Emergency ingress and egress roads.
   (d)   The application shall be accompanied by such additional plans,
reports, and information required by the county health director as he may deem
necessary to carry out the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 4-6-1987(1), § 4)
Sec. 18-96. - Provisional permit; performance bond, liability insurance.
   (a)   Within ten days after the receipt of the application, the county
health director shall review the application and inspect the proposed site for
the mass gathering. If it reasonably appears that the requirements of this
article can be met by the applicant, a provisional permit shall be issued.
   (b)   In order to protect the health, welfare and safety of those persons in
attendance at mass gatherings and of other persons who may be affected by mass
gatherings and to carry out the provisions of this article, the county health
director shall require the permittee within five days after the issuance of the
provisional permit to file with the county manager a performance bond or cash
bond or other surety to be executed to the county in an amount set from time to
time by the board of commissioners and contained in the schedule of fees and
charges on file in the county clerk's office for up to 10,000 persons and in an
amount set from time to time by the board of commissioners and contained in the
schedule of fees and charges on file in the county clerk's office for each
additional 5,000 persons or fraction thereof, reasonably estimated to attend
the mass gathering. The bond, if required, shall be conditioned on full
compliance with this article and shall be forfeitable upon noncompliance and a
showing by the county health director or county manager of any injury, damage
or extraordinary and unusual costs or other loss to the county or local
governmental agencies caused by the noncompliance. The permittee shall in
addition file satisfactory evidence of public liability and property damage
insurance in an amount determined by the county manager to be reasonable of at
least $100,000.00 but not to exceed $1,000,000.00 in relation to the risks and
hazards involved in the proposed mass gathering.
   (c)   Application for a provisional permit shall not be accepted prior to
180 days of the commencement of the event.
(Ord. of 4-6-1987(1), § 5)
Sec. 18-97. - Inspection; issuance of permit; revocation; forfeiture of bond;
cancellation.
   (a)   If, upon inspection by the county health director, 15 days prior to
the starting date of the mass gathering, or earlier upon request of the
permittee, the required facilities are found to be in place and satisfactory
arrangements are found to have been made for required services, and other
applicable provisions of this article are found to have been met, the county
health director shall issue a permit for the mass gathering. If, upon such
inspection, the facilities, arrangements, or other provisions are not
satisfactory, the provisional permit shall be revoked and no permit issued.
   (b)   Upon revocation of either the provisional permit or the mass gathering
permit, the permittee shall immediately announce cancellation of the mass
gathering, in as effective a manner as is reasonably possible, including, but
not limited to, the use of whatever methods were used for advertising or
promoting the mass gathering.
   (c)   If the provisional permit or the mass gathering permit is revoked
prior to or during the mass gathering, the county health director may order the
permittee to install such facilities and make such arrangements as may be
necessary to accommodate those persons who may nevertheless attend or be
present at the mass gathering despite its cancellation and to restore the site
to a safe and sanitary condition. If the permittee fails to comply with the
order of the county health director, the county health director may immediately
proceed to install such facilities and make such other arrangements and
provisions for cleanup as may be minimally required in the interest of public
health and safety, utilizing such county and local funds and resources as may
be available to him. Prior to or within 60 days after such action, the county
health director may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction to order
forfeiture of the permittee's performance bond or surety for violation of this
article. The court may order that the proceeds shall be applied to the extent
necessary to reimburse the county and other government agencies for
expenditures made pursuant to the action taken by the county health director
upon the permittee's failure to comply with his order. Any excess proceeds
shall be returned to the insurer of the bond or to the surety after deducting
court costs.
(Ord. of 4-6-1987(1), § 6)
Sec. 18-98. - Standards and requirements.
   The following standards and requirements are intended to protect the health,
welfare and safety of those attending mass gatherings and of other persons who
may be affected by mass gatherings. In applying these standards and
requirements to a particular mass gathering, the county health director is
authorized to apply more rigid or less rigid standards and requirements as
called for by the specific characteristics of the gathering based upon
generally recognized public health principles and practices. Any such
alteration in the prescribed standards and requirements shall be in writing and
shall be sent to the applicant. Necessary facilities and services shall be
provided, including, but not limited to, the following:
   (1)   Activity area. An activity area shall be provided of sufficient size
to accommodate the estimated number of persons reasonably expected to be in
attendance at any one time. This activity area is in addition to those areas
required for parking in subsection (7) of this section, for camping in
subsection (4) of this section, and for the command post in subsection (5) of
this section.
   (2)   Distance from dwellings. No part of the perimeter of the activity and
camping areas shall be within 1,500 feet of any residence unless the occupant
and owner have signed a written waiver. Notarized copies of such waivers shall
accompany the application.
   (3)   Distance from certain public water supply sources. No part of the
perimeters of the activities, including camping areas, shall be located within
one mile of a class I or class II reservoir, as classified by the sanitary
engineering division of the state board of health, or within three miles of a
protected watershed which drains into an A-L stream, as classified by the state
board of water and air resources, and which stream is used as a source of
public water supply.
   (4)   Camping area. When overnight camping is offered or planned for as a
part of the activities, an area of adequate size shall be provided and
designated for camping. Such area shall be in addition to the areas provided
for activities in subsection (1) and for parking in subsection (7) of this
section.
   (5)   Command post. An adequate command post at a conveniently accessible
location approved by health, law enforcement, and other governmental agencies
shall be provided for use by personnel of health, law enforcement, and other
governmental agencies. The command post shall consist of at least one building
or manufactured unit equipped with an adequate number of telephones and other
utilities, and an adequate number of parking spaces. The permittee shall ensure
access to it at all times by such governmental personnel.
   (6)   Ingress and egress road; entrances and exits. The permittee shall
provide personnel and arrangements necessary to keep entrances and exits to
public highways open to traffic at all times. He shall make arrangements with
private parties and consult with the state highway commission regarding
adequate ingress and egress roads.
   (7)   Parking. Parking facilities shall be provided off public roadways
sufficient to serve the reasonably expected requirements at a rate of one to
100 passenger cars per acre or 30 buses per acre. One parking space for cars
shall be provided for each four people to attend. Camper class vehicles shall
park in the camping area provided in subsection (4) of this section. Parking on
shoulders of public highways shall not be permitted and temporary signs shall
be erected by the applicant to so indicate.
   (8)   Plan for limiting attendance, exclusion of nonticket holders, crowd
control, and security enforcement. The application for permit shall be
accompanied by a written plan for limiting attendance to the number stated in
the application for permit, the exclusion of persons not holding tickets, and a
written plan for security enforcement, including the number of security guards
to be provided for internal and external crowd control and security
enforcement. The plan shall be accompanied by a written statement by the
sheriff that the plan seems adequate. The permittee shall execute the plan.
   (9)   Dust control. The application shall be accompanied by a written plan
for dust control. The permittee shall execute the plan.
   (10)   Fire prevention and control. The application shall be accompanied by
a written plan for fire prevention and control. The permittee shall execute the
plan.
   (11)   Plan for emergencies. The application shall be accompanied by a
written plan for dealing with emergency situations involving the occurrence of
incidents requiring rapid evacuation, including arrangements for use of
emergency egress roads. The permittee shall execute the plan.
   (12)   Provisions of adequate medical care. The application for permit shall
be accompanied by a written plan for the provision of adequate medical care,
such plan having been approved in writing by the county health director. At the
time of the inspection required by section
18-97, the structure and all supplies and equipment provided for in the plan
shall be in place; and the agreements and statements provided for in the plan
shall be determined to be valid. The plan shall include provisions for:
      a.   The name and address of a physician licensed to practice medicine in
the state to be responsible for the organization and delivery of emergency
medical services. A signed notarized statement by the physician accepting the
responsibility shall accompany the plan. He shall determine how many licensed
physicians, licensed nurses, and other medical personnel shall be on duty on
the premises at any particular time.
      b.   At least one enclosed covered structure to be used as a medical
treatment center. The structure or structures shall provide at least a total of
450 square feet unless the county health director shall determine some other
space requirement is adequate under the circumstances and the treatment center
shall have running water under pressure from an approved source.
      c.   A list of medical supplies and equipment sufficient to support
reasonable anticipated medical care requirements.
      d.   Notification of all general public hospitals within 18 miles of the
mass gathering location as to scheduled dates and anticipated attendance of the
mass gathering.
      e.   The name and address of at least one licensed ambulance service
agency to be responsible for providing emergency transportation. A signed
notarized statement by an official of the agency accepting the responsibility
shall accompany the plan. The permittee shall execute the plan.
   (13)   Water supply. 
      a.   Generally. There shall be provided a water supply from an approved
source. An approved emergency source shall be provided in addition where
necessary. Approved facilities shall be provided for distribution and
dispensing and the supply shall be adequate in quantity and quality. The
sponsor shall have in his possession, at the time of the inspection as provided
in section
18-97, the reports of bacteriological and chemical examinations of water
samples of the laboratory division of the state board of health, at the request
of the county health director when he deems it necessary. The water supply and
the facilities for distribution and dispensing shall be provided with effective
safeguards to prevent the introduction of hallucinogenic drugs or other
contamination.
      b.   Requirements. If water is to be provided only for drinking and
washing, water shall be supplied at a rate of three gallons per person per day
and a peak hour demand of one and one-half pints per person. If water is to be
provided for drinking, washing, and bathing, water shall be supplied at a rate
of 12 gallons per day per person and a peak hour demand of six pints per
person.
      c.   Source. Water shall be obtained from a public or community water
supply approved by the sanitary engineering division, state board of health and
the county board of health. If a new source of water supply is to be provided,
the approval of the county health director must be secured prior to its use. If
water is to be hauled from an off-site source, storage facilities shall be
provided in the area sufficient in volume to supply the needs of the gathering
of its duration. Before being filled with water for use during the gathering,
all such storage tanks shall be cleaned thoroughly, filled with clean water
containing a chlorine residual of at least 100 parts per million, and, after a
contact time of at least 24 hours, all such tanks shall be emptied.
Subsequently, and prior to the issuance of a permit, all such tanks shall be
closed and locked so as to give positive protection against the introduction of
contamination.
      d.   Distribution. Water outlets shall be provided at an adequate number
of convenient and readily accessible locations properly distributed throughout
the activity and camping areas.
   (14)   Toilet facilities; sewage disposal. Sanitary toilet facilities shall
be provided at an adequate number of convenient and readily accessible
locations properly distributed throughout the activity and camping areas at a
rate of not more than 100 persons per toilet seat, or as deemed necessary by
the county health director. If chemical toilet rental service is to be
employed, all toilets shall be so located as to be readily accessible by
service vehicles and shall be serviced as often as necessary. Material removed
from such toilets shall be disposed of in a public or community sewerage
system, or in a disposal trench to be constructed in the area. Each load of
material deposited in such trench shall be covered immediately with earth or
lime. At the end of each 24-hour period, the material shall be covered with a
layer of at least six inches of earth. If water-carried sewerage facilities are
provided, the sewer system shall be connected to a public or community sewer
system having wastewater treatment facilities of adequate capacity to treat the
flow of wastewater from the mass gathering; and the application shall be
accompanied by a signed statement by the state department of natural and
economic resources attesting the adequacy of the treatment facilities. A
similar statement shall accompany the application of material removed from
chemical toilets to be disposed of in a public or community sewer system. No
sewage shall be discharged to the surface of the ground or into any
watercourse.
   (15)   Solid waste collection and disposal. Facilities shall be provided for
all solid wastes to be collected and stored in leakproof, nonabsorbent
containers, and all solid wastes shall be removed daily or oftener and disposed
of in a community solid waste disposal facility or in a sanitary landfill,
compacted as densely as possible, and covered after each day of operation with
a compacted layer of at least six inches of dirt. Approved receptacles shall be
provided at places conveniently located throughout the activity, camping and
parking areas, and at each food service facility for the deposition of solid
wastes. If bulk solid waste storage containers are used, at least two, four
cubic yard, containers shall be provided per 1,000 persons in the case of once-
daily removal, and these containers shall be so located as to be accessible to
solid waste service vehicles.
   (16)   Food dispensing. If food is to be dispensed, sanitary food dispensing
facilities shall be provided at accessible and convenient locations, and shall
be maintained in a sanitary condition. Perishable food items dispensed from
such facilities shall be limited to prepackaged items, such as wrapped
sandwiches, prepared in commercial establishments and under official sanitary
supervision, and shall be dispensed in the unbroken packages; provided, that
chicken, hamburgers, and frankfurters obtained from approved sources may be
cooked and packaged at the site if all operations of preparation, cooking and
packaging in unit packages for dispensing to individuals are done inside an
approved structure or vehicle, in a sanitary manner, and otherwise in
compliance with section 9 of the Rules and Regulations Governing the Sanitation
of Restaurants and Other Foodhandling Establishments of the state board of
health. Perishable foods shall be stored at or below 45 degrees Fahrenheit, or
in the frozen sale, until heated or cooked immediately before serving.
   (17)   Insect and rodent control. There shall be no mosquito-breeding
places, rodent harborages, or undrained areas on the premises. Necessary
measures shall be taken to control flies, mosquitoes, rodents and other vermin.
   (18)   Post-gathering cleanup. Within one week after the end of the
gathering, all sanitary landfills and any trenches or pits used for sewage or
liquid waste disposal shall be covered with at least two feet of compacted
earth material; and the areas and immediate surrounding properties shall be
removed of all litter and solid wastes attributable to the mass gathering. In
addition, any signs, litter and solid wastes on roads leading from the areas
and within one mile of the areas and which can be attributed to the mass
gathering shall be removed. All solid wastes shall be disposed of as provided
in subsection (15) of this section. Unless otherwise directed by the owner of
the property, all temporary facilities, such as waste receptacles and signs,
shall be removed from the areas.
   (19)   Lighting. The application shall be accompanied by detailed plans for
lighting designed to illuminate the site if night activity is planned. The
permittee shall execute the plan.
   (20)   Signs. Signs shall be posted throughout the area showing the
locations of toilet facilities, water supply outlets, solid waste receptacles,
and food stands, if any, first aid facilities, and the command post. The
permittee shall execute the plan.
(Ord. of 4-6-1987(2), § 2)
Sec. 18-99. - Conflicting and prior rules and regulations repealed.
   All rules and regulations adopted by the state board of health, which are in
conflict with the provisions of the rules and regulations of this article, are
repealed. These regulations shall be enforceable regardless of the
applicability of other state laws and regulations, county ordinances, and local
board of health regulations.
(Ord. of 4-6-1987(2), § 3)
Chapter 19 - RESERVED
Chapter 20 - SOLID WASTE [20] 
   (20) Cross reference—Environment,
ch. 12; design standards for collection of solid waste and recyclables, §
14-361; utilities,
ch. 24.
   (20) State Law reference—Solid waste collection, G.S. 153A-291 et seq.;
authority of county to provide for the removal and disposal of garbage, trash
and debris, G.S. 153A-132.1.
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL
   Secs. 20-1—20-30. - Reserved.
Secs. 20-1—20-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL [21] 
   (21) State Law reference—Authority to regulate the collection and disposal
of solid wastes, G.S. 153A-136.
   Sec.
20-31. - Title.
   Sec.
20-32. - Purpose.
   Sec.
20-33. - Authority.
   Sec.
20-34. - Definitions.
   Sec.
20-35. - Penalties.
   Sec.
20-36. - General conditions.
   Sec.
20-37. - Solid waste disposal.
   Sec.
20-38. - Landfill operating policies.
   Sec.
20-39. - Solid waste container and recycling sites.
   Sec.
20-40. - Transportation of solid waste.
   Sec.
20-41. - Littering and unauthorized dumping.
   Secs. 20-42—20-70. - Reserved.
Sec. 20-31. - Title.
   This article shall be known and may be cited as the "Solid Waste and
Recycling Ordinance of Johnston County, North Carolina."
(Ord. of 10-4-1999, art. I)
Sec. 20-32. - Purpose.
   The purpose of this article is to regulate the storage, collection, and
disposal of solid waste in the county and also to promote the removal of
recyclable items from the solid waste stream. Unless otherwise indicated, this
article applies to both publicly-owned and privately-owned solid waste
management facilities located in the unincorporated areas of the county.
(Ord. of 10-4-1999, art. II)
Sec. 20-33. - Authority.
   The county enacts this article pursuant to G.S. ch. 130A and G.S. ch. 153A.
(Ord. of 10-4-1999, art. III)
Sec. 20-34. - Definitions.
   (a)   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article,
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Closure means the cessation of operation of a solid waste management
facility and the act of securing the facility so that it will pose no
significant threat to human health or the environment.
   Collection means the act of removing solid waste from a point of generation
to a central storage point or to a disposal site and from a central storage
point to a disposal site.
   Commercial solid waste means solid waste generated by stores, offices,
restaurants, warehouses, and other nonmanufacturing activities excluding
residential, industrial, and institutional wastes.
   Construction or demolition waste means solid waste resulting solely from
construction, remodeling, repair, or demolition operations on buildings, or
other structures but does not include inert, land clearing or yard waste debris
or used asphalt mixed with dirt, sand, gravel, rock, concrete, or similar
nonhazardous material.
   Department means the state department of environment and natural resources
(DENR).
   Director means the county director of utilities who is the administrator
designated with the responsibility for the solid waste program and enforcement
of this article, or his designated representative.
   Disposal means the discharge, deposit, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking
or placing of any solid waste into or on any land or water so that the solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including groundwater.
   Division means the county division of solid waste management.
   Garbage means all putrescible wastes, including animal offal and carcasses,
and recognizable industrial byproducts, but excluding sewage and human waste.
   Hazardous waste means a solid waste, or combination of solid wastes, which
because of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious
characteristics may:
   (1)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or
   (2)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the
environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   Hazardous waste disposal facility means any facility or any portion of a
facility for disposal of hazardous waste on or in any land.
   Hazardous waste facility means a facility for the collection, storage,
processing, treatment, recycling or recovery of hazardous waste.
   Hazardous waste generation means the act or process of producing hazardous
waste.
   Incineration means the process of burning solid, semisolid, or gaseous
combustible wastes to an inoffensive gas and residue containing little or no
combustible material.
   Industrial solid waste means solid waste generated by manufacturing or
industrial processes that is not hazardous waste regulated under subtitle C of
RCRA. This term does not include mining waste or oil and gas waste.
   Inert debris means solid waste which consists solely of material that is
virtually inert and likely to retain its physical and chemical structure under
expected conditions of disposal.
   Infectious waste means:
   (1)   Equipment, instruments, utensils and fomites of a disposable nature
from the rooms of patients who are suspected to have or have been diagnosed as
having a communicable disease and must therefore be isolated as required by
public health agencies.
   (2)   Laboratory wastes, such as pathological specimens (e.g., all tissues,
specimens of blood elements, excreta and secretion from patients or laboratory
animals) and disposable fomites (any substance that may harbor or transmit
pathogenic organisms) attendant thereto.
   (3)   Surgical operating room pathologic specimens and disposable fomites
attendant thereto, and similar disposable materials from outpatient areas and
emergency rooms.
   Institutional solid waste means solid waste generated by educational, health
care, correctional, and other institutional facilities, excluding residential,
commercial, and industrial waste.
   Land clearing debris means solid waste which is generated solely from land
clearing activities, excluding construction and demolition waste.
   Landfill means a discrete area of land or an excavation that receives
nonhazardous solid waste and is not a land application unit, surface
impoundment, injection well, or waste pile, as defined under 40 CFR 257. A
landfill may be publicly or privately owned.
   Manager means the county manager or his designee.
   Medical waste means any solid waste which is generated in the diagnosis,
treatment or immunization of human beings or animals, in research pertaining
thereto, or in the production or testing of biologicals, but does not include
any hazardous waste identified or listed pursuant to this article, radioactive
waste, or household waste as defined in 40 CFR 261.4(b)(1) in effect on July 1,
1989, or those substances excluded from the definition of "solid waste" in this
section.
   Natural resources means all materials which have useful physical or chemical
properties which exist, unused, in nature.
   Open dump means a solid waste disposal site that does not have a permit and/
or does not comply with the rules set forth in this article.
   Operator means any person, including the owner, who is principally engaged
in, and is in charge of, the actual operation, supervision, and maintenance of
a solid waste management facility and includes the person in charge of a shift
or periods of operation during any part of the day.
   Pathological waste means human tissues, organs, body parts, secretions and
excretions, blood and body fluids that are removed during surgery and
autopsies, and carcasses and body parts of any animals that were exposed during
research to pathogens that are potentially dangerous to humans, were used in
the production of biologicals or in vivo testing of pharmaceuticals, or that
died with a known or suspected disease transmissible to humans.
   Processing means any technique designed to change the physical, chemical or
biological character or composition of any solid waste so as to render it safe
for transport; amenable to recovery, storage or recycling; safe for disposal;
or reduced in volume or concentration.
   Radioactive waste material means waste containing any material, whether
solid, liquid, or gas, that emits ionizing radiation spontaneously.
   Recovered materials means those materials which have known recycling
potential, can be feasibly recycled, and have been diverted or removed from the
solid waste stream for sale, use or reuse by separation, collection or
processing.
   Recyclable materials means those materials which are capable of being
recycled and which would otherwise be processed or disposed of as solid waste.
   Recycling means the process by which solid waste or recovered materials are
collected, separated, or processed, and reused or returned to use in the form
of raw materials or products.
   Refuse means all nonputrescible waste.
   Resource recovery means the process of obtaining material or energy
resources from discarded solid waste which no longer has any useful life in its
present form and preparing the solid waste for recycling.
   Reuse means a process by which resources are reused or rendered usable.
   Sanitary landfill means a facility for disposal of solid waste on land in a
sanitary manner in accordance with the rules concerning sanitary landfills
adopted under this article.
   Scrap tire means a tire that is no longer suitable for its original,
intended purpose because of wear, damage or defect.
   Septage means waste that is a fluid mixture of untreated and partially
treated sewage solids, liquids and sludge of human or domestic origin which is
removed from a septic tank system.
   Sharps means needles, syringes, and scalpel blades.
   Sludge means any solid, semisolid or liquid waste generated from a
municipal, commercial, institutional or industrial wastewater treatment plant,
water supply treatment plant or air pollution control facility, or any other
waste having similar characteristics and effects.
   Solid waste means any hazardous or nonhazardous garbage, refuse or sludge
from a waste treatment plant, water supply treatment plant or air pollution
control facility, domestic sewage and sludge generated by the treatment thereof
in sanitary sewage collection, treatment and disposal systems and other
material that is either discarded or is being accumulated, stored or treated
prior to being discarded or has served its original intended use and is
generally discarded, including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous
material resulting from industrial, institutional, commercial and agriculture
operations, and from community activities. The term does not include:
   (1)   Fecal waste from fowls and animals other than humans.
   (2)   Solid or dissolved material in:
      a.   Domestic sewage and sludge generated by treatment of domestic sewage
in sanitary sewage collection, treatment and disposal systems which are
designed to discharge effluents to the surface waters;
      b.   Irrigation return flows; and
      c.   Wastewater discharges and the sludge incidental to and generated by
treatment which are point sources subject to permits granted under Section 402
of the Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (PL 92-500), and permits granted
under G.S. 143-214.1 by the environmental management commission. However, any
sludge that meets the criteria for hazardous waste under RCRA shall also be a
solid waste for the purpose of this article.
   (3)   Oils and other liquid hydrocarbons controlled under G.S. 143A-215.75
et seq. However, any oils or other liquid hydrocarbons that meet the criteria
for hazardous waste under RCRA shall also be a solid waste for the purposes of
this article.
   (4)   Any source, special nuclear or byproduct material as defined by the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 USC 2011).
   (5)   Mining refuse covered by the state mining act, G.S. 74-46—74-68 and
regulated by the state mining commission (as defined under G.S. 143B-290).
However, any specific mining waste under RCRA shall also be a solid waste for
the purposes of this article.
   Solid waste collector means any person who collects or transports solid
waste.
   Solid waste container means a container used for the temporary storage of
solid waste or recyclables while awaiting collection.
   Solid waste container site means any place owned, leased, or operated by the
county at which solid waste containers have been placed.
   Solid waste disposal site means any place at which solid wastes are disposed
of by incineration, sanitary landfill or any other method.
   Solid waste management means a purposeful, systematic control of the
generation, storage, collection, transport, separation, treatment, processing,
recycling, recovery and disposal of solid waste.
   Solid waste management facility means land, personnel and equipment used in
the management of solid waste.
   Solid waste manager means the manager of the county solid waste division.
   Special waste means solid waste that can require special handling and
management, including white goods, whole tires, aluminum, used oil, lead-acid
batteries, asbestos, medical wastes and household hazardous wastes.
   Storage means the containment of solid waste, either on a temporary basis or
for a period of years in a manner which does not constitute disposal.
   Transfer facility means a permanent structure with mechanical equipment used
for the collection or compaction of solid waste prior to the transportation of
solid waste for disposal.
   Treatment means any method, technique or process, including neutralization,
designed to change the physical, chemical or biological character or
composition of any hazardous waste so as to neutralize such waste or so as to
render such waste nonhazardous, safer for transport, amenable for recovery,
amenable for storage or reduced in volume. The term "treatment" includes any
activity or processing designed to change the physical form or chemical
composition of hazardous waste so as to render it nonhazardous.
   Unit of local government means a county, city, town or incorporated village.
   Used oil means any oil which has been refined from crude oil or synthetic
oil and as a result of use, storage, or handling has become unsuitable for its
original purpose.
   White goods means inoperative and discarded refrigerators, ranges, water
heaters, freezers and other similar domestic and commercial large appliances.
   Yard waste means solid waste consisting solely of vegetative matter
resulting from landscaping maintenance.
   (b)   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and
enforcement of this article as it relates to oil and used oil:
   Public used oil collection center means:
   (1)   Automotive service facilities or governmentally sponsored collection
facilities, which in the course of business accept for disposal small
quantities of used oil from households.
   (2)   Facilities which store used oil in aboveground tanks, which are
approved by the department (DENR) and which in the course of business accept
for disposal small quantities of used oil from households.
   Used oil means any oil which has been refined from crude oil or synthetic
oil and as a result of use, storage, or handling has become unsuitable for its
original purpose due to the presence of impurities or loss of original
properties, but which may be suitable for further use and is economically
recyclable.
   Used oil recycling facility means any facility that recycles more than
10,000 gallons of used oil annually.
(Ord. of 10-4-1999, art. V)
   Cross reference—Definitions generally, §
1-2.
Sec. 20-35. - Penalties.
   (a)   Criminal penalties. Any person who violates the rules and regulations
set forth in this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject
to a fine of not more than $200.00 or imprisonment of not more than 30 days, as
specified by G.S. 14-4. Each day a violation occurs is a separate violation
with respect to the unlawful storage of solid waste.
   (b)   Civil penalties. 
   (1)   The sheriff, the designated solid waste officer, and any division
employee designated as having authority to assess civil penalties under this
article are empowered to issue civil citations upon the observance of a
violation of this article. It is the intent of this article that each person is
responsible for the proper management of his own waste and is responsible for
all acts involving vehicles and equipment owned by him. The owner or operator
of a vehicle shall be responsible for dumping, littering and other violations
in which his vehicle is used. The addressee of first class mail shall be
responsible for the proper management of the paper associated with that mail
when it becomes waste. The presence of first class mail in waste material shall
be prima facie evidence that the addressee owns that waste. The sheriff, the
designated solid waste officer, and any division employee designated as having
authority to assess civil penalties are empowered to allow persons to perform
cleanup work in lieu of an enforcement action under this article upon the
written request of the person or persons to perform the cleanup work.
   (2)   The minimum civil penalties for violation of this article shall be as
follows:
      a.   Restitution for damages. The county may seek restitution of damages
or extra expenses including the cost of cleanup, resulting from any violation
of this article. The minimum charge for cleanup will be $25.00. Actual charges
will be determined by the utility director or authorized personnel. If
contested, the county board of adjustment will determine the appropriate
amount.
      b.   Monetary penalties. The minimum civil penalties for violation of
this article shall be as follows:
         1.   Scavenging, unauthorized salvaging of discarded items:
 
            First of$ 25.00
            Second o50.00e
            Subseque100.00enses
 
         2.   Illegal dumping, including dumping prohibited quantities of
material at county solid waste facilities, or dumping in unapproved areas:
 
            First of$100.00
            Second o200.00
            Subseque300.00enses
 
         3.   Dumping in waterways, illegal dumping in waterways, including
streams, creeks, rivers, lakes or ponds:
 
            First of$ 500.00
            Second o1,000.00
            Subseque1,500.00ses
 
         4.   Illegal burning, illegal burning of solid waste, wire, tires and
other rubber products; heavy oil; asphalt materials; building material,
especially asbestos; paint; agricultural chemicals; household chemicals;
shingles; and asphalt or other petroleum products for the purpose of disposal:
 
            First of$200.00
            Second o300.00
            Subseque500.00enses
 
         5.   Improper transportation, including uncovered trucks and unsecured
loads, or improper vehicles by contract haulers of solid waste:
 
            First of$100.00
            Second o200.00
            Subseque400.00enses
 
         6.   Littering in the county, littering includes the improper disposal
of any solid waste on private or public land and highway rights-of-way, or
leaving solid waste at a closed facility:
 
            First of$ 500.00
            Second o1,000.00
            Subseque1,500.00ses
 
         7.   Failure to remove solid waste from property within seven days of
notification by the county:
 
            First of$100.00
            Second o200.00
            Subseque400.00enses
 
         8.   Failure to remove bulky waste within 72 hours of notification to
remove. Bulky waste is defined as large items of solid waste such as household
appliances, furniture, mattresses, bedding, automobiles, large machinery parts,
trees, branches, stumps and other waste whose large size precludes or
complicates its handling by normal solid waste collection, processing or
disposal methods:
 
            First of$100.00
            Second o200.00
            Subseque400.00enses
 
         9.   Unauthorized scrap tire collection. Operating a scrap tire
collection site containing more than 50 tires without a license:
 
            First of$100.00
            Second o200.00
            Subseque400.00enses
 
         10.   Violations of county requirements on use of solid waste
container and recycling sites:
 
            Fir$100.00nse
            Sec200.00fense
            Thi400.00ense
 
         11.   Other offenses listed in this article:
 
            Each ot$500.00ense
 
(Ord. of 10-4-1999, art. XIV)
Sec. 20-36. - General conditions.
   (a)   All solid waste management in the county shall be in accordance and in
compliance with solid waste management rules as set forth by the department
(DENR), as from time to time amended.
   (b)   All solid waste shall be stored, collected, transported, treated, and
processed, reclaimed, recycled, and disposed of in a manner consistent with the
requirements of this article.
   (c)   The division shall be charged with the responsibility for
administration, supervision, and execution of regulations pertaining to the
management of solid waste. Enforcement of the regulations of this article shall
be the responsibility of the county sheriff or his designee, and the zoning
enforcement officer. However, certain designated division personnel may assess
civil penalties under this article.
   (d)   Nothing in this article shall be construed to restrict in any way the
authority and applicability of the provisions of the county zoning ordinance
regarding junk and junkyards.
(Ord. of 10-4-1999; art. VI; Ord. of 12-10-2001)
Sec. 20-37. - Solid waste disposal.
   The following provisions shall apply to solid waste disposal under this
article:
   (1)   No owner, occupant, tenant or lessee of any property may deposit,
store or permit to accumulate any solid waste upon his property that is not
stored or disposed of in a manner prescribed by this article.
   (2)   The owner, occupant, tenant or lessee of any property shall remove or
cause to be removed all solid waste from his property at a frequency rate that
will control odor, rodents, and other nuisance conditions. The recommended
frequency rate is once per week.
   (3)   Garbage shall be stored only in containers that are durable,
nonabsorbent, nonleaking, and easily cleaned. Containers should have a close
fitting, flytight cover in place and adequate handles or bails to facilitate
handling. In addition to the containers described in this subsection, solid
waste may be stored in other containers that are adequate and suitable
receptacles. Garbage placed in receptacles that do not have a flytight cover
shall be wrapped, bagged or enclosed in paper or plastic material. Each
container shall be kept clean so that no other nuisance condition exists.
   (4)   Solid waste shall be stored in a manner that will not provide
harborage to rodents and vermin and will not create a fire hazard.
   (5)   No owner, occupant, tenant or lessee of a building or dwelling, other
than a licensed salvage and recycling operation, may place or leave or cause to
be placed or left outside the building or dwelling, any bulky wastes for longer
than one week.
   (6)   No owner, tenant or lessee of any building or dwelling, may leave
outside the building or dwelling, in a place accessible to children, any
abandoned or unattended icebox, refrigerator or other receptacle that has an
airtight door without first removing the door; provided, however, that any
icebox, refrigerator, freezer or other receptacle that has an airtight door,
may be securely locked to prevent children from gaining access.
   (7)   No person may discard, dispose, leave, or dump any solid waste on or
along any street or highway or on a public or private property unless such
solid waste is placed in a receptacle or at a location designated for the
deposit of solid waste.
   (8)   Construction waste must be disposed of at disposal sites approved and
permitted by the department (DENR) or as permitted pursuant to G.S. 130A-301.2.
   (9)   Regulated medical, hazardous, and radioactive waste must be disposed
of according to written procedures approved by the department (DENR).
   (10)   All sharps must be placed in a sealed, puncture-proof container and
disposed of separately from other waste.
   (11)   Open burning of solid waste is prohibited pursuant to 15A NCAC
20.1903.
   (12)   It is anticipated that each person in the county will be offered
collection service by a municipality, a private solid waste collector, or use
one of the county's rural solid waste convenience sites. Any person not using a
municipality, private collector, or one of the county's sites, will be
required, upon request, for cause or as a result of complaints received by the
county, to explain and show to the division or enforcement officer the method
and means of disposal of his solid waste and where such waste is being
disposed.
   (13)   No person, solid waste collector, or company shall dump or deposit
yard waste, white goods, large volumes of aluminum cans, used oil, whole tires,
or lead acid batteries into any county-owned sanitary landfill except as
authorized by state and county regulations. Any person found to have done so
shall remove such waste immediately upon being requested to do so by a
representative of the county. If the person depositing any such waste fails to
remove it upon request of the county, the waste will be removed by county
representatives and deposited in an appropriate waste management facility. The
person who illegally deposited the waste shall be billed by the county for all
of its costs incurred in removing, transporting, and properly disposing of the
waste from the sanitary landfill.
   (14)   No person, solid waste collector, or company shall dispose of
hazardous or liquid wastes in any county-owned landfill.
   (15)   No person, solid waste collector, or company shall dispose of solid
waste, except by one of the following methods, provided that this section shall
not be construed to prevent any person from properly disposing of solid waste
from his own residence on his own property in a safe and sanitary manner
consistent with this article and state regulations:
      a.   Sanitary landfill which has been approved by the department of
environment and natural resources.
      b.   Convenience and recycling centers operated by the county for
individual households in the county.
      c.   Incinerators which meet all requirements of the local, state and
federal air pollution standards and have been approved by the appropriate state
and federal agencies.
      d.   Construction/demolition landfill approved by appropriate county,
state and federal agencies.
      e.   By any other methods including reclaiming or recycling processes
which have been approved by the department (DENR).
   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. of 10-4-1999, art. VII; Amend. of 12-6-2021)
Sec. 20-38. - Landfill operating policies.
   The utility director shall develop a written operating policy for the county
landfill. This policy will be adopted by the board of commissioners and may be
changed from time to time by approval of the board.
(Ord. of 10-4-1999, art. VIII)
Sec. 20-39. - Solid waste container and recycling sites.
   The county operates and maintains numerous sites throughout the county for
the convenience of its residents to dispose of their household waste. These
sites are equipped with containers for household waste and recyclable
materials. All users disposing of solid waste are required to display a valid
solid waste disposal decal on the windshield of the vehicle transporting the
garbage. Users disposing of acceptable recyclable materials are not required to
possess a solid waste decal. The utility director shall develop a written
operating policy for the container sites. This policy will be adopted by the
board of commissioners and may change from time to time by approval of the
board.
(Ord. of 10-4-1999, art. X; Amend of 7-10-2006(2))
Sec. 20-40. - Transportation of solid waste.
   No individual shall transport solid waste, demolition/construction/landscape
waste, or yard waste in any vehicle or container unless the waste is covered by
being in an enclosed vehicle or container or otherwise adequately covered by a
metal or fabric cover; provided, however, a person may transport loads
consisting solely of limbs if they are securely tied to the motor vehicles or
trailer. The driver and/or owner of such vehicle shall be cited for violation
of this article as provided in section
20-35. The enforcement officer shall not unreasonably exercise his authority in
the enforcement of this article. A violation of this section is punishable as a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. of 10-4-1999, art. XI; Amend. of 12-6-2021)
Sec. 20-41. - Littering and unauthorized dumping.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to dispose of solid waste in an open
dump except on their property.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful to leave solid waste at a recycling and
convenience center or landfill unless there is a county employee on duty to
direct and supervise the disposing of the solid waste at the site.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to litter at recycling and
convenience centers. Littering shall include dumping solid waste in a solid
waste container and causing the container to overflow. It shall be unlawful for
any person to dump solid waste at a landfill except in areas designated by the
landfill operators on duty. All costs incurred by the county in the collection
and removal of litter at a recycling and convenience center or landfill, or in
the collection and proper disposition of unauthorized dumping at a landfill
shall be recoverable from the person who littered or dumped in violation of
this article and from the person who generated such litter or unauthorized
dumped material.
   (d)   If any solid waste disposed of in violation of this article can be
identified as having last belonged to, been in the possession of, sent to or
received by or to have been the property of any person prior to being disposed
of, such identification shall be presumed to be prima facie evidence that such
person disposed of or caused to be disposed of such solid waste in violation of
this article.
   (e)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. of 10-4-1999, art. XIII; Amend. of 12-6-2021)
Secs. 20-42—20-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - HAZARDOUS WASTE [22] 
   (22) Cross reference—Environment,
ch. 12.
   (22) State Law reference—Authority to regulate, G.S. 153A-101, 153A-102 and
153A-121.
   Sec.
20-71. - Authority to remove, abate or remedy hazardous material emergencies.
   Sec.
20-72. - Purpose and intent.
   Sec.
20-73. - Definitions.
   Sec.
20-74. - Injunctions and equitable relief.
   Sec.
20-75. - Charges.
   Sec.
20-76. - Billing.
   Sec.
20-77. - Hazardous waste facilities.
   Sec.
20-78. - Exemptions.
   Sec.
20-79. - Assessment requirements.
   Sec.
20-80. - Environmental impact statement.
   Sec.
20-81. - Technical requirements for an EIS.
Sec. 20-71. - Authority to remove, abate or remedy hazardous material
emergencies.
   The duties of emergency management agencies, fire departments, EMS and
rescue squads shall include controlling and eliminating hazardous material
emergencies in the county. The EMA, fire departments, EMS, and rescue squads
have the authority to summarily remove, abate or remedy hazardous material
emergencies in the county that are dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health and/or public safety. The expense of the action shall be paid by the
person at fault.
(Ord. of 9-4-1990, § 1)
Sec. 20-72. - Purpose and intent.
   Pursuant to the state environmental policy act, the board of commissioners
adopts this article establishing a county policy to encourage the wise and safe
use of the county's natural resources; to encourage public and governmental
awareness of the environment, particularly concerning hazardous waste
management; and to require full disclosure by all operators of hazardous waste
facility component operators regarding the environmental impact of their
activities. The intent of this article is to provide a mechanism for full
disclosure of anticipated impacts of hazardous waste management facilities and
to make such information available to the citizens of the county in a timely
manner. It is the intent of this article to provide such information at such an
appropriate time and in such manner so as to enable the information so
generated to have a reasonable and meaningful impact into all aspects of the
operation of any hazardous waste management facility. More specifically, it is
the intent of this article to require the preparation and evaluation of
environmental impact statements (EIS) for any and all hazardous waste
management facilities, or components thereof.
(Ord. of 12-3-1990, § 1)
Sec. 20-73. - Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Completed EA means an environmental assessment that has been accepted by the
county planning department as technically acceptable for purposes of this
article.
   Completed EIS means an environmental impact statement that has been accepted
by the county planning department as technically acceptable for the purpose of
being transmitted to the state clearinghouse or for being reviewed for adequacy
by the county planning department.
   County planning department and planning department mean the county planning
department.
   EA means an environmental assessment.
   EIS means an environmental impact statement.
   Environmental document means an EA, EIS or FONSI, or all of them.
   FONSI means a finding of no significant environmental impact.
   Hazardous material means any substance or material that poses an
unreasonable risk to the health, safety and/or welfare of the public and all
properties. Materials could include, but are not limited to, any element,
compound or combination thereof which is flammable, corrosive, etc., that may
have a detrimental affect on both operating and emergency personnel, the
public, equipment, and/or the environment.
   Special-purpose unit of government includes any special district or public
authority.
   State agency includes every department, agency, institution, public
authority, board, commission, bureau, division, council, member of council of
state, or officer of the state government.
(Ord. of 9-4-1990, § 4; Ord. of 12-3-1990, § 7)
   Cross reference—Definitions generally, §
1-2.
Sec. 20-74. - Injunctions and equitable relief.
   Pursuant to the provisions of G.S. 153A-123(d) and (3), the county shall be
entitled to an injunction or other appropriate equitable remedy to restrain any
violation of this article or to require compliance with any provision of this
article.
(Ord. of 12-3-1990, § 6)
Sec. 20-75. - Charges.
   The following charges shall apply for the control and elimination of
hazardous material under this article:
   (1)   EMS. The charge for EMS service shall include, but not be limited to,
trips, mileage, waiting charges, cardiac monitoring, IV, splinting, mast
trousers, oxygen, cardiac arrest, and etc.
   (2)   EMA. The emergency management agency shall have authority to make a
charge for travel and supervision associated with hazardous material cleanup.
Charges could include, but are not limited to, highway spills, unlawful
hazardous dump cleanup, etc. Charges for materials used in cleanup such as
absorbent, containment materials, and etc., shall be at the actual replacement
cost.
   (3)   Fire service. The charge for fire service shall include, but not be
limited to, fire suppression, wash-down, rescue, standby, water, or other
actions necessary to neutralize the hazard.
(Ord. of 9-4-1990, § 2)
Sec. 20-76. - Billing.
   The agency rendering a service under this article shall be responsible for
all billing and collection procedures.
(Ord. of 9-4-1990, § 3)
Sec. 20-77. - Hazardous waste facilities.
   (a)   This article shall apply to all hazardous waste management facilities
including, but not necessarily limited to, any hazardous waste incinerator,
solvent recovery facility, landfill, longterm storage or other hazardous waste
disposal facility and shall include all hazardous waste facilities as defined
by G.S. 130B-2(b)(1) and all hazardous waste management units as defined by 10
NCAC § 10F.0002 and 40 CFR 260.10(63), as well as all components thereof.
   (b)   This article shall apply to all hazardous waste management facilities
whether the operator is a private person or a government entity.
(Ord. of 12-3-1990, § 2.1)
Sec. 20-78. - Exemptions.
   This article shall not apply to any hazardous waste management facility
which occupies a total area of two acres or less.
(Ord. of 12-3-1990, § 2.2)
Sec. 20-79. - Assessment requirements.
   (a)   Environmental assessments. 
   (1)   Any person required under this article to submit an environmental
impact statement may first submit an environmental assessment (EA). The
environmental assessment shall consist of a document supplied to the county to
address questions of environmental concerns to the county and shall be
completed by the operator of the facility. The county may, upon review of the
EA, choose to relieve an operator of its obligation to draft an EIS by
delivering to the operator of the facility and finding of no significant impact
(FONSI).
   (2)   The submittal of an EA in no way relieves an operator of a facility of
any obligations he may have to file an EIS except upon written notification of
a finding of no significant impact by the county.
   (b)   Review of environmental assessment. 
   (1)   The environmental assessment may be submitted prior to the submittal
of an environmental impact statement.
   (2)   The county shall review the EA for completeness within five calendar
days of the date of submittal. If the EA is found to be incomplete, it will be
returned to the applicant with notification of its deficiencies.
   (3)   If accepted as complete, the EA will be reviewed by the county and
will be distributed to appropriate departments or agencies within the county
for review and comment.
   (4)   Final action on the EA shall occur within 14 days from the date of
acceptance or such longer time as agreed upon in writing. If the EA reveals no
significant environmental impacts, the county shall issue a finding of no
significant impact (FONSI). If significant impacts are identified, then the
county shall so notify the operator of the facility and require that an EIS be
prepared.
   (5)   The filing of an EA with the county shall not relieve a person from
any required deadline set out in this article for the submittal of an EIS
except upon receipt of a FONSI by the county.
(Ord. of 12-3-1990, § 3)
Sec. 20-80. - Environmental impact statement.
   (a)   Requirement. 
   (1)   An environmental impact statement (EIS) shall be submitted to the
county for every facility which shall be placed in the county after the
effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived.
   (2)   The EIS shall be submitted to the county by the person who will be
designated as the operator of the facility or any state agency responsible for
the siting of a facility.
   (b)   When required. 
   (1)   When the operator of a hazardous waste facility is a private person
and the facility cannot otherwise be considered a facility operated by a
governmental unit, the environmental impact statement shall be submitted to the
county no later than 90 days after the date of the submittal by the operator of
any permits regarding the subject facility to the state department of
environment, health and natural resources.
   (2)   Any facility which shall be operated by a governmental unit or whose
construction is mandated by state, local or federal law or regional agreement,
shall be due within 90 days after initial selection of the site.
   (3)   With regard to a facility, or component of a facility, which is being
sited pursuant to the provisions of G.S. 130B-11, the EIS shall be required no
later than 90 days after the selection of any site within the county as a
suitable site as defined by G.S. 130B-11. An EIS must be submitted prior to the
selection of any site in the county as a preferred site, as defined by G.S.
130B-11.
   (c)   Review. 
   (1)   The county shall review the EIS for completeness within five working
days of submittal. If the statement is found to be incomplete, it will be
returned to the applicant with notification of its deficiencies.
   (2)   Upon acceptance by the county, the environmental impact statement
shall be distributed to all appropriate departments and agencies of the county
for review and comment. A notice shall be placed in a newspaper of general
circulation stating that the EIS will be available for public review at the
commanding department for a period of at least 15 days.
   (3)   Upon completeness of the advertised 15-day review period and upon
receipt of comments from all applicable state and federal parties, all comments
will be compiled and summarized by the planning staff.
   (4)   The EIS along with all comments received during the review period
shall be presented for public hearing. The hearing shall take place no later
than 30 days after the close of the public review period or upon receipt of
comments, whichever is later.
   (5)   The board of commissioners shall receive the EIS and all comments as
information only. No action shall be taken regarding the EIS until after it has
been presented to the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 12-3-1990, § 4)
Sec. 20-81. - Technical requirements for an EIS.
   (a)   Purpose. The primary purpose of an EIS is to serve as a decision-
making tool to ensure that the purposes and policies defined in the state
environmental policy act of 1971 (G.S. 113A) are given full consideration in
the ongoing programs and actions of state and local government. It should
provide a full and fair discussion of significant environmental impacts and
should inform decision-makers and the public of the reasonable alternatives
which would avoid or minimize adverse impacts or enhance the quality of the
environment.
   (b)   Requirements. Preparers should use a format for EISs which would
encourage good analysis and clear presentation of all alternatives, including
the proposed activity, while minimizing length and complexity. These documents
should not exceed 50 pages and should include site location maps. The format
and content for EISs shall be as follows:
   (1)   Cover sheet. A single cover sheet including the following information:
      a.   Designation of the document as a draft, supplementary or final
statement.
      b.   Title of the proposed activity that is the subject of the statement.
      c.   List of any involved cooperating entities.
      d.   Name, address, and telephone number of the person who can supply
further information.
   (2)   Summary. An adequate and accurate summary of the statement stressing
the major conclusions, areas of controversy, and issues to be resolved. The
summary shall also list all federal, state, and local permits, licenses,
certifications, and other approvals which must be obtained in implementing the
proposal. If there is any uncertainty about whether any one of these is
necessary, it should be so indicated.
   (3)   Purpose and need. The underlying purpose and need for the proposed
activity.
   (4)   Alternatives including proposed activity. Based upon information and
analysis presented in this subsection on the affected environment and
environmental consequences, it should present the environmental impacts of the
alternatives including the proposed activity in comparative form. To the extent
possible the comparison of alternatives should quantify how the purpose and
need would be satisfied by each alternative and the proposed activity. It
should also:
      a.   Explore and evaluate all reasonable alternatives.
      b.   Discuss the reasons for the elimination of alternatives from
detailed study.
      c.   Include appropriate mitigation measures not already included in the
alternatives.
      d.   Describe the environment of the area to be affected and the
environment to be created by the alternatives under consideration. The
description should be no longer than is necessary to understand the effects of
the alternatives.
      e.   Describe environmental consequences, such as:
         1.   Direct effects and significance.
         2.   Indirect effects and significance.
         3.   Possible conflicts between the proposed activities and the
objectives of federal, state, and local plans, policies and controls for the
affected area.
      f.   List the names and qualifications of the persons who were primarily
responsible for preparing the EIS.
      g.   If an appendix is included in an EIS, it should meet the following
requirements:
         1.   Consist of materials substantiating any analysis fundamental to
the principal document, as distinct from material of lesser significance that
may accompany the document or be incorporated by reference;
         2.   Normally be analytic and relevant to the decision to be made;
         3.   Shall not be counted in the EIS 50 page limit; and
         4.   Be circulated with the EIS or be readily available upon request.
(Ord. of 12-3-1990, § 5)
Chapter 21 - RESERVED
Chapter 22 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS [23] 
   (23) Cross reference—Businesses,
ch. 6; zoning districts, §
14-51 et seq.; roads and other public places,
ch. 18.
   (23) State Law reference—Cable television franchises, G.S. 153A-137.
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL
   Secs. 22-1—22-30. - Reserved.
Secs. 22-1—22-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CABLE TELEVISION
   Sec.
22-31. - Short title.
   Sec.
22-32. - Intent and purpose; right of county to issue franchise.
   Sec.
22-33. - Definitions.
   Sec.
22-34. - Franchise required; application.
   Sec.
22-35. - Acceptance; indemnification; effective date.
   Sec.
22-36. - Duration of franchise; termination; transfer; renewal.
   Sec.
22-37. - Authority granted by franchise.
   Sec.
22-38. - Conditions to use of streets.
   Sec.
22-39. - Permits, installation and service.
   Sec.
22-40. - Operational requirements.
   Sec.
22-41. - Remuneration to county.
   Sec.
22-42. - Rights reserved to county.
   Sec.
22-43. - Franchise area and extension of service.
   Sec.
22-44. - Expense reimbursement to county.
   Secs. 22-45—22-70. - Reserved.
Sec. 22-31. - Short title.
   This article shall be known as the Johnston County Cable Television
Ordinance.
(Ord. of 10-5-1981)
Sec. 22-32. - Intent and purpose; right of county to issue franchise.
   (a)   For the better protection of the public interest, health, safety,
welfare and convenience, the rules and regulations in this article are adopted
to set forth the conditions, requirements and limitations under which a person
may construct, have constructed, operate and maintain a cable television system
and engage in the business of providing a cable television service in the
county.
   (b)   The grantee shall acknowledge and accept the right of the county to
issue a franchise.
(Ord. of 10-5-1981, § 12.2; Ord. of 4-3-1995, § 12.3)
Sec. 22-33. - Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Cable (Community Antenna) Television Service means the business of
furnishing to the public for compensation, by means of a master antenna and
cables, broadcast TV programs obtained off the air, together with such other
program material and advertising as may be allowed by rules and regulations of
the Federal Communication Commission from time to time.
   Cable television system and CATV system mean a system of antennas, cables,
wires, lines, towers, waveguides or other conductors, converters, equipment or
facilities, designed and constructed for the purpose of producing, receiving,
transmitting, amplifying and distributing, audio, video and other forms of
electronic or electrical signals, located in the county. This definition shall
not include any such facility that serves or will serve only subscribers in one
or more multiple unit dwellings under common ownership, control or management
and does not use county or public rights-of-way.
   CATV means Cable (Community Antenna) Television.
   Franchise means and includes any authorization granted under this article in
terms of a franchise, privilege, permit, license or otherwise to construct, or
have constructed, operate and maintain a system in the county for the purpose
of providing cable television service to the citizens of the county. Any such
authorization, in whatever terms granted, shall not include any license or
permit authorization required for the privilege of transacting and carrying on
a business within the county otherwise provided for.
   Grantee means the person to whom a franchise is granted by the county
commissioners under this article, and the lawful successor, transferee or
assignee of such person.
   Gross revenue includes the regular subscriber service fees, installation
fees, and reconnect fees, pay TV, leased-channel revenues, advertising
revenues, and other income from the system or as amended by the FCC or
Congress.
   Pay TV means any arrangement under which a separate charge is made to a
subscriber for receiving a particular television program or series of programs.
   Property of grantee means all property owned and installed by a grantee in
the conduct of a CATV business in the county under the authority of a franchise
granted pursuant to this article.
   Street means the surface of and the space above and below any public road,
street, right-of-way, highway, freeway, bridge, lane, path, alley, court,
sidewalk, drive, existing as such within the franchise area.
   Subscriber means any person or entity receiving for any purpose the CATV
service of a grantee.
(Ord. of 10-5-1981, § 12.3; Ord. of 4-3-1995, § 12.3)
   Cross reference—Definitions generally, §
1-2.
Sec. 22-34. - Franchise required; application.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or otherwise
participate in the construction, operation or maintenance of a community
antenna television system in the county unless such person or the person for
whom the work is being done shall have first obtained a franchise from the
board of commissioners. It shall also be unlawful for any person to engage in
the business of providing a community antenna television service in the county
unless such person shall have first obtained a franchise from the board of
commissioners.
   (b)   In selecting a franchisee pursuant to this article, the applicant
shall furnish the following information:
   (1)   The name and address of the applicant. If the applicant is a
partnership, the name and address of each partner. If the applicant is a
corporation, the application shall also state the names and addresses of its
directors, officers, parents and subsidiary companies and of stockholders
owning as much as three percent of the outstanding stock, and shall include a
certified copy of the articles of incorporation.
   (2)   A statement showing the applicant's experience in establishing a
system and in providing a service.
   (3)   A financial statement prepared by a certified public accountant, or
person otherwise satisfactory to the county board, showing the applicant's
financial status and its financial ability to complete the construction and
installation of the proposed system and to provide the proposed service. In
connection therewith, information with respect to financial projections,
including nature and sources of capital or equity financing, shall be submitted
along with the application.
   (4)   A statement and description of the system proposed to be constructed,
installed, maintained or operated by the applicant; the manner in which the
applicant proposed to construct, install, maintain and operate the system; and,
particularly the extent and manner in which existing or future poles or other
facilities or other public utilities will be used for such system; and
estimated time before the system will be in operation.
   (5)   A copy of any arrangement, agreement or contract, if existing, between
the applicant and any public utility providing for the use of facilities of
such public utility, such as poles, lines, cables or conduits.
   (6)   A statement setting forth all agreements and understandings, whether
written, oral or implied, existing between the applicant and any person, with
respect to the ownership, control or transfer of the proposed franchise or the
proposed CATV system and service. If a franchise is granted to a person posing
as a front or as the representative of another person and such information is
not disclosed in the original application, such franchise shall be deemed void
and of no force and effect whatsoever.
   (7)   A statement or schedule of proposed rates and charges to subscribers
for installation and services.
   (8)   Any additional information which the board of commissioners, at any
time, may deem reasonably necessary to determine whether the requested
franchise should be granted.
   (c)   Applicants will be evaluated according to the following criteria:
   (1)   Installation plan. Preference may be given to an installation plan
that would provide flexibility needed to adjust to new departments, maintenance
practices, and services that would be available to the subscriber and the
community immediately and in the future.
   (2)   Rate schedule. Preference may be given to applicants with the most
reasonable installation and subscriber rate schedule.
   (3)   Financial soundness and capability. The evidence of financial ability
required in the applicant's proposal shall be such as to ensure that the
applicant can fulfill its financial obligation.
   (4)   Demonstrated experience in operating a CATV system under county
franchise. Preference may be given upon evidence of the applicant's experience
in operating a CATV system under county franchise, where such evidence would
show or tend to show or confirm the ability of the applicant to furnish
sufficient and dependable service to the potential public and private users.
   (d)   The county board shall award a franchise to an applicant only after a
public hearing on the application and proposal.
(Ord. of 10-5-1981, § 12.4; Ord. of 4-3-1995, § 12.4)
Sec. 22-35. - Acceptance; indemnification; effective date.
   (a)   Within 25 days after the board of commissioners has taken final action
to approve the granting of a franchise, the grantee shall file a written
acceptance of the conditions required for the franchise, acknowledged before a
notary public, with the county manager. Such acceptance shall acknowledge that
the grantee agrees to be bound by and to comply with the provisions of this
article and the franchise and shall be in such form and content as to be
satisfactory to and approved by the county attorney.
   (b)   Concurrently with the filing of the written acceptance, the grantee
shall file with the county manager the bond, letter of credit, and insurance
policies required by section
22-42.
   (c)   The effective date of the franchise shall be the date the grantee
files its written acceptance of the conditions required for the franchise in
accordance with the provisions of subsection (a) of this section.
(Ord. of 10-5-1981, § 12.5)
Sec. 22-36. - Duration of franchise; termination; transfer; renewal.
   (a)   A franchise under this article shall be nonexclusive and shall be for
a term as specified in the franchise not to exceed 15 years.
   (b)   (1)   Except as provided in this article, no transfer of control of
the CATV system shall take place, whether by forced or voluntary sale, lease,
mortgage, assignment, encumbrance or any other form of disposition, without
prior notice to and approval by the county board which shall not be
unreasonably refused. The notice shall include full identifying particulars of
the proposed transaction, and the board of commissioners shall either approve
or disapprove such transfer by resolution, within 120 days of the receipt of
the notice.
   (2)   The consent or approval of the board of commissioners to any
assignment, lease, transfer, sublease, or mortgage of the grantee shall not
constitute a waiver or release of the rights of the county in and to the
streets.
   (3)   For the purpose of this section the term "control" is not limited to
majority stock ownership, but includes actual working control in whatever
manner exercised.
   (4)   A rebuttable presumption that a transfer of control has occurred shall
arise upon the acquisition or accumulation by any person or group of persons of
ten percent of the voting shares of any corporate grantee.
   (5)   In the absence of the extraordinary circumstances, the board of
commissioners will not approve any transfer or assignment of the grantee before
completion of the construction of the energized cable.
   (6)   Notwithstanding anything in this section to the contrary, a franchisee
may hypothecate or pledge its interest in this franchise for the purpose of
obtaining financing, the proceeds of which shall be utilized in the
construction, maintenance and operation of a cable television system authorized
under the terms of this article. Any change in ownership or control of the
system resulting from such pledge or hypothecation shall not become absolute
without:
      a.   The approval of the county.
      b.   Any new grantee filing with the county its written acceptance of
this article, the franchise and all the conditions thereto. Such acceptance
shall be filed within 60 days following the date of such change.
   (c)   The board of commissioners may terminate the franchise prior to the
date of expiration upon a finding, made after 30 days' notice of any proposed
termination and public hearing that:
   (1)   The grantee has failed to comply in some material respect with any of
the provisions of this article, or has, by any act or omission, violated in
some material respect any term or condition of any franchise or permit issued
under this article.
   (2)   The grantee made a material, false statement in the application for
the franchise, knowing it to be false.
   (3)   The grantee, contrary to the best interest of public convenience and
welfare, is not providing subscribers with regular, adequate and proper
service.
   (4)   The grantee agrees that any unresolved complaint by a subscriber or
would be subscriber in the areas covered in this section shall be referred to
the county manager and, if such unresolved complaint is not reasonably
resolved, the complaint shall be forwarded to the board of commissioners, and
that any willful failure and refusal to take the necessary steps to resolve the
complaint shall enable the board of commissioners to terminate this franchise
and cause service to be terminated or other appropriate action to be taken by
the board of commissioners.
   (d)   If the use of any tangible part of the CATV system is discontinued for
any reason for a continuous period of 365 days, or the franchise has been
terminated, cancelled or has expired, the grantee shall promptly remove from
the streets or public places all such property of the system, other than that
which the board of commissioners may permit to be abandoned in place, and as
directed by the board of commissioners shall either restore the street or pay
the county for restoring the street or other area from which such property has
been removed to a condition for public use as good as the abutting portions
thereof. Any property remaining in place 60 days after the termination or
expiration of the franchise shall be considered permanently abandoned.
   (e)   Renewal discretion. Unless otherwise provided by federal law, but no
later than 18 months prior to the end of the franchise, application is to be
made by the grantee for renewal. The board of commissioners may take into
account quality of service, customer complaints, degree to which the grantee
has extended service, and condition of CATV plant and equipment as well as
other factors required of new applications.
(Ord. of 10-5-1981, § 12.6; Ord. of 4-3-1995, § 12.6)
Sec. 22-37. - Authority granted by franchise.
   (a)   The grantee of any franchise issued pursuant to the provisions of this
article shall be authorized and required to construct, or have constructed,
operate and maintain a CATV system and to engage in the business of providing a
CATV service for a specified area of the county, and for that purpose to erect,
install, construct, repair, replace, reconstruct, maintain and retain in, over,
on, under, upon, across and along any public street; such wires, cables,
conductors, ducts, conduits, vaults, manholes, amplifiers, appliances,
attachments and other property excepting poles as may be necessary and
appurtenant to the CATV system; and in addition, so to use, operate, and
provide similar facilities or properties rented or leased from other persons,
including, but not limited to, any public utility or other grantee franchised
or permitted to do business in the county. Expansion of plant lines shall
utilize fiber optic to the greatest extent possible. Rebuild shall utilize
fiber optic to ensure high quality of service and to reduce the number of
amplifiers.
   (b)   (1)   The grantee may initially charge subscribers and users of the
CATV system for services up to the amounts specified in its schedule of rates
and charges as proposed in its franchise application and approved by the board
of commissioners. Such maximum rates shall be in effect for a minimum period of
two years from the effective date of the franchise or until the grantee has
completed all construction as proposed in its franchise application for the
first and second years of construction, whichever is longer.
   (2)   Thereafter, all rate changes shall be fixed by the board of
commissioners, and may be initiated either by the county or the grantee where
authorized by law.
   (3)   The criteria for the board of commissioners's decision in such matters
shall be the establishment of rates which are fair and reasonable to both the
grantee and its subscribers and shall be generally defined as the minimum rates
necessary to meet all applicable costs of service, including fair return on all
invested capital, all assuming efficient and economical management.
   (4)   In order for the county board to determine whether proposed rate
changes conform with the criteria established in subsection (b)(3) of this
section, the grantee's petition for a rate increase shall include the following
financial reports, which shall reflect the operations of a county system only
or systems operated in conjunction with the county:
      a.   Balance sheet;
      b.   Income statement;
      c.   Statement of sources and applications of funds;
      d.   Detailed supporting schedules of expenses, income, assets and other
items as may be required;
      e.   Statement of current and projected subscribers and penetration; and
      f.   Other reports and data that the board of commissioners may request.
   The grantee's accounting records applicable to a county system and any
system of which the county is a part, shall be available for inspection by the
county at all reasonable times. The county shall have access to records of
financial transactions for the purpose of verifying burden rates or other
indirect costs prorated to the county operation. The documents listed above
shall include sufficient detail and/or footnotes as may be necessary to provide
the county with the information needed to make accurate determinations as to
the financial condition of the system. All financial statements shall be
certified as accurate by an officer of the grantee.
   (5)   The grantee shall have the right to appeal to a court of competent
jurisdiction from any rate fixed by the board of commissioners. However, the
rates so fixed by the board of commissioners shall be presumed to be valid.
   (c)   The grantee shall not engage in the sale, service, repair, rental or
leasing of television receivers, radio receivers, parts or accessories and
shall not require or attempt to influence its subscribers to deal with any
particular person in regard thereto.
   (d)   Construction and maintenance of the CATV system, including house
connections, shall be in accordance with the provisions of the:
   (1)   National Electrical Safety Code of the Institution of Electrical and
Electronic Engineers;
   (2)   National Electronic Code of the National Fire Protection Association;
and
   (3)   Bell Telephone and Carolina Telephone Systems' Code of Pole Line
Construction.
   (e)   The franchise shall require that an access channel shall be reserved
for future use by government, educational institutions, civic groups and the
general public. Two data channels, one forward data path not to exceed six MHz,
and one reverse data path not to exceed six MHz, shall be reserved for use by
the county for county data. The franchisee shall provide these channels without
charge to the county government facilities. These data channels shall be
coordinated so as to provide consistent quality transmission within and between
CATV systems.
(Ord. of 10-5-1981, § 12.7; Ord. of 4-3-1995, § 12.7)
Sec. 22-38. - Conditions to use of streets.
   (a)   The poles used for a distribution system shall be those erected and
maintained by the power company, or the telephone company or either whenever
agreement can be reached with the owners of such poles. Any poles, wires,
cables, conduits, or other properties to be realigned or reset to permit their
use for purposes of the grantee under an agreement with the owner thereof shall
be constructed or installed only at such locations and depths and in such
manner as shall be approved by the owner and the county manager. They shall be
located so as not to interfere with the proper use of streets and to cause
minimum interferences with the rights or reasonable convenience of the general
public and of property owners who adjoin such streets, as determined by the
county.
   (b)   The installation of the facilities, including service drops to
subscribers, shall be made underground in areas where facilities of the
telephone company and the power company are underground or hereafter may be
placed underground. In addition to the foregoing, installation of the
facilities shall be made underground when required by county ordinances or
policies.
   (c)   The grantee shall, at its expense, protect, support, temporarily
disconnect, relocate in the same street or other public place, or remove from
the street or other public place, any property of the grantee when required by
the county by reason of traffic conditions, public safety, street vacation,
freeway and street construction, change or establishment of street grade,
installation of sewers, drains, water pipes, power lines, signal lines, or any
other type of structures or improvements of the county, and the county shall
not be liable for any disturbance of the grantee's installations resulting
therefrom. The grantee shall carry out the instructions and directions of the
county manager whenever it is necessary to raise or remove any of the grantee's
wires or cables temporarily, for the purpose of moving or removing buildings or
structures on the public streets of the county, and shall perform such tree
trimming or other maintenance work as shall be required or as shall be directed
by the county manager, all at the grantee's expense.
   (d)   Whenever a grantee takes up or disturbs any pavement, sidewalk or
other improvement of any street, the pavement, sidewalk or other improvement of
any street shall be replaced and the surface restored in as good condition as
before entry in accordance with ordinances, regulations, technical standards
and fee schedules of the county as administered by the county manager. Any
opening or obstruction in the streets shall be guarded and protected at all
times by the placement of adequate barriers, fences or boardings, the bounds of
which shall be clearly designated by warning lights of approved types.
   (e)   The grantee shall own the cable communications system, but shall have
no property right in the public rights-of-way upon the completion of the
franchise term or any extension thereof.
(Ord. of 10-5-1981, § 12.8; Ord. of 4-3-1995, § 12.8)
Sec. 22-39. - Permits, installation and service.
   (a)   Within 30 days after the effective date of a franchise under this
article, the grantee shall proceed with due diligence to obtain all necessary
permits and authorizations which are required in the conduct of its business,
including, but not limited to, any utility joint use attachment agreements.
   (b)   Within 90 days after obtaining all necessary permits, licenses and
authorization, the grantee shall commence construction and installation of the
CATV system.
   (c)   Within one year after obtaining all necessary permits and
authorization, the grantee shall proceed to render service to subscribers in at
least 40 percent of the franchise area for homes within 350 feet of the cable
system, and the completion of the system shall be pursued with reasonable
diligence thereafter with extension of service to the remaining franchise area
within the next succeeding year. Residences for the franchise cable system
shall be offered the option to pay the construction costs for the number of
feet exceeding 350 feet which are required to service such residence.
   (d)   Failure on the part of the grantee to commence and diligently pursue
each of the requirements of this section and to complete each of the matters
set forth in this section, shall be grounds for termination of such franchise,
under and pursuant to the terms of section 14-36; provided, however, the board
of commissioners may extend the time for the commencement and completion of
construction and installation for additional periods in the event the grantee,
acting in good faith, experiences delays by reason of circumstances beyond its
control.
   (e)   The grantee shall file a map with the county at the close of each
franchise year, showing the location and identification of component parts of
the system.
   (f)   As a condition of the franchise, the grantee shall provide television
and data service to all county government facilities, and television service to
the public school facilities without charge.
   (g)   At all points where separate CATV systems are in the same general
area, they shall allow for a coordinated interconnect where technically and
economically feasible, between their systems to allow the flow of data on the
county government channels, the expense to be shared between the grantees.
(Ord. of 10-5-1981, § 12.9; Ord. of 4-3-1995, § 12.9(G))
Sec. 22-40. - Operational requirements.
   (a)   A grantee under this article shall install and maintain a CATV system
which shall be in accordance with the highest and best accepted standards of
the industry to the effect that subscribers shall receive the highest possible
service. In addition, the grantee shall comply with all requirements of duly
constituted regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the operator of the
CATV system.
   (b)   The grantee must have the installation or construction plans approved
by the county prior to construction and must secure all necessary permits at
its expense.
   (c)   When any portion of the CATV system is to be installed on public
utility poles and facilities, a certification that agreements for such joint
use have been entered shall be filed with the county.
   (d)   The grantee shall maintain a local office for the purpose of handling
subscriber complaints and providing prompt maintenance service. The local
office shall be open during all regular business hours, and have a publicly
listed telephone which shall be so operated that complaints and requests for
repairs or adjustments may be received on a 24-hour basis. The grantee shall
establish procedures for receiving, acting upon and resolving subscriber
complaints to the satisfaction of the board of commissioners. The grantee shall
furnish a notice of such procedures to each subscriber at the time of initial
subscription to the system.
(Ord. of 10-5-1981, § 12.10)
Sec. 22-41. - Remuneration to county.
   Within 60 days after the close of its first fiscal year after acceptance of
a franchise, and 60 days after the close of each succeeding quarter thereafter
during the life of the franchise, a grantee under this article shall pay to the
county for the privilege of constructing, operating, and maintaining the CATV
system as defined in section
22-33, and for the privilege of providing the CATV system as defined in section
22-33, during the preceding period, a sum equal to three percent of its gross
revenues during the period. Provided, that if it shall be lawful for the county
to receive a franchise fee or charge in excess of three percent of gross
revenues, any franchise granted under this article may be negotiated or
renegotiated to require a larger percentage of gross revenues to be paid to the
county. Within 45 days after the expiration of the grantee's fiscal year, the
grantee shall file with the county a financial statement prepared by a
certified public accountant, or other person satisfactory to the board of
commissioners showing in detail the gross annual receipts of the grantee during
such fiscal year. The payment of this fee is in addition to any ad valorem
taxes which the county may levy on the grantee's real or personal property and
other regular taxes on businesses. At any time during the three fiscal years
following the payment of the fee, the county shall have the right to inspect
the grantee's records showing the gross subscriber revenue from which these
payments are computed and the right to audit and recomputation of any and all
amounts under this article. Acceptance of payments under this article shall not
be construed as a release or as an accord and satisfaction of any claim the
county may have for further or additional sums payable under this article or
for the performance of any other obligations under this article. In the event
of holding over after expiration or other termination of any franchise granted
under this article, without the consent of the county, the grantee shall pay to
the county reasonable compensation and damages, of not less than 100 percent of
its total gross profits during such period.
(Ord. of 10-5-1981, § 12.11)
Sec. 22-42. - Rights reserved to county.
   (a)   Nothing in this article shall be deemed or construed to impair or
affect, in any way, to any extent, any right of the county to acquire the
property of the grantee, either by purchase or through the exercise of eminent
domain.
   (b)   The county reserves the right to amend any section or part of this
article.
   (c)   At all reasonable times, the grantee shall permit any duly authorized
representative of the county:
   (1)   To examine any and all financial records maintained by or under the
control of the grantee relating to all revenue obtained by it from its
operations under the franchise.
   (2)   To inspect and obtain copies of any or all maps or other diagrams
maintained by or under the control of the grantee showing the location and the
layout of the various components of the CATV system operated by it under its
permit.
   (3)   To inspect any and all installations owned, maintained, or used by the
grantee in its operations under its franchise including all towers, cables and
other components of the grantee's CATV system.
   (d)   The grantee shall indemnify and save harmless the county, its officers
and employees, from and against any and all claims, demands, actions, suits,
and proceedings by others, and against all liability to others, arising out of
the exercise or enjoyment of its franchise, including, but not limited to, any
liability for damages by reason of or arising out of any failure of the grantee
to secure consents from the owners, authorized distributors or licensees of
programs to be delivered by the grantee's CATV system, and against any loss,
cost, expense and damages resulting therefrom, including reasonable attorney's
fees.
   (e)   Concurrently with the filing of the written acceptance, as required in
section
22-35, the grantee shall file with the county manager, and at all times
thereafter maintain in full force and effect for the term of such franchise or
any renewal thereof a good and sufficient liability insurance policy or
policies, providing a minimum coverage for personal injuries to each person in
an amount set from time to time by the board of commissioners and contained in
the schedule of fees and charges on file in the county clerk's office; coverage
for all personal injuries in each accident in an amount set from time to time
by the board of commissioners and contained in the schedule of fees and charges
on file in the county clerk's office; and coverage for all property damage in
each accident in an amount set from time to time by the board of commissioners
and contained in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the county clerk's
office. The policy or policies shall name the county as an additional insured
and shall be for the purpose of insuring the county against any damages to it
and any and all legal liability, court costs, claim or demand for personal
injury, death or property damage arising out of the operations of the grantee
under this article or its franchise. Any coverage of the grantee in addition to
the above minimum limits shall also name the county as an additional insured
and/or beneficiary.
   (f)   Faithful performance bond. The grantee shall, concurrently with the
effective date of the franchise ordinance, post with the county and at all
times thereafter maintain in full force and effect for the term of the
franchise or any renewal thereof, at the grantee's sole cost and expense
either:
   (1)   A corporate surety bond issued by a responsible insurance company
licensed to do business in the state and approved by the county in the amount
of five percent of the total estimated construction costs, renewable annually,
and conditioned upon the faithful performance of the grantee of all the
provisions of the franchise agreement and this article, and upon the further
condition that if the grantee shall fail to comply with any one or more of the
provisions of the franchise agreement or this article, there shall be
recoverable jointly and severally from the principal and surety of such bond
any damages or loss suffered by the county as a result thereof, including the
full amount of any compensation, indemnification, or cost of removal or
abandonment of any property of the grantee as prescribed hereby plus a
reasonable allowance for attorney's fees and costs, up to the full amount of
the bond, such condition to be a continuing obligation for the duration of the
franchise and any renewal thereof and thereafter until the grantee has
liquidated all of its obligations arising out of the acceptance of this
franchise or renewal by the grantee or from the exercise of any privileges or
rights granted in this section or the performance of any covenants or
obligations imposed by this section. The bond shall provide that at least 30
days' prior written notice of intention not to renew, cancellation or material
change, be given to the county by filing the same with the county manager; or
   (2)   A letter of credit in a form approved by the county manager to the
county in the amount of five percent of the estimated construction costs issued
by a local lending institution approved by the county and payable upon demand
by the county. This letter of credit shall be used to protect the county from
the same contingencies as enumerated in subsection (f)(1) of this section for a
corporate surety bond.
(Ord. of 10-5-1981, § 12.12)
Sec. 22-43. - Franchise area and extension of service.
   (a)   Unless otherwise limited by this article, the franchise area shall
include the area specifically described in the franchise or delineated on tax
maps of the county and attached to the franchise. Neither this article nor the
franchise itself shall affect the rights of any other cable television
franchise holding a governmental franchise in the area.
   (b)   Subject to section
22-39(c) the grantee shall make cable television service available to all
residents of the franchise area who apply therefor and are willing to pay the
various service rates and installation and/or reconnection charges established
by the grantee pursuant to the terms of this article, the grantee's application
and franchise ordinance unless the franchise shall specify otherwise.
(Ord. of 10-5-1981, § 12.13)
Sec. 22-44. - Expense reimbursement to county.
   The grantee shall pay the county a sum of money which will reimburse all
costs and expenses incurred by it in connection with preparation of the
franchise agreement, and the granting of a franchise, including, but not
limited to, consultant fees, attorneys' fees, publication fees, travel expenses
and all other direct costs; provided, however, that such costs and expenses
shall not exceed the sum of $2,500.00 and the county shall submit a detailed
schedule of all such costs. Such payment shall be made within 30 days after the
county furnishes the grantee with a written statement of such expenses.
(Ord. of 10-5-1981, § 12.14)
Secs. 22-45—22-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PHONE SERVICES [24] 
   (24) State Law reference—9-1-1 charges, G.S. 62A-3 et seq.
   Sec.
22-71. - 911 charge imposed.
Sec. 22-71. - 911 charge imposed.
   (a)   There is imposed a "911" fee or charge, in an amount set from time to
time by the board of commissioners and contained in the schedule of fees and
charges on file in the county clerk's office, per month for each exchange
access facility, as that term is defined by G.S. 62A-3(4). The fee or charge
shall be charged to each telephone subscriber served by the county enhanced
"911" telephone system.
   (b)   Every service provider, as that term is defined in G.S. 62A-3(8),
providing enhanced "911" services as a part of the county system shall include
the fee in the monthly bill of each telephone subscriber pursuant to the
provisions of G.S. 62A-5.
(Ord. of 2-4-1991)
Chapter 23 - RESERVED
Chapter 24 - UTILITIES [25] 
   (25) Cross reference—Administration,
ch. 2; businesses,
ch. 6; environment,
ch. 12; land development code,
ch. 14; subdivisions, §
14-131 et seq.; design standards for other utilities, §
14-360; stormwater management, §
14-381 et seq.; roads and other public places,
ch. 18; solid waste,
ch. 20.
   (25) State Law reference—Authority to create public enterprises, G.S. 153A-
274 et seq.
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL [26] 
   (26) Editor's note—Amend. of 11-3-2003 amended art. I in its entirety and
enacted similar provisions as set out herein. The former art. I derived from
Ord. of 11-6-2000, §§ 1—9.
   Sec.
24-1. - Authority.
   Sec.
24-2. - Intent.
   Sec.
24-3. - Permit required.
   Sec.
24-4. - Permit application.
   Sec.
24-5. - Enforcement.
   Sec.
24-6. - Hearing.
   Sec.
24-7. - Changes to permitting program.
   Sec.
24-8. - Requirements for connection to public distribution and collection
systems.
   Sec.
24-9. - Ownership of mains.
   Secs. 24-10—24-40. - Reserved.
Sec. 24-1. - Authority.
   The authority of this chapter is granted under G.S. 130A-317(d) and 143-
215.1(f) which provides for a local government to establish and administer its
own approval program in lieu of the state approval of the construction or
alteration of the distribution portion of a public water supply system or a
wastewater collection system.
(Amend. of 11-3-2003)
Sec. 24-2. - Intent.
   The intent of this chapter is to:
   (1)   Establish a local plan approval program to authorize the county to
approve and permit the construction, change to, or operation of water
distribution systems (also known as distribution system in this chapter) or
wastewater collection systems (also known as collection system in this
chapter).
   (2)   Establish authority for the enforcement of the local plan approval
program through misdemeanor sanctions, civil penalties and injunctive relief.
   (3)   Establish county ownership of any private distribution and collection
system, which is extended and constructed under the provisions of this chapter.
(Amend. of 11-3-2003)
Sec. 24-3. - Permit required.
   (a)   No person shall undertake any activity listed in subsection (b) of
this section concerning a distribution system or collection system which is, or
is proposed to become, a part of the county distribution system or collection
system, and is located within the county's utility service area, as such term
is defined in G.S. 143-251.1(f) and 130A-317(d), unless such person shall have
applied for and shall have received from the county a permit therefore, and
shall have complied with such conditions, if any, as are prescribed by such
permit. The term "distribution system" shall mean and include a network of
distribution pipes, hydrants, valves, and related appurtenances but does not
include pumps storage tanks, treatment devices, wells, or other facilities. The
term "collection system" shall mean and include, but not be limited to,
sanitary sewer pipes, valves, air release valves and manholes.
   (b)   Activities prohibited without a permit include:
   (1)   Construction or operation of any distribution system or collection
system;
   (2)   Alteration, extension, or change of the construction or method of
operation of any existing or proposed distribution or collection system; or
   (3)   Entering into a contract for the construction and installation of any
distribution or collection system, or for the alteration or extension of such a
system.
   (c)   Any person proposing to undertake any activity described in subsection
(b) of this section shall make timely and proper application on such forms as
may be prescribed by the director of infrastructure and engineering, or his
designee, (also known as director in this chapter), and provide such
information as may be required by the director. A copy of all applications for
permits subject to this section, of all approved permits and plans, and the
engineer's certification shall be provided to the state Department of
Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) pursuant to applicable law.
   (d)   All distribution or collection systems proposed for connection to the
county distribution or collection system and all proposed modifications to any
existing portion of the county distribution or collection system shall be
designed, constructed and installed in conformance with applicable provisions
of the then current county water and sewer design and construction standards
(also known as county standards in this chapter), and any other county rules,
policies and procedures (also known as county requirements in this chapter).
Any engineering reports, plans, specifications, calculations and profiles
submitted by applicants for new distribution or collection systems and
modifications to existing facilities shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of an engineer licensed to practice in the state, shall bear the
seal of such engineer, and shall be subject to approval by the director. Such
reports, plans, specifications, calculations, and profiles shall be prepared at
the expense of the applicant. The director shall maintain a copy of the current
county standards and county requirements for public inspection.
   (e)   The denial of an application for a permit shall be made in writing and
shall contain each reason for the denial and the county's detailed summary of
the changes in the applicant's proposed activities or plan which will be
required in order that the applicant may obtain a permit. Nothing in such
summary shall preclude or otherwise bar the county from denying a permit, which
incorporates such changes, based upon changed circumstances or information not
previously known by the county.
(Amend. of 11-3-2003)
Sec. 24-4. - Permit application.
   (a)   Each application subject to section
24-3 shall be accompanied by a fee, which shall be set forth in the county's
schedule of charges and fees, an engineer's report, plans, specifications,
calculations, and other necessary project data. A copy of the current fee
schedule shall be maintained by the director and made available for inspection
upon request. The fee shall be subject to adjustment by the board of county
commissioners which shall not constitute an amendment to this chapter. Any
application that is not accompanied by a fee in the proper amount and an
engineer's report may be considered incomplete and shall be returned to the
applicant.
   (b)   The director shall review the fee, engineer's report, plans,
specifications, calculations, and other project data accompanying an
application, and shall determine if the application and accompanying material
are complete and in a form acceptable to the director.
   (c)   The director shall endeavor to take final action on all permit
applications no later than 30 days following receipt of a complete application;
however, no permit shall be issued until final approval has also been given by
the director for any related development plan. Final approval shall be given in
written letter form, dated and signed by the approving authority. All permits
issued shall be in writing; provided, however, in the event construction has
not begun pursuant to an issued permit within one year of the date of the
permit, the permit shall expire and a new permit must be applied for and
obtained by the applicant in accordance with this chapter. Construction and
operation shall strictly conform to the permit requirements. A permit may
contain such conditions as the director determines to be reasonably necessary,
considering the factors on which final action on a permit can be based. Final
action on any permit shall be based upon the design, capacity and manner of
operation of the appropriate county distribution or collection system;
effectuating the purposes of all applicable rules, regulations, statutes and
ordinances of the county, the state, and the United States of America; and on
the county standards and county requirements.
   (d)   If an application under this section is not complete, the application
shall be returned to the applicant. The director shall advise the applicant in
writing:
   (1)   How the application can be modified to make it complete and
acceptable; and
   (2)   That the time for the director to take final action on an application
does not begin until receipt of a complete, corrected application.
   (e)   Any permit issued by the director, pursuant to this chapter, is
subject to revocation, suspension, or modification, in whole or in part, upon
14 days' written notice to the applicant by the director for good cause,
including, but not limited to:
   (1)   Violation of any terms or conditions of this chapter or the permit.
   (2)   Obtaining a permit by misrepresentation or failure to disclose fully
all relevant facts.
   (3)   Refusal of or by the permittee or its contractors, agents or employees
to allow authorized officers, employees or agents of the county, upon
presentation of credentials, to inspect or observe any activity, system, or
other work required by the permittee's permit.
(Amend. of 11-3-2003)
Sec. 24-5. - Enforcement.
   (a)   Any person who violates, fails to comply with, or continues to violate
any provision of this chapter or any permit issued under this chapter shall be
liable to the county for a maximum civil penalty of up to $10,000.00 per
violation per day for as long as the violation continues. Each day on which a
violation shall occur or continue shall be deemed a separate and distinct
violation. In determining the amount of the civil penalty, the director shall
take into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to,
the extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, efforts to correct the violation, the compliance history of the
person against whom the violation is assessed, cost of enforcement to the
county, whether the violation was committed willfully or intentionally, and any
other factor as justice requires.
   (b)   If any person violates the provisions of this chapter or the terms or
conditions of any permit issued under this chapter, a civil action may be
commenced in the general court of justice in the name of the county for such
legal and equitable relief as may be appropriate.
   (c)   The remedies provided in this section are not exclusive. The county
may take any one, all, or any combination of these actions against any person
in violation of the provisions of this chapter or the terms or conditions of
any permit issued under this chapter, or any other action allowed pursuant to
G.S. 153-123.
(Amend. of 11-3-2003)
Sec. 24-6. - Hearing.
   (a)   Persons entitled to hearing. Any person whose application for a permit
under this chapter is denied, any person whose application for a permit is
issued subject to conditions the applicant finds unacceptable, any person whose
permit is revoked or suspended, and any person against whom a penalty is
assessed pursuant to this chapter (each of whom are referred to in this chapter
as aggrieved person) is entitled to a hearing in superior court in the nature
of certiorari pursuant to this section.
   (b)   Demand for hearing. 
   (1)   The aggrieved person shall exercise such right to a hearing by making
a written demand in superior court for a writ of certiorari for a hearing in
accordance with this subsection. A copy of the petition must be forwarded to
the director.
   (2)   Any person making a demand or petition shall file its petition demand
to the director within 30 days of:
      a.   The date of the contested permit;
      b.   The date of the notice of denial of a permit application;
      c.   The date of the notice of a revocation or suspension of an issued
permit; or
      d.   The date a penalty was assessed, as the case may be.
   (c)   Contents of demand. The written demand or petition must identify
separately and with particularity:
   (1)   The aggrieved person;
   (2)   The specific permit provisions or conditions or other issues contested
or to be considered; and
   (3)   The reasons for the objection.
   (d)   Judicial review. Any person against whom a final order or decision of
the director is made, pursuant to the hearing conducted under this section, may
seek judicial review of the order or decision by filing a written petition
within 30 days after the date of notice of the order or decision, but not
thereafter, with the superior court of the county by means of a writ in the
nature of certiorari. If not previously requested, such person shall request in
writing that a transcript be prepared for every part of the hearing that was
recorded. Such request shall be made at or before the time that the petition is
filed. A copy of the petition shall be served on the county in the manner
required by law. Within 30 days after service of a copy of the petition upon
the county or such other time as may be ordered by the court, the county shall
prepare and transmit to the court the original or a certified copy of the
official record of the hearing as set forth in this section. The official
record of the hearing shall consist of all notices, motions and other similar
documents; all documentary and tangible evidence tendered at the hearing; and
the final order or decision. A transcript of each part of the hearing that was
recorded shall be included in the official record as an exhibit, if available
at the time the remaining portion of the official record is transmitted to the
court. If the transcript is not available at that time, it shall be transmitted
to the court as soon as reasonably possible after the transcript has been
prepared. If testimony is taken and not recorded, a narrative summary of any
testimony taken shall be prepared and transmitted to the court as an exhibit to
the official record.
   (e)   Request for review of decision. A person is entitled to a review of
decision. Any person whose application for a permit under this chapter is
denied, any person whose application for a permit is issued subject to
conditions with the applicant deemed unacceptable, any person whose permit is
revoked or suspended and any permit against whom a penalty is assessed pursuant
to section
24-5 may seek a review of the decision pursuant to this section.
   (1)   A request for a review of this decision of the director must be made
within 30 days of the action of the director for which review is sought. The
request for review must set out such additional and further information as the
applicant for review deems appropriate or necessary.
   (2)   The director shall complete his review within 45 days of receipt of
written request for review. The request for review and any response from the
director in response to the request for review may become part of the record in
any hearing of the director's decision.
   (3)   The time required in subsection (d) of this section for a hearing of a
final order or decision of the director is told upon the filing of a request
for review until such time as a written decision issued by the director on the
demand for review.
(Amend. of 11-3-2003)
Sec. 24-7. - Changes to permitting program.
   The county permitting program, as set forth in this chapter, has been
established pursuant to authority contained in G.S. 130A-317 and 143-215.1(f)
and rules promulgated thereunder. Amendments to G.S. 130A-317 and 143-215.1(f)
and rules promulgated thereunder that affect the county permitting program
shall be incorporated into the county permitting program within 60 days of the
effective date of such amendments, or as otherwise required by law.
(Amend. of 11-3-2003)
Sec. 24-8. - Requirements for connection to public distribution and collection
systems.
   (a)   Upon completion of construction or alteration of the distribution and/
or collection system the applicant shall submit certification, which shall bear
the seal of a registered professional engineer licensed to practice in the
state, that construction is completed in substantial accordance with approved
plans. Certification shall be based upon adequate observations made by the
engineer or a supervised employee.
   (b)   Both the distribution and collection system of any private development
will be 100 percent completed, tested, sterilized and approved for use before
any connection to the county systems will be performed.
(Amend. of 11-3-2003)
Sec. 24-9. - Ownership of mains.
   All mains extended and constructed under this chapter shall be of such size
and material and shall be installed in such manner as contained in the county's
standards. All mains so constructed or extended shall be and remain the
property of the county.
(Amend. of 11-3-2003)
Secs. 24-10—24-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - WATER SERVICE [27] 
   (27) Cross reference—Design standards for water and sewer, §
14-359.
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY
   Secs. 24-41—24-70. - Reserved.
Secs. 24-41—24-70. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - WATER CONSERVATION [28] 
   (28) Editor's note—Amend. of 3-3-2008(2) amended div. 2 in its entirety and
enacted similar provisions as set out herein. The former div. 2 derived from
Ord. of 8-4-1997, §§ I—VII.
   Sec.
24-71. - Purpose.
   Sec.
24-72. - Definitions.
   Sec.
24-73. - Compliance and enforcement.
   Sec.
24-74. - Declaration of a water shortage advisory.
   Sec.
24-75. - Declaration of a water shortage alert.
   Sec.
24-76. - Declaration of a water shortage emergency.
   Sec.
24-77. - Declaration of a water distribution crisis.
   Sec.
24-78. - Shortage water rates.
   Sec.
24-79. - Substitute Officers.
   Sec.
24-80. - Adoption and amendment of water conservation ordinance.
   Secs. 24-81—24-100. - Reserved.
Sec. 24-71. - Purpose.
   The purpose of this division is to declare the official phases of a water
supply shortage and to provide for the implementation of voluntary and
mandatory water conservation measures throughout the service areas of the
County Department of Public Utilities in the event a shortage is declared. The
service area includes all areas within and outside the county which are served
or supplied in whole or in part by the County water supply system.
(Amend. of 3-3-2008(2))
Sec. 24-72. - Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Administrative variance means a written exemption prior to the commission of
a violation granted by the County Manager to a customer when a water shortage
declaration as defined by this division is issued by the Board of
Commissioners.
   Customer means any person, government, or entity using water directly or
indirectly for any purpose from the County Department of Public Utilities water
supply system, and for which a regular charge is made.
   JCDPU means the Johnston County Department of Public Utilities acting
through the Utilities Director or the County Manager.
   Penalty(ies) means a monetary assessment charged to the customer's water
bill after first receiving a written warning that a violation as defined in
this division has been committed or the time-limited period of an acquired
permit or administrative variance has expired.
   Waste of water means, but is not limited to, the failure to repair a
controllable leak of water due to defective plumbing or deliberate nonessential
use of water.
   Water means water available to JCDPU for treatment and supply or any source
of purchased water introduced by JCDPU into its transmission facilities.
   Water restriction(s) means a declared deviation from unlimited demand on the
available water supply as established in this division and imposed from time to
time by the Board of Commissioners through administrative policy adoption or
public notice that is subject to enforcement and/or permitting by the Director
of JCDPU.
   Water shortage advisory means the conditions exist which indicate the
potential for water supply shortages:
   (1)   The raw water supply (streamflow) is consistently below seasonal
averages. If the raw water supply continues to decline, the supply may not be
adequate to meet normal needs; or
   (2)   Due to mechanical failure or capacity limitations of water treatment
and/or pumping facilities, adequate water supplies cannot be maintained and the
conditions may be sufficient to cause a water shortage; or
   (3)   Due to circumstance outside the control of the County, purchased bulk
water supply(ies) are reduced for curtailed possibly resulting in a water
shortage.
   Water shortage alert means conditions exist which, if continued, will result
in insufficient supply of water:
   (1)   The raw water supply is below the level necessary to meet normal
needs; or
   (2)   Due to mechanical failure or capacity limitations of water treatment
and/or pumping facilities, a water shortage is subject to occur; or
   (3)   Due to reduction or curtailment of purchased bulk supply(ies), a water
shortage is subject to occur.
   Water shortage emergency means available water supply is insufficient to
meet normal water usage demand:
   (1)   The raw water supply is below the level necessary to meet normal needs
and serious water shortages exist; or
   (2)   Due to mechanical failure or capacity limitations of water treatment
and/or pumping facilities, a water shortage exists; or
   (3)   Due to reduction or curtailment of purchased supply(ies), a water
shortage exists.
   Water use class means and shall be established as follows:
   (1)   Class 1, essential water uses. 
      •Domestic use: Water necessary to sustain human life and animal life, and
to maintain minimum standards of hygiene and sanitation.
      •Health care use: Patient care and rehabilitation.
      •Public use: Firefighting, health, safety, and public protection
purposes; and water necessary to satisfy federal, state, and local health,
safety, and environmental protection requirements.
   (2)   Class 2, socially or economically important uses of water. 
      •Domestic use: All uses other than those included in Class 1 and Class 3.
Residential water use including kitchen, bathroom, and laundry use.
      •Outdoor noncommercial watering (public or private):
      •Industrial water use including water for product manufacturing,
environmental control, and domestic needs of employees and personnel.
      •Agricultural irrigation for the production of food, fiber, and fuel or
maintenance of livestock.
      •Watering by commercial nurseries at a minimum level necessary to
maintain stock, to the extent that sources other than JCDPU are not available
or feasible to use.
      •Watering of golf course greens and tees.
      •Uses of water at a minimum rate necessary to implement revegetation
following earthmoving, where such vegetation is required by an erosion and
sedimentation control plan adopted pursuant to law or regulation to the extent
that sources of water other than JCDPU are not available or feasible to use.
      •Water use by public gardens of national, state, or regional significance
where necessary to preserve specimens, to the extent sources other than JCDPU
are not available or feasible to use.
      •Operating and filling of swimming pools:
      •Municipal pools and private pools.
      •Health care facility pools used for patient care and rehabilitation.
      •Washing of motor vehicles:
      •Commercial impervious surface washing.
      •Commercial car and truck washes, unrestricted hours of operation.
      •Commercial Laundromats:
      •Unrestricted hours of operation.
      •Restaurants, clubs, and eating establishments:
      •Unrestricted hours of operation.
      •Common uses:
      •Unrestricted hours of operation.
      •Institutional uses:
      •Unrestricted hours of operation.
   (3)   Class 3, nonessential uses of water. 
      •Ornamental purposes: Fountains, reflecting pools, and artificial
waterfalls.
      •Outdoor noncommercial watering, private impervious surface washing,
watering, or irrigation: gardens, lawns, golf courses, parks, playing fields,
and other recreational areas.
         - EXCEPTIONS:
            º Agricultural irrigation for the production of food, feed, fiber,
or fuel and the maintenance of livestock.
            º Water used by commercial nurseries at a minimum level necessary
to maintain stock to the extent other sources of water (other than JCDPU) are
not available or feasible to use.
            º Water used by golf courses at a minimum level as necessary to
maintain tees and greens to the extent other sources of water (other than
JCDPU) are not available or feasible to use.
            º Use of JCDPU water at a minimum rate necessary to implement
revegetation following earthmoving, where such vegetation is required pursuant
to an erosion and sedimentation control plan adopted pursuant to law or
regulation (to the extent that sources of water other than JCDPU are not
available or feasible to use).
            º Water used by public gardens of national, state, or regional
significance where necessary to preserve specimens, to the extent sources other
than JCDPU are not available or feasible to use.
      •Operating and filling of public swimming pools:
         - EXCEPTIONS: Health care facility pools used for patient care and
rehabilitation and municipal pools.
      •Washing of motor vehicles: Automobiles, trucks, boats and trailers.
         - EXCEPTIONS: Commercial car and truck washes.
      •Serving water in restaurants, clubs, or eating establishments:
         - EXCEPTIONS: Specific requests by customers.
      •Fire hydrants: Any purpose including the use of sprinkler system tests,
testing of fire equipment, and fire department drills.
         - EXCEPTIONS: Firefighting.
      •Health protection purposes if specifically approved by the health
officials of the county.
      •Testing and drills by fire departments, if in the interest of imminent
public safety and approved by JCDPU.
      •Hydrant and sanitary sewer flushing:
         - EXCEPTIONS: As needed to ensure public safety and health with the
approval of JCDPU.
(Amend. of 3-3-2008(2); Amend. of 4-5-2010)
   Cross reference—Definitions generally, §
1-2.
Sec. 24-73. - Compliance and enforcement.
   (a)   The direct or indirect use of water from the JCDPU distribution system
in violation of this division or any water restriction policy adopted from time
to time by the Board of Commissioners is prohibited. Any customer that violates
or permits the violation of these rules and regulations after first receiving a
written warning shall be subject to the penalties established by the Board of
Commissioners. Following are penalties effective as of April 1, 2008:
 
First Violation:
Meter Size ¾"—1$100.00
           1½"—$250.00
           3"—4"$500.00
           > 4"   $750.00
 
 
Second Violation:
Meter Size ¾"—$250.00
           1½—$500.00
           3"—4$1,000.00
           > 4"  $1,500.00
 
   (b)   Assessed penalties shall be added to the customer's water bill and
paid and collected in the same manner as usage payments to the JCDPU. Each day
a violation occurs shall be considered a separate violation.
   (c)   The Director of JCDPU shall be responsible for the implementation of
these rules and enforcing any restrictions imposed by this division or any
water restriction policy adopted by the Board of Commissioners. If a violation
is known to have occurred, a written violation shall be affixed to the property
where the violation occurred and mailed to the customer of record and any other
person known to the JCDPU who is responsible for the violation and its
correction. The written notice shall describe the violation and order an
immediate compliance with the restrictions within a specified time as
determined reasonable by JCDPU under the circumstances.
   (d)   In event of a third violation or if penalties for previous violations
are not paid, the JCDPU may restrict or terminate water service subject to the
following procedures:
   (1)   The JCDPU shall give the customer notice by mail or by a county
representative that due to reoccurring violations or failure to pay for
previous violations, the water service will be restricted or terminated within
a specific time. The customer will have an opportunity to appeal restriction or
termination by requesting a hearing before an official designated as a hearing
officer by the County Manager. The request for the hearing shall be made to the
County Manager before the cutoff date.
   (2)   If a hearing is requested by the customer charged with the violation,
he/she will be given the opportunity to be heard before service is restricted
or terminated.
   (3)   The hearing officer, after hearing evidence presented, shall order the
water service continued, restricted, or terminated.
   (e)   A fee, in an amount set from time to time by the Board of
Commissioners and contained in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the
County Clerk's office, shall be paid for the reconnection of any water service
restricted or terminated pursuant to subsection (d). In the event of multiple
violations, the reconnection fee shall be in an amount set from time to time by
the Board of Commissioners and contained in the schedule of fees and charges on
file in the County Clerk's office for the second violation and in an amount set
from time to time by the Board of Commissioners and contained in the schedule
of fees and charges on file in the County Clerk's office for each additional
violation.
   (f)   Upon declaration of a water restriction by the Board of Commissioners,
an administrative variance of the restriction may be issued by the County
Manager to an individual, a business or an institution within the affected
water use class(es) prior to the commission of a violation, provided that the
general intent of the water shortage response measure is met, compliance is
proven to cause practical difficulties and unnecessary hardship, and all
reasonable options for abatement through modified water management have been
exhausted. The criteria to determine hardship shall include but not be limited
to the level of capital outlay and time required to achieve compliance.
   (g)   An administrative variance may be issued for a time-limited period and
shall stipulate both short-term corrective measures and a schedule of
completion of long-term corrective measures. An administrative variance may be
renewed for good cause shown. A decision to approve or deny an administrative
variance will be based up on consideration of criteria including but not
limited to: impact on water demand, expected duration of water shortage,
alternative source options, social and economic importance, purpose of water
use, and the prevention of structural damage.
   (h)   An administrative variance must be in executed in writing and filed
with the JCDPU's retail services office within 24 hours of issuance by the
County Manager.
(Amend. of 3-3-2008(2); Amend. of 4-5-2010)
Sec. 24-74. - Declaration of a water shortage advisory.
   If JCDPU determines a potential shortage of water supply is indicated, such
that adequate potable water supplies cannot be maintained, whether the shortage
is caused by drought, mechanical failure, limitations of the water treatment
and/or pumping facilities or curtailment or interruption of purchased bulk
supplies, the County Manager shall be empowered to declare a water shortage
advisory. The director of JCDPU shall monitor the supply and demands on the
system on a daily basis. The County Manager shall call upon all water customers
of JCDPU to employ voluntary water conservation measures to limit water use
(especially Class 3 uses) and to eliminate waste of water. The declaration of a
water shortage advisory and statement by the County Manager shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county, or may be publicized by
any other appropriate method including audio and visual broadcast media. The
effectiveness of water demand reduction from voluntary water conservation
measures will be based on the analysis of daily demand during the advisory
period compared to the most current normal period of daily demand as well as
historical usage trends.
(Amend. of 3-3-2008(2); Amend. of 4-5-2010)
Sec. 24-75. - Declaration of a water shortage alert.
   If JCDPU determines the raw water supply is below the level necessary to
meet normal demands and if the supply continues to decline such that there may
not be sufficient water supply to meet normal demands, there are water
treatment and/or pumping facility limitations, or purchased bulk supply(ies)
are curtailed or interrupted resulting in inadequate supplies of potable water,
the County Manager shall advise the Board of Commissioners and the Board of
Commissioners may declare a water shortage alert. JCDPU shall continue to
encourage voluntary water conservation measures as defined in the advisory
declaration. In the event of such declaration, the Board of Commissioners shall
impose a ban on all Class 3 water uses for the duration of the shortage until
the water shortage has ended as advised by the director. Further, the Board of
Commissioners may direct the County Manager to expand the ban on water uses
beyond Class 3 uses if deemed appropriate, or the Board of Commissioners may
issue an administrative variance as defined in section
24-73 on selected uses, if deemed essential for economic welfare of the service
area. JCDPU shall continue to encourage voluntary water conservation measures
as defined in the advisory declaration. The effectiveness of water demand
reduction from the imposed ban on all Class 3 water uses will be based on the
analysis of daily demand during the alert period compared to the most recent
normal period of daily demand as well as historical usage trends.
(Amend. of 3-3-2008(2); Amend. of 4-5-2010)
Sec. 24-76. - Declaration of a water shortage emergency.
   If JCDPU determines the raw water supply is below the level necessary to
meet normal demands and serious shortages exist and/or there are water
treatment and/or pumping facility limitations or purchased bulk supplies are
curtailed or interrupted resulting in inadequate supplies of potable water, the
County Manager shall advise the Board of Commissioners and the Board of
Commissioner may declare a water shortage emergency. In such event, Class I
essential uses shall be targeted for voluntary conservation initiatives. Class
2 socially or economically important uses and Class 3 nonessential uses shall
be banned. These restrictions shall be enforced until the emergency is declared
ended by the director. However, the Board of Commissioners may issue an
administrative variance according to section
24-73 on selected uses, if deemed essential, for economic welfare of the
service area. The effectiveness of water demand reduction from the imposed ban
on all Class 2 and Class 3 water uses will be based on the analysis of daily
demand during the emergency period compared to the most recent normal period of
daily demand as well as historical usage trends.
(Amend. of 3-3-2008(2); Amend. of 4-5-2010)
Sec. 24-77. - Declaration of a water distribution crisis.
   (a)   In event of mechanical, structural, or other type of failure or
hydraulic limitation of any part of the county water transmission and
distribution system, upon notification by the JCDPU, the County Manager may
declare a water distribution crisis. These restrictions may be imposed by the
County Manager after consideration of all of the following factors:
   (1)   Water pressure at monitoring locations of the JCDPU water distribution
system.
   (2)   Ability to fill elevated water tanks of the JCDPU water distribution
system and/or bulk user tanks.
   (3)   Ability to maintain minimum safe water pressure levels in any portion
of the JCDPU water distribution system.
   (b)   A water distribution crisis for any part or the entire distribution
system may be implemented by the County Manager by issuing a notice of declared
water distribution crisis. The notice shall be in effect beginning with the
date and time specified in the notice and the restrictions imposed shall apply
during the times specified in the notice.
   (c)   During a declared water distribution crisis, the County Manager may
impose the restrictions as for a water shortage alert (see section
24-74) or a water shortage emergency (see section
24-75) at all times or during such limited times as the County Manager upon
advice of the Director of JCDPU, determines to be appropriate. The restrictions
on water use may be limited to a portion(s) of the distribution system or the
entire system as deemed appropriate by the JCDPU and County Manager.
(Amend. of 3-3-2008(2); Amend. of 4-5-2010)
Sec. 24-78. - Shortage water rates.
   Upon the declaration of any level of water supply shortage, as provided in
sections
24-74 through
24-77, the Board of Commissioners shall have the authority to adopt shortage
water rates designed to conserve water supplies. Such rates may provide for:
   (1)   Increasing commodity rates, that is, higher charges per unit for
increasing usage.
   (2)   Surcharges on the (minimum) monthly availability fee.
   (3)   Excess demand surcharge, charges for use in excess of a specific
level.
   (4)   Good citizen rate, discounts for conserving water beyond specified
levels.
   The effectiveness of water demand reduction from the adoption of shortage
water rates will be based on the analysis of daily demand during the
declaration period compared to the most recent normal period of daily demand as
well as historical usage trends.
(Amend. of 3-3-2008(2); Amend. of 4-5-2010)
Sec. 24-79. - Substitute Officers.
   In event the County Manager or the Director of Public Utilities are absent
during a water crisis, their designated surrogates shall be the Chairman of the
Board of Commissioners and the Assistant Director of Public Utilities,
respectively.
(Amend. of 3-3-2008(2))
Sec. 24-80. - Adoption and amendment of water conservation ordinance.
   The water conservation ordinance is filed under the county's Code of
Ordinances which requires the Board of Commissioners to give notice of and hold
a public hearing for any adoption or amendment of ordinances. The water
conservation ordinance is subject to review for amendment at least every five
years, to adapt to new circumstances (e.g. new water sources, etc.), and after
implementation of any declaration of water shortage requiring mandatory
restrictions as defined in section
24-76 (Declaration of a water shortage emergency) and section
24-77 (Declaration of a water distribution crisis) of this division.
(Amend. of 4-5-2010)
Secs. 24-81—24-100. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - SEWER SERVICE [29] 
   (29) Cross reference—Design standards for water and sewer, §
14-359.
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY
   Sec.
24-101. - Purpose and policy.
   Sec.
24-102. - Definitions.
   Sec.
24-103. - Abbreviations.
   Secs. 24-104—24-120. - Reserved.
Sec. 24-101. - Purpose and policy.
   (a)   This article sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the
county, and enables the county to comply with all applicable state and federal
laws, including the Clean Water Act (33 USC 1251 et seq.) and the General
Pretreatment Regulations (40 CFR 403). The objectives of this article are to:
   (1)   Prevent the introduction of pollutants and wastewater discharges into
the municipal wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the
system or contaminate the resulting sludge;
   (2)   Prevent the introduction of pollutants and wastewater discharges into
the municipal wastewater system which will pass through the system,
inadequately treated, into any waters of the state or otherwise be incompatible
with the system;
   (3)   Promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and residuals
from the municipal system;
   (4)   Protect both municipal personnel who may be affected by sewage,
sludge, and effluent in the course of their employment as well as protecting
the general public;
   (5)   Provide for equitable distribution of the cost of operation,
maintenance and improvement of the county’s municipal wastewater system; and
   (6)   Ensure that the municipality complies with its NPDES or nondischarge
permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements and any other federal
or state laws to which the municipal wastewater system is subject.
   (b)   This article provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the municipal wastewater system, through the issuance of
permits to certain nondomestic users and through enforcement of general
requirements for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement
activities, requires user reporting and provides for the setting of fees for
the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program established in
this article.
   (c)   This article shall apply to all users of the municipal wastewater
system, as authorized by G.S. 160A-312 and/or 153A-275. This includes users
connected to collection systems owned by other municipalities where those
collection systems discharge to collection systems owned by Johnston County.
The county shall designate the director of public utilities as the
administrator of the Publicly Owned Treatment Works or POTW and pretreatment
program (referred to as director in this article). Except as otherwise provided
in this article, the director shall administer, implement, and enforce the
provisions of this article. Any powers granted to or imposed upon the director
may be delegated by the director to other county personnel. By discharging
wastewater into the Johnston County wastewater system, industrial users located
outside county limits agree to comply with the terms and conditions established
in this article, as well as any permits, enforcement actions, or orders issued
under this article.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 1.1; Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-102. - Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Act means the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean
Water Act, as amended, 33 USC 1251 et seq.
   Approval Authority means the director of the Division of Water Quality of
the North Carolina Department of Environment, and Natural Resources or his
designee.
   Authorized Representative of the Industrial User means:
   (1)   If the industrial user is a corporation, “authorized representative”
shall mean:
      a.   The president, secretary, or a vice-president of the corporation in
charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs
similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
      b.   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or operation
facilities employing more than 250 persons or having gross annual sales or
expenditures exceeding $25,000,000.00 (in second-quarter 1980 dollars), if
authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in
accordance with corporate procedures.
   (2)   If the industrial user is a partnership or sole proprietorship, an
authorized representative shall mean a general partner or the proprietor,
respectively.
   (3)   If the industrial user is a federal, state or local government
facility, an authorized representative shall mean a director or highest
official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of
the activities of the government facility, or their designee.
   (4)   The individuals described in subsections (1)—(3) of this definition
may designate another authorized representative if the authorization is in
writing, the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for
the overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or
having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and
the written authorization is submitted to the county.
   (5)   If the designation of an authorized representative is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility, or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new authorization satisfying the requirements of
this section must be submitted to the POTW director prior to or together with
any reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
   Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) means the quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20 degrees Celsius, usually expressed as a concentration
(e.g., mg/l).
   Building sewer means a sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a
user to the POTW.
   Bypass means the intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of a
user's treatment facility.
   Categorical standards means National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or
pretreatment standard.
   Commercial establishment and industrial establishment mean any user that has
the potential to use, contribute to or otherwise impact the county's wastewater
collection system or POTW. Such establishments include, but are not limited to,
maintenance facilities, repair facilities and equipment cleaning facilities.
   Control Authority or Johnston County. Refers to the POTW organization if the
POTW organization's Pretreatment Program approval has not been withdrawn.
   Cooking establishment means any establishment primarily engaged in the
activities of cooking, preparing, serving or otherwise making available for
human consumption any form of foodstuff, and which uses one or more of the
following cooking or preparation methods in connection with such activities;
cooking or preparation by frying (all methods), baking (all methods), grilling,
sauteing, rotisserie cooking, broiling (all methods), boiling, blanching,
roasting, toasting, poaching, or any type of cooking or preparation that
produces a hot nonpotable product in or on a receptacle that requires washing,
rinsing or other form of cleaning. Such establishments include, but are not
limited to, restaurants, cafeterias, extended care facilities, school
cafeterias (public and private), and daycare facilities where meals for more
than six children are prepared, served or otherwise made available for human
consumption.
   County means the County of Johnston, North Carolina, and its utility service
area.
   County Manager means the chief executive/chief operating of the county who
is appointed by and serves at the pleasure of the board of commissioners.
   EPA means the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or where appropriate the
term may also be used as a designation for the administrator or other duly
authorized official of that agency.
   Grab sample means a sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time
basis without regard to the flow in the waste stream and over a period of time
not to exceed 15 minutes.
   Grease means all greases, grease complexes, fats, oils, scum, sludges and
all other organic polar compounds derived from animal and/or plant sources that
contain multiple carbon chain triglyceride molecules. Such substances are
detectable and measurable using analytical procedures established in 40 CFR
136.
   Grease trap and grease interceptor mean a device for separating and
retaining waterborne greases before the wastewater which contains such grease
exits the grease trap or interceptor into the county's wastewater collection
system or POTW. The grease trap or interceptor also collects settleable solids
generated by or incidental to commercial, industrial and food preparation
activities.
   Holding tank waste means any waste from holding tanks, including, but not
limited to, such holding tanks as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers,
septic tanks, and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   Indirect discharge and discharge mean the discharge or the introduction from
any nondomestic source regulated under section 307(b), (c), or (d) of the act,
(33 USC 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into the
system).
   Industrial user and user mean any person which is a source of indirect
discharge.
   Instantaneous maximum allowable discharge limits means the maximum
concentration of a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time, determined
from the analysis of any discrete or composited sample collected, independent
of the industrial flow rate and the duration of the sampling event.
   Interference means the inhibition, or disruption of the POTW collection
system, treatment processes, operations, or its sludge process, use, or
disposal, which causes or contributes to a violation of any requirement of the
Control Authority's (and/or POTW's, if different from the Control Authority)
NPDES, collection system, or nondischarge permit or prevents sewage sludge use
or disposal in compliance with specified applicable state and federal statutes,
regulations, or permits. The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or
disposal by the POTW in accordance with section 405 of the act, (33 USC 1345)
or any criteria, guidelines, or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid
Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (42 USC 6901 et seq.), the Clean Air Act, the Toxic
Substances Control Act, the Marine Protection Research and Sanctuary Act
(MPRSA) or more stringent state criteria (including those contained in any
state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to title IV of SWDA) applicable
to the method of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
   Medical waste means isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and
blood products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
   National Categorical Pretreatment Standard or categorical standard means any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in
accordance with sections 307(b) and (c) of the act (33 USC 1317) which applies
to a specific category of industrial users, and which appears in 40 CFR chapter
1, subchapter N, parts 405—471.
   National Pollution Discharge Elimination System or NPDES permit means a
permit issued pursuant to section 402 of the act (33 USC 1342), or pursuant to
G.S. 143-215.1 by the state under delegation from EPA.
   National Prohibitive Discharge Standard and prohibitive discharge standard
mean absolute prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these
prohibitions appear in section
24-121 and are developed under the authority of 307(b) of the act and 40 CFR
403.5.
   New source means
   (1)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there
may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced after the
publication of proposed categorical pretreatment standards under section 307(c)
of the act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with section 307(c), provided that the:
      a.   Building, structure, facility, or installation is constructed at a
site at which no other source is located;
      b.   Building, structure, facility, or installation totally replaces the
process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at an
existing source; or
      c.   Production or wastewater generating processes of the building,
structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of an
existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source should
be considered.
   (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located results
in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not create
a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the criteria of
subsection (1)b or c of this definition but otherwise alters, replaces, or adds
to existing process or production equipment.
   (3)   For purposes of this definition, construction of a new source has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
      a.   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
         1.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
         2.   Significant site preparation work, including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is
necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source facilities
or equipment; or
      b.   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase of
facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation within a
reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or
modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering,
and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this
definition.
   Noncontact cooling water means water used for cooling which does not come
into direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product,
or finished product.
   Noncooking establishment means any establishment primarily engaged in the
rendering or preparation of pre-cooked foodstuffs that do not require or
involve any form of cooking. Such establishments include, but are not limited
to, establishments that are primarily engaged in the rendering preparation of
cold dairy and frozen foodstuffs.
   Non-discharge Permit means a permit issued by the State pursuant to N.C.G.S.
143-215.1 (d) for a waste which is not discharged directly to surface waters of
the State or for a wastewater treatment works which does not discharge directly
to surface waters of the State.
   Pass Through means a discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the state
in quantities or concentrations which, alone or with discharges from other
sources, causes a violation, including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation, of the POTW's NPDES, collection system, or nondischarge permit,
or a downstream water quality standard even if not included in the permit.
   Person means any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. This definition includes all Federal, State, and local government
entities.
   pH means a measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a substance, expressed as
standard units, and calculated as the logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of
the concentration of hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
   Pollutant means any "waste" as defined in N.C.G.S. 143-213(18) and dredged
spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge,
munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive
materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and
industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste and certain characteristics of
wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, metals, BOD, COD,
toxicity, and odor).
   POTW Director means the chief administrative officer of the Control
Authority or his/her delegate.
   POTW Treatment Plant means that portion of the POTW designed to provide
treatment to wastewater.
   Pretreatment and Treatment means the reduction of the amount of pollutants,
the elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise
introducing such pollution into a POTW collection system and/or treatment
plant. The reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or
biological processes, or process changes or other means, except as prohibited
by 40 CFR Part 403.d(d).
   Pretreatment Program means the program for the control of pollutants
introduced into the POTW from non-domestic sources which was developed by
Johnston County in compliance with 40 CFR 403.8 and approved by the approval
authority as authorized by N.C.G.S. 143-215.3(a)(14) in accordance with 40 CFR
403.11.
   Pretreatment requirements means any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard.
   Pretreatment standards means prohibited discharge standards, categorical
standards, or local limit which applies to an industrial user.
   Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW) or Municipal Wastewater System means a
treatment works as defined by section 212 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. §1292) which
is owned in this instance by the county. This definition includes any devices
or systems used in the collection, storage, treatment, recycling, and
reclamation of municipal sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature. It
also includes sewers, pipes, and other conveyances only if they convey
wastewater to the POTW treatment plant including those owned by other
municipalities. For the purposes of this ordinance, "POTW" shall also include
any sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside the county
who are, by contract or agreement with the county, or in any other way, users
of the POTW of the county.
   Severe property damage means substantial physical damage to property, damage
to the user's treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property damage does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   Significant Industrial User means any industrial user that discharges
wastewater into a publicly owned treatment works and that:
   (1)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons or more of process wastewater
to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler blowdown).
   (2)   Contributes more than 5% of any design or treatment capacity (i.e.,
allowable pollutant load) of the wastewater treatment plant receiving the
indirect discharge, or
   (3)   Is subject to Categorical Pretreatment Standards under 40 CFR Part
403.6 and 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471, or
   (4)   Is designated as such by the Control Authority on the basis that the
industrial user has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's
operation, or for violating any Pretreatment Standard or requirement, or for
contributing to violations of the POTW's effluent limitations and conditions in
its NPDES or non-discharge permit, or for contributing to violations of the
POTW's receiving stream standard, or for limiting the POTW's sludge disposal
option.
   (5)   Subject to division approval under 15A NCAAC 02H .0907 (b), the
Control Authority may determine that an Industrial User meeting the criteria in
paragraphs (A) and (B) above has no reasonable potential for adversely
affecting the POTW's operation or for violating any Pretreatment Standards or
requirement, or for contributing to violations of the POTW's effluent
limitations and conditions in its NPDES or non-discharge permit, or for
contributing to violations of the POTW's receiving stream standard, or for
limiting the POTW's sludge disposal options, and is not a Significant
Industrial User.
   Significant Noncompliance or SNC means a status of noncompliance. A
Significant Industrial User or an Industrial User is in SNC when one or more of
the following criteria are met:
   (1)   Violations of wastewater discharge limits.
      a.   Chronic Violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which sixty-six percent or more of all the measurements taken for the
same pollutant parameter (not including flow) during a six month period exceed
(by any magnitude) a numeric Pretreatment Standard or Requirement including
instantaneous limits, as defined by 40 CFR Part 403.3(1).
      b.   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations. Defined here as those in
which thirty-three percent or more of all the measurements taken for the same
pollutant parameter during a six month period equal or exceed the product of
the numeric Pretreatment Standard or Requirement including instantaneous
limits, as defined by 40 CFR 403.3 (1) multiplied by the applicable TRC; TRC =
1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats oil and grease, 1.2 for all other pollutants (except
flow and pH);
      c.   Any other violation of a Pretreatment Standard or Requirement as
defined by 40 CFR Part 403.3(1) (daily maximum, long term average,
instantaneous limit, or narrative standard) the Control Authority and/or POTW
determines has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges,
interference or pass through (including endangering the health of POTW
personnel or the general public);
      d.   Any discharge of a pollutant or wastewater that has caused imminent
endangerment to human health/welfare or to the environment or has resulted in
either the Control Authority's or the POTW's (if different from the Control
Authority) exercise of its emergency authority under 40 CFR Part 403.8 (f) (1)
(vi) (B) and this article to halt or prevent such a discharge.
   (2)   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, contained in a
pretreatment permit or enforcement order, for starting construction, completing
construction, and attaining final compliance by 90 days or more after the
schedule date.
   (3)   Failure to provide reports for compliance schedule, self-monitoring
data, baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports, and periodic
compliance reports within 45 days from the due date.
   (4)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance.
   (5)   Any other violation or group of violations that the Control Authority
and/or POTW determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of
the local pretreatment program.
   Slug Load or Discharge means any discharge at a flow rate or concentration
which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass-through, or in
any other way violates the POTW's regulations, local limits, or Industrial User
Permit Conditions. This can include but is not limited to spills and other
accidental discharges; discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature; a non-
customary batch discharge; or any other discharges that can cause a violation
of the prohibited discharge standards in Section
24-121 of this ordinance.
   Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) means a classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of
the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1987.
   Storm Water means any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting from such precipitation.
   Superintendent and director/superintendent mean the person designated by the
director to supervise the operation of the publicly owned treatment works and
who is charged with certain duties and responsibilities by this article, or his
duly authorized representative.
   Suspended solids means the total suspended matter that floats on the surface
of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which is
removable by laboratory filtering.
   Upset means an exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and
temporary noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of
factors beyond the reasonable control of the user. An upset does not include
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive
maintenance, or careless or improper operation.
   Wastewater means the liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes
from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, mobile sources,
treatment facilities and institutions, together with any groundwater, surface
water, and stormwater that may be present, whether treated or untreated, which
are contributed into or permitted to enter the POTW.
   Wastewater permit means a permit as set forth in section
24-172.
   Waters of the state means all streams, rivers, brooks, swamps, sounds, tidal
estuaries, bays, creeks, lakes, waterways, reservoirs and all other bodies or
accumulations of water, surface or underground, natural or artificial, public
or private, which are contained within, flow through, or border upon the state
or any portion of the state.
   This ordinance is gender neutral and the masculine gender shall include the
feminine and vice-versa.
   "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive or discretionary.
   The use of the singular shall be construed to include the plural and the
plural shall include the singular as indicated by the context of its use.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 1.2(a); Ord. of 12-3-2000; Amend. of 3-3-2008(3); Ord. of
3-4-2013)
   Cross reference—Definitions generally, §
1-2.
Sec. 24-103. - Abbreviations.
   The following abbreviations, when used in this article, shall have the
designated meanings:
BOD 5   Biochemical oxygen demand
CFR      Code of Federal Regulations
COD      Chemical oxygen demand
EPA      Environmental Protection Agency
gpd      Gallons per day
l        Liter
mg       Milligrams
mg/l     Milligrams per liter
N.C.G.S. North Carolina General Statutes
NPDES    National Pollution Discharge Elimination System
O&amp;M  Operation and maintenance
POTW     Publicly-owned treatment works
RCRA     Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SIC      Standard Industrial Classification
SWDA     Solid Waste Disposal Act
TSS      Total suspended solids
TKN      Total Kjeldahl nitrogen
USC      United States Code
 
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 1.2(e) ; Amend. of 3-3-2008(3); Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Secs. 24-104—24-120. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - USE REQUIREMENTS
   Sec.
24-121. - Prohibited discharge standards.
   Sec.
24-122. - National Categorical Pretreatment Standards.
   Sec.
24-123. - Local limits.
   Sec.
24-124. - State requirements.
   Sec.
24-125. - Right of revision.
   Sec.
24-126. - Dilution.
   Sec.
24-127. - Pretreatment of wastewater.
   Sec.
24-128. - Grease trap and interceptor installation, maintenance, recordkeeping
and removal.
   Sec.
24-129. - Accidental discharge/slug control plans.
   Sec.
24-130. - Hauled wastewater.
   Secs. 24-131—24-150. - Reserved.
Sec. 24-121. - Prohibited discharge standards.
   (a)   General prohibitions. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the POTW, directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater
which causes interference or pass through. These general prohibitions apply to
all users of a POTW whether or not the user is a significant industrial user or
subject to any national, state, or local pretreatment standards or
requirements.
   (b)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the POTW the following pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
   (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140 degrees Fahrenheit (60 degrees Celsius) using the test methods
specified in 40 CFR 261.21.
   (2)   Ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shaving, metal, glass, septic tank
sludge, hair, bones, feathers, tar, plastics, resins, paint, wood, paunch
manure, butcher's offal, dead animals, recognizable portions of the human or
animal anatomy or any other solids or viscous substances capable of causing
obstructions to the flow in wastewater lines, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater collection system, pumping facilities, or
the wastewater treatment plant.
   (3)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through.
   (4)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 6.0 or more than 9.0 or
wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage to the
POTW or equipment.
   (5)   Any wastewater containing pollutants, including oxygen-demanding
pollutants, (BOD, etc.) in sufficient quantity, (flow or concentration), either
singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to cause interference with the
POTW.
   (6)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150 degrees
Fahrenheit (66 degrees Celsius), or which will inhibit biological activity in
the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case wastewater
which causes the temperature at the introduction into the treatment plant to
exceed 104 degrees Fahrenheit (40 degrees Celsius).
   (7)   Any pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems.
   (8)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the director in accordance with section
24-129.
   (9)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids or other
wastewater which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are
sufficient to create a public nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to
prevent entry into the sewers for maintenance and repair.
   (10)   Any substance which may cause the POTW's effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges, or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case,
shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance
with sludge use or disposal regulations or permits issued under section 405 of
the act; the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances
Control Act, or state criteria applicable to the sludge management method being
used.
   (11)   Any wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, including, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts sufficient color to the treatment
plant's effluent to render the waters injurious to public health or secondary
recreation or to aquatic life and wildlife or to adversely affect the
palatability of fish or aesthetic quality or impair the receiving waters for
any designated uses.
   (12)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except
as specifically approved by the director in compliance with applicable state or
federal regulations.
   (13)   Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, artesian well water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water and unpolluted industrial wastewater, unless
specifically authorized by the director.
   (14)   Fats, oils, or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than 50 mg/l, unless specifically authorized by the
director.
   (15)   Any sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
any wastes, including industrial wastes.
   (16)   Any medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the director
in a wastewater discharge permit.
   (17)   Any material containing ammonia, ammonia salts, or other chelating
agents which will produce metallic complexes that interfere with the municipal
wastewater system.
   (18)   Any material that would be identified as hazardous waste according to
40 CFR 261 if not disposed of in a sewer except as may be specifically
authorized by the director.
   (19)   Any wastewater causing the treatment plant effluent to violate state
water quality standards for toxic substances as described in 15A NCAC 2B .0200.
   (20)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources, the
treatment plant's effluent to fail a toxicity test.
   (21)   Recognizable portions of the human or animal anatomy.
   (22)   Any wastes containing detergents, surface active agents, or other
substances which may cause excessive foaming in the municipal wastewater
system.
   (c)   Explosion hazard meter readings. At no time shall two successive
readings on an explosion hazard meter, at the point of discharge into the
system (or at any point in the system) be more than five percent nor any single
reading over ten percent of the lower explosive limit (LEL) of the meter.
   (d)   Discharges into user's pretreatment facility. Pollutants, substances,
wastewater, or other wastes prohibited by this section shall not be processed
or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged to the municipal
wastewater system. All floor drains located in process or materials storage
areas must discharge to the industrial user's pretreatment facility before
connecting with the system.
   (e)   Action by director. When the director determines that a user is
contributing to the POTW, any of the substances listed in subsection (b) of
this section in such amounts which may cause or contribute to interference of
POTW operation or pass through, the director shall:
   (1)   Advise the user of the potential impact of the contribution on the
POTW in accordance with section
24-241; and
   (2)   Take appropriate actions in accordance with division 4 of this article
for such user to protect the POTW from interference or pass through.
   (f)   Nonindustrial users. For nonindustrial users, the director may
delegate the responsibility of enforcement of these prohibitions to the local
municipality to which the user is connected.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 2.1; Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-122. - National Categorical Pretreatment Standards.
   (a)   Users subject to categorical pretreatment standards are required to
comply with applicable standards as set out in 40 CFR chapter 1, subchapter N,
parts 405—471 and incorporated in this section.
   (b)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
director may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance with
40 CFR 403.6(c).
   (c)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the director shall
impose an alternate limit using the combined wastestream formula in 40 CFR
403.6(e).
   (d)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment standard
if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive provisions in
40 CFR 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally
different from the factors considered by EPA when developing the categorical
pretreatment standard.
   (e)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard in
accordance with 40 CFR 403.15.
   (f)   A user may request a removal credit adjustment to a categorical
standard in accordance with 40 CFR 403.7.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 2.2; Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-123. - Local limits.
   (a)   An industrial waste survey is required prior to a user discharging
wastewater containing in excess of the following average discharge limits.
BOD 5                 250 mg/l
COD                    500 mg/l
TSS                    250 mg/l
Fats, Oils, and Grease 100 mg/l
T.D.S.                 1,000 mg/l
Total Nitrogen         40 mg/l
Total Phosphorus       8 mg/l
Arsenic                0.003 mg/l
Cadmium                0.003 mg/l
Copper                 0.061 mg/l
Cyanide                0.015mg/l
Lead                   0.049 mg/l
Mercury                0.0003 mg/l
Nickel                 0.021 mg/l
Silver                 0.005 mg/l
Chromium(total)        0.05 mg/l
Zinc                   0.175 mg/l
Ammonia                25 mg/l
 
   (b)   Industrial waste survey information will be used to develop user-
specific local limits when necessary to ensure that the POTW's maximum
allowable headworks loading is not exceeded for particular pollutants of
concern. User-specific local limits for appropriate pollutants of concern shall
be included in wastewater permits. The director may impose mass based limits in
addition to or in place of concentration based limits.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 2.3; Amend. of 3-3-2008(3); Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-124. - State requirements.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this article.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 2.4; Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-125. - Right of revision.
   The county reserves the right to establish limitations and requirements
which are more stringent than those required by either state or federal
regulation if deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented in
section
24-101 or the general and specific prohibitions in section
24-121, as is allowed by 40 CFR 403.4.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 2.5; Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-126. - Dilution.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the National
Categorical Pretreatment Standards, unless expressly authorized by an
applicable pretreatment standard, or in any other pollutant-specific limitation
developed by the county or the state.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 2.6; Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-127. - Pretreatment of wastewater.
   (a)   Pretreatment facilities. Users shall provide wastewater treatment as
necessary to comply with this article and wastewater permits issued under
section
24-172 and shall achieve compliance with all National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out in section
24-121 within the time limitations as specified by EPA, the state, or the
director, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for compliance
shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the users expense. Detailed
plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be
submitted to the county for review, and shall be approved by the director
before construction of the facility. The review of such plans and operating
procedures shall in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of
modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the
county under the provisions of this article. Any subsequent changes in the
pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported to and be
approved by the director prior to the user's initiation of the changes.
   (b)   Additional pretreatment measures. 
   (1)   Whenever deemed necessary, the director may require users to restrict
their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain wastewater be
discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate points of
discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams, and such
other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine the
users compliance with the requirements of this article.
   (2)   The director may require any person discharging into the POTW to
install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable
storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A wastewater
discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
   (3)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the director, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand; except that
such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. Grease trap and
interceptor installation, maintenance, recordkeeping and removal shall comply
with section
24-128.
   (4)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
   (c)   Nonindustrial users. For nonindustrial users, the director may
delegate the responsibility of enforcement of this section to the local
municipality to which the user is connected.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 2.7; Ord. of 12-3-2001; Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-128. - Grease trap and interceptor installation, maintenance,
recordkeeping and removal.
   (a)   No later than one year after adoption of the ordinance from which this
section is derived, all users shall install grease traps or interceptors
designed to limit the introduction, contribution and discharge of grease into
the county's wastewater collection system or POTW. Grease traps and
interceptors with appropriate sampling or inspection points shall be installed
at the user's expense whenever any user operates a commercial establishment,
industrial establishment, or a cooking establishment. Grease traps and
interceptors must have a minimum capacity of 1,000 gallons or more as required
to effect a grease concentration maximum of 200 mg/l.
   (b)   Alternative methods of compliance may be approved by the county if the
user demonstrates that compliance with this section is impossible or
impractical at the time of adoption of this section as a result of limited
space. However, any such proposed alternative method of compliance will be
required to meet the performance criteria specified in subsection (a) of this
section, and the user must adequately demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
county that the proposed alternative method will satisfy those performance
criteria. In addition, any such alternative method must be cleaned at a more
frequent interval than is required of grease traps and interceptors under
subsection (e) of this section. Prior to approval of any such proposed
alternative method of compliance, documentation of the proposed method's actual
performance criteria must be submitted to the county's pretreatment coordinator
or operations director for review and approval.
   (c)   Grease traps and interceptors may also be required in other
facilities, as deemed necessary by the county's pretreatment coordinator or
operations director.
   (d)   Upon the prior written approval of the operations director, noncooking
establishments may be exempted from the requirements of this section after an
inspection of the subject premises and submission of adequate supporting
documentation, as deemed necessary in the sole and absolute discretion of the
operations director. At a minimum, such supporting documentation shall include:
blueprints of the subject premises, a full and detailed description of the
operations and activities at the subject premises, and a full and detailed list
of all potential sources of grease at the subject premises.
   (e)   Users shall empty and service grease traps and interceptors to comply
with the performance criteria in subsection (a) of this section as often as
necessary, but in any event no longer than every 60 days. Under-the-counter
types of grease traps and interceptors shall be cleaned at least daily, and
shall comply with the performance criteria in subsection (a) of this section.
There shall be no reintroduction of wastewater back into the grease trap or
interceptor unless and until the wastewater has been proven to contain 200 mg/
l or less of grease. Under no circumstances shall the sludge or scum layer be
introduced or discharged into the county's wastewater collection system or
POTW.
   (f)   Users shall supply:
   (1)   An adequate sampling point downstream of the grease trap or
interceptor, prior to mixing with other sanitary flows;
   (2)   An accessible entry into each chamber of the grease trap or
interceptor.
   The minimum requirement for the sampling point shall be a four-inch vertical
clean-out.
   (g)   Users shall retain detailed records on the site for a minimum of three
years reflecting all maintenance carried out pursuant to this section. At a
minimum, such records shall contain the following information: date of service,
name of the employee involved, and a receipt reflecting all services rendered
by the waste hauler providing the service.
   (h)   Users are required to keep the grease trap or interceptor free of
inorganic solids such as grit, towels, gloves, cigarettes, eating utensils,
etc., which could clog or settle in the trap or interceptor, thereby reducing
the effective volume or capacity of the trap or interceptor.
   (i)   Users are required to ensure that all waste material removed from
grease traps and interceptors is disposed of in a manner that complies with all
federal, state and local statutes, rules, regulations, policies and ordinances.
   (j)   Except as provided in this section, for a period of one year following
the adoption of this section, no enforcement actions will be taken under this
section for failure to achieve the performance criteria specified in subsection
(a) of this section. If, during such period, an obstruction of any of the
county's sanitary sewer mains occurs and causes a sewer overflow, spill, leak
or other event with any environmental impact, and such overflow, spill, leak or
other event may be attributed in part or in whole to a particular user, then
the county will seek enforcement action under this article, and/or the
pretreatment enforcement plan. For purposes of this section, an overflow,
spill, leak or other event shall be deemed to have an environmental impact when
such overflow or other vent involves an amount of wastewater equal to or in
excess of 1,000 gallons, or any amount of wastewater reaches any body of
surface water.
(Ord. of 12-3-2001; Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-129. - Accidental discharge/slug control plans.
   (a)   The POTW director shall evaluate whether each significant industrial
user needs a plan or other action to control and prevent slug discharges
defined in Section
24-102.
All SIUs must be evaluated within one year of being designated an SIU. The
director may require any user to develop, submit for approval, and implement
such a plan or action. Alternatively, the director may develop such a plan for
any user.
   (b)   All SIUs are required to notify the POTW immediately of any changes at
its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental discharge,
discharge on a non routine, episodic nature, a non-customary batch discharge,
or a slug load. Also see Sections
24-195 and
24-196.
   (c)   An accidental discharge/slug control plan shall address, at a minimum,
the following:
   (1)   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
   (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
   (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the director of any accidental or
slug discharge, as required by section
24-196; and
   (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to:
      a.   Inspection and maintenance of storage areas;
      b.   Handling and transfer of materials;
      c.   Loading and unloading operations;
      d.   Control of plant site runoff;
      e.   Worker training;
      f.   Building of containment structures or equipment;
      g.   Measures for containing toxic organic pollutants, including
solvents; and/or
      h.   Measures and equipment for emergency response.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 2.8; Ord. of 12-3-2001; Amend. of 3-3-2008(3); Ord. of 3-
4-2013)
Sec. 24-130. - Hauled wastewater.
   (a)   Domestic septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at
locations designated by the director, and at such times as are established by
the director. Such waste shall not violate this division or any other
requirements established by the county. The director may require septic tank
waste haulers to obtain wastewater discharge permits.
   (b)   The director shall require haulers of industrial waste to obtain
wastewater discharge permits. The director may require generators of hauled
industrial waste to obtain wastewater discharge permits. The director also may
prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial waste. The discharge of hauled
industrial waste is subject to all other requirements of this article.
   (c)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the director. No load may be discharged without prior consent of
the director or his designated representative. The director may collect samples
of each hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The
director may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of
any load prior to discharge.
   (d)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for every
load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of wastes. The
form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste
constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 2.9; Ord. of 12-3-2001; Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Secs. 24-131—24-150. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - FEES
   Sec.
24-151. - Purpose.
   Sec.
24-152. - User charges.
   Sec.
24-153. - Surcharges.
   Sec.
24-154. - Pretreatment program administration charges.
   Secs. 24-155—24-170. - Reserved.
Sec. 24-151. - Purpose.
   It is the purpose of this division to provide for the recovery of costs from
users of the wastewater disposal system of the county for the implementation of
the program established in this article. The applicable charges or fees shall
be set forth in a schedule of sewer use charges and fees by the director and
approved by the Board of Commissioners. A copy of these charges and fees will
be made available from the director.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 3.1; Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-152. - User charges.
   A user charge shall be levied on all users including, but not limited to,
persons, firms, corporations or governmental entities that discharge cause or
permit the discharge of sewage into the POTW.
   (a)   The user charge shall reflect, at least, the cost of debt service and
operation and maintenance (including replacement) of the POTW.
   (b)   Each user shall pay its proportionate cost based on volume of flow.
   (c)   The director shall review annually the sewage contributions of users,
the total costs of debt service, operation and maintenance of the POTW and will
make recommendations to Johnston County Manager and the Board of Commissioners
for adjustments in the schedule of charges and fees as necessary.
   (d)   Charges for flow to the POTW not directly attributable to the users
shall be distributed among all users of the POTW based upon the volume of flow
of the users.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 3.2; Amend. of 3-3-2008(3); Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-153. - Surcharges.
   The amount of the industrial waste surcharges will be based upon:
   (1)   The volume of flow used in determining the total discharge of
wastewater for payment of user charges and surcharges, based on the following:
      a.   Metered water consumption as shown in the records of meter readings
maintained by the county or the municipality in which the user is located.
      b.   If required by the county or at the individual dischargers option,
other flow monitoring devices which measure the actual volume of wastewater
discharged to the sewer. Such devices shall be accessible and safely located,
and the measuring system shall be installed in accordance with plans approved
by the county. The metering system shall be installed and maintained at the
user's expense according to arrangements that may be made with the county.
      c.   Where any user procures all or part of his water supply from sources
other than the county, the user shall install and maintain at his own expense a
flow measuring device of a type approved by the county.
   (2)   The character and concentration of the constituents of the wastewater
used in determining surcharges, as determined by samples collected and analyzed
by the county. Samples shall be collected in such a manner as to be
representative of the actual discharge and shall be analyzed using procedures
set forth in 40 CFR 136.
   (3)   The determination of the character and concentration of the
constituents of the wastewater discharge by the director or his duly appointed
representatives shall be binding as a basis for charges.
   (4)   The mass loading (as measured in pounds per day) of various
constituents in excess of that typical for domestic wastewater. The domestic
constituent limiting thresholds include, but are not limited to:
 
COD     500 mg/l
BOD 5  220 mg/l
TSS     250 mg/l
TN      40 mg/l
TP      8 mg/l
FOG     100 mg/l
 
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 3.3; Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-154. - Pretreatment program administration charges.
   The schedule of charges and fees adopted by the county may include charges
and fees for:
   (1)   Reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the pretreatment
program.
   (2)   Monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures.
   (3)   Reviewing slug control plans, including accidental and/or slug load
discharge procedures and construction plans and specifications.
   (4)   Permitting.
   (5)   Other fees as the county may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements of the pretreatment program.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 3.4; Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Secs. 24-155—24-170. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE
   Sec.
24-171. - Wastewater dischargers.
   Sec.
24-172. - Wastewater permits.
   Secs. 24-173—24-190. - Reserved.
Sec. 24-171. - Wastewater dischargers.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect to or discharge to the POTW
without first obtaining the permission of the county, including where the
discharge point is proposed to be connected to a portion of a collection system
owned by other municipalities where those collection systems discharge to
collection systems owned by the county. When requested by the director, a user
must submit information on the nature and characteristics of its wastewater
within 30 days of the request. The director is authorized to prepare a form for
this purpose and may periodically require users to update this information.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 4.1; Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-172. - Wastewater permits.
   (a)   Required. All significant industrial users shall obtain a significant
industrial user permit from the county prior to the commencement of discharge
to the POTW, even when the significant industrial user is located within a
municipality. Existing industrial users who are determined by the director to
be significant industrial users shall obtain a significant industrial user
permit within 180 days of receiving notification of the director's
determination. Industrial users who do not fit the significant industrial user
criteria may at the discretion of the director be required to obtain a
wastewater discharge permit for nonsignificant industrial users. Industrial
users which are retail customers of the county may be required to obtain prior
permits and/or approvals from the county.
   (b)   Significant industrial user determination. All persons proposing to
discharge nondomestic wastewater, or proposing to change the volume or
characteristics of an existing discharge of nondomestic wastewater shall
request from the director a significant industrial user determination. If the
director determines or suspects that the proposed discharge fits the
significant industrial user criteria he will require that a significant
industrial user permit application be filed.
   (c)   Significant industrial user permit application. Users required to
obtain a significant industrial user permit shall complete and file with the
county, an application in the form prescribed by the director, and accompanied
by an application fee in the amount prescribed in the schedule of charges and
fees. Significant industrial users shall apply for a significant industrial
user permit within 90 days after notification of the director's determination
in subsection (b) of this section. The application shall include at a minimum
the information required by 15A NCAC 02H 0.0916 (c) (1) (A-M). In support of
the application, the user shall submit any other information deemed necessary
by the POTW Director to evaluate the permit application. This may include
reporting requirements under 40 CFR 403.12 (b) and Section 24-191 of this
ordinance:
   (1)   Name, address, and location, (if different from the address).
   (2)   Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) codes for pretreatment, the
industry as a whole, and any processes for which categorical pretreatment
standards have been promulgated.
   (3)   Analytical data on wastewater constituents and characteristics
including, but not limited to, those mentioned in division 2 of this article,
any of the priority pollutants (section 307(a) of the Act) which the applicant
knows or suspects are present in the discharge as determined by a reliable
analytical laboratory, and any other pollutant of concern to the POTW; sampling
and analysis shall be performed in accordance with procedures established by
the EPA pursuant to section 304(g) of the Act and contained in 40 CFR, Part
136, as amended and as required in Division 5 Section
24-191 and Sections
24-200 and
24-201.
   (4)   Time and duration of the indirect discharge.
   (5)   Average daily and 30-minute peak wastewater flow rates, including
daily, monthly and seasonal variations if any.
   (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details to
show all sewers, floor drains, sewer connections, direction of flow and
appurtenances by the size, location and elevation.
   (7)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be accidentally or
intentionally discharged.
   (8)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by any municipal, state, or federal pretreatment
standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional operation
and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional pretreatment is required for the user
to meet applicable pretreatment standards.
   (9)   If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be required to meet the
pretreatment standards; the shortest schedule by which the user will provide
such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall not be
longer than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment
standard. The following conditions apply to this schedule:
      (i)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards. No increment in the schedule shall exceed
nine (9) months.
      (ii)   No later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the
final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
director including, at a minimum, whether or not it complied with the increment
of progress, the reason for any delay, and if appropriate, the steps being
taken by the user to return to the established schedule. In no event shall more
than nine (9) months elapse between such progress reports to the director.
   (10)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and rate
of production.
   (11)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per
day).
   (12)   Number and type of employees, and hours of operation of plant and
proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system.
   (13)   If subject to a categorical standard, a baseline monitoring report in
accordance with 40 CFR 403.12(b) and 15A NCAC 2H .0908(a), as outlined in
section
24-191.
   (14)   Any other information as may be deemed by the director to be
necessary to evaluate the permit application.
   (d)   Application Signatories and Certification. All wastewater discharge
permit applications and user reports must be signed by an authorized
representative of the user on file with the Control Authority and/or
Municipality as defined in Section
24-102 (Authorized Representative of the Industrial User) and contain the
following certification statement:
   "I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations."
   (e)   Application review and evaluation. 
   (1)   The director will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may
require additional information.
   (2)   The director is authorized to accept and review applications for the
county.
   (3)   Within 30 days of receipt, the director shall acknowledge and accept
the complete application; or if not complete, shall return the application to
the applicant with a statement of what additional information is required.
   (f)   Tentative determination and draft permit. 
   (1)   The director shall conduct a review of the application and an on-site
inspection of the significant industrial user, including any pretreatment
facilities, and shall prepare a written evaluation and tentative determination
to issue or deny the significant industrial user permit.
   (2)   If the director's tentative determination in subsection (f)(1) of this
section is to issue the permit, the following additional determinations shall
be made in writing:
      i.   Proposed discharge limitations for those pollutants proposed to be
limited;
      ii.   A proposed schedule of compliance, including interim dates and
requirements, for meeting the proposed limitations; and
      iii.   A brief description of any other proposed special conditions which
will have significant impact upon the discharge described in the application.
   (3)   The director shall organize the determinations made pursuant to
Paragraphs (1) and (2) above and the general permit conditions of the county
into a significant industrial user permit.
   (g)   Permit supporting documentation. The Control Authority staff shall
prepare the following documents for all Significant Industrial User permits.
   (1)   An allocation table (AT) listing permit information for all
Significant Industrial Users, including but not limited to permit limits,
permit effective and expiration dates, and a comparison of total permitted
flows and loads with the Division approved maximum allowable loadings of the
POTW, including flow, on forms or in a format approved by the Division. The AT
shall be updated as permits are issued or renewed, and as permits are modified
where the permitted limits or other AT information is revised.
   (2)   The basis, or rationale, for the pretreatment limitations, including
the following:
      a.   Documentation of categorical determination, including documentation
of any calculations used in applying categorical pretreatment standards; and
      b.   Documentation of the rationale of any parameters for which
monitoring has been waived under 40 CFR Part 403.12 (e) (2).
   (h)   Final action on significant industrial user permit applications. 
   (1)   The director shall take final action on all applications not later
than 90 days following receipt of a complete application.
   (2)   The director is authorized to:
      a.   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing such
conditions as are necessary to effectuate the purposes of this article and G.S.
143-215.1.
      b.   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing time schedules
for achieving compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements.
      c.   Modify any permit upon not less than 60 days' notice and pursuant to
subsection (j) of this section.
      d.   Revoke any permit pursuant to section
24-241.
      e.   Suspend a permit pursuant to section
24-241.
      f.   Deny a permit application when in the opinion of the director such
discharge may cause or contribute to pass through or interference of the
wastewater treatment plant or where necessary to effectuate the purposes of
G.S. 143-215.1.
   (i)   Permit Modification 
   (1)   Modifications of permits shall be subject to the same procedural
requirements as the issuance of permits except as follows: Any changes or new
conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for
compliance.
      a.   Changes in the ownership of the discharge when no other change in
the permit is indicated,
      b.   Single modification of any compliance schedule not in excess of four
months,
      c.   Modification of compliance schedules (construction schedules) in
permits for new sources where the new source will not begin to discharge until
control facilities are operational.
   (2)   Within nine months of the promulgation of a National Categorical
Pretreatment Standard, the wastewater discharge permit of users subject to such
standards shall be revised to require compliance with such standard within the
time frame prescribed by such standard. Where a user, subject to a National
Categorical Pretreatment Standard, has not previously submitted an application
for a wastewater discharge permit as required by subsection (c) of this
section, the user shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit within 180 days
after the promulgation of the applicable National Categorical Pretreatment
Standard.
   (3)   A request for a modification by the permittee shall constitute a
waiver of the 60-day notice required by G.S. 143-215.1(b) for modifications.
   (j)   Permit Conditions. 
   (1)   The director shall have the authority to grant a permit with such
conditions attached as he believes necessary to achieve the purpose of this
ordinance and N.C.G.S. 143-215.1. Wastewater permits shall contain, but are not
limited to, the following:
      a.   A statement of duration (in no case more than five years);
      b.   A statement of non-transferability;
      c.   Applicable effluent limits based on categorical standards or local
limits or both;
      d.   Applicable monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and record
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency, and sample
type based on federal, state and local law;
      e.   Requirements for notifying the POTW in the event of an accidental
discharge or slug load as defined in Section
24-102 (slug load or discharge):slug loads; and,
      f.   Requirements to implement a Plan or other controls for prevention of
accidental discharges and/or slug loads as defined in Section
24-102 (slug load or discharge), if determined by the Director to be necessary
for the User and,
      g.   Requirements for immediately notifying the POTW of any changes at
its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental
discharges, or slug load as defined in Section
24-102 (slug load or discharge). Also see Sections
24-195 and
24-196;
      h.   A statement of applicable civil and/or criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and any applicable compliance schedule.
   (2)   In addition, permits may contain, but are not limited to, the
following:
      a.   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, and/or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization.
      b.   Limits on the instantaneous, daily and monthly average and/or
maximum concentration, mass, or other measure of identified wastewater
pollutants or properties.
      c.   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology or
construction of appropriate containment devices, etc., designed to reduce,
eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the treatment works.
      d.   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to reduce
the amount of pollutants discharged to the municipal wastewater system.
      e.   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the system.
      f.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment.
      g.   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling, number, types, and standards for tests, and
reporting schedules.
      h.   Requirements for immediate reporting of any instance of
noncompliance and for automatic resampling and reporting within thirty (30)
days where self-monitoring indicates a violation(s).
      i.   Compliance schedules for meeting pretreatment standards and
requirements.
      j.   Requirements for submission of periodic self-monitoring or special
notification reports.
      k.   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plans and records
relating to wastewater discharges as specified in section 5.13 and affording
the director, or his representatives, access thereto.
      l.   Requirements for prior notification and approval by the director of
any new introduction of wastewater pollutants or of any significant change in
the volume or character of the wastewater prior to introduction in the system.
      m.   Requirements for the prior notification and approval by the director
of any change in the manufacturing and/or pretreatment process used by the
permittee.
      n.   A statement that compliance with the permit does not relieve the
permittee of responsibility for compliance with all applicable federal and
state pretreatment standards, including those which become effective during the
terms of the permit.
      o.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the director to ensure
compliance with this ordinance, and state and federal laws, rules, and
regulations.
   (k)   Permit duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed five years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year
or may be stated to expire on a specific date.
   (l)   Permit transfer. Wastewater permits are issued to a specific user for
a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or
transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises, or a new or
changed operation.
   (m)   Permit reissuance. A significant industrial user shall apply for
permit reissuance by submitting a complete permit application in accordance
with this section a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the existing
permit.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 4.2; Amend. of 3-3-2008(3); Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Secs. 24-173—24-190. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
   Sec.
24-191. - Baseline monitoring reports.
   Sec.
24-192. - Compliance schedule progress reports.
   Sec.
24-193. - Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard
deadline.
   Sec.
24-194. - Periodic compliance reports.
   Sec.
24-195. - Reports of changed conditions.
   Sec.
24-196. - Reports of potential problems.
   Sec.
24-197. - Reports from unpermitted users.
   Sec.
24-198. - Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting.
   Sec.
24-199. - Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste.
   Sec.
24-200. - Analytical requirements.
   Sec.
24-201. - Grab and composite sample collection.
   Sec.
24-202. - Timing.
   Sec.
24-203. - Recordkeeping.
   Sec.
24-204. - Electronic Reporting.
   Secs. 24-205—24-220. - Reserved.
Sec. 24-191. - Baseline monitoring reports.
   (a)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 CFR 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the
POTW shall submit to the director a report which contains the information
listed in subsection (b) of this section. At least 90 days prior to
commencement of their discharge, new sources, and sources that become
categorical users subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable categorical
standard, shall submit to the director a report which contains the information
listed in subsection (b) of this section. A new source shall report the method
of pretreatment it intends to use to meet applicable categorical standards. A
new source also shall give estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of
pollutants to be discharged.
   (b)   Users described in subsection (a) of this section shall submit the
information set forth as follows:
   (1)   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner.
   (2)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility.
   (3)   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature, average
rate of production, and standard industrial classifications of the operations
carried out by such user. This description should include a schematic process
diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from the regulated
processes.
   (4)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily and
maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula set out in 40 CFR 403.6(e).
   (5)   Measurement of Pollutants.
      a.   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each regulated
process.
      b.   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the director,
of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process.
Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average concentrations, or mass,
where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of daily
operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in
section
24-200 of this ordinance.
      c.   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out in
section 24-201 of this ordinance and 40 CFR 403.12(b) and (g), including 40 CFR
403.12(g)(4).
   (6)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user's current authorized
representative as defined in section
24-102 (authorized representative of the industrial user) and certified by a
qualified professional, indicating whether pretreatment standards are being met
on a consistent basis, and, if not, whether additional operation and
maintenance (O&M) and/or additional pretreatment is required to meet the
pretreatment standards and requirements.
   (7)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion date
in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for
the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to this
section must meet the requirements set out in section
24-192.
   (8)   Signature and certification. All baseline monitoring reports must be
signed and certified in accordance with section
24-172(d).
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 5.1; Amend. of 3-3-2008(3); Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-192. - Compliance schedule progress reports.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
section
24-191(b)(7):
   (1)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
   (2)   No increment referred to in subsection (1) of this section shall
exceed nine months;
   (3)   The user shall submit a progress report to the director no later than
14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of compliance
including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the increment of
progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps being taken
by the user to return to the established schedule; and
   (4)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress
reports to the director.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 5.2; Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-193. - Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard
deadline.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the director a
report containing the information described in section
24-191(b)(4)—(6). For users subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits
established in accordance with the procedures in 40 CFR 403.6(c), this report
shall contain a reasonable measure of the user's longterm production rate. For
all other users subject to categorical pretreatment standards expressed in
terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of production (or other measure
of operation), this report shall include the user's actual production during
the appropriate sampling period. All compliance reports must be signed and
certified in accordance with section
24-172(d).
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 5.3; Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-194. - Periodic compliance reports.
   The county may sample and analyze user discharges in lieu of requiring the
users to conduct sampling and analysis as follows:
   (a)   All significant industrial users shall, at a frequency determined by
the director but in no case less than once every six months, submit a report
indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in the discharge which
are limited by pretreatment standards and the measured or estimated average and
maximum daily flows for the reporting period. Sampling and analysis must be
performed in accordance with procedures set out in section
24-200 and
24-201. All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in
accordance with section
24-172(d) of this ordinance.
   (b)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user's discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (c)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the director, using the
procedures prescribed in section
24-200, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 5.4; Amend. of 3-3-2008(3); Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-195. - Reports of changed conditions.
   (a)   Each user must notify the director of any planned significant changes
to the user's operations or system which might alter the nature, quality, or
volume of its wastewater at least [thirty (30)] days before the change. The
permittee shall not begin the changes until receiving written approval from the
Control Authority. See Section
24-196(d) for other reporting requirements.
   (b)   The director may require the user to submit such information as may be
deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the submission of
a wastewater discharge permit application under section
24-172.
   (c)   The director may issue a wastewater discharge permit under section
24-172 or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under section
24-172 in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
   (d)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but are
not limited to, flow or pollutant increases of twenty percent (20 %) or
greater, and the discharge of any previously unreported pollutants.
      i.   Increases or decreases to production; increases in the discharge of
previously reported pollutants; discharge of pollutants not previously reported
to the Control Authority and/or Municipality; new or changed product lines; new
or changed manufacturing processes and/or chemicals; or new or changed
customers.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 5.5; Amend. of 3-3-2008(3); Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-196. - Reports of potential problems.
   (a)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-
customary batch discharge, or a slug load as defined in Section
24-102 (slug load or discharge), that may cause potential problems for the
POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and notify the director of the
incident. This notification shall include the location of the discharge, type
of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken by
the user.
   (b)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the director, submit a detailed written report describing the cause
of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent similar
future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties,
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this article.
   (c)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a
discharge described in subsection (a) of this section. Employers shall ensure
that all employees who may cause such a discharge to occur are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
   (d)   All SIUs are required to notify the POTW immediately of any changes at
its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental discharge,
discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-customary batch discharge,
or a slug load as defined in Section
24-102 (slug load or discharge).
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 5.6; Amend. of 3-3-2008(3); Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-197. - Reports from unpermitted users.
   All users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall provide
appropriate reports to the director as the director may require.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 5.7; Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-198. - Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting.
   (a)   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must
notify the director within twenty-four (24) hours of becoming aware of the
violation. The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the
results of the repeat analysis to the director within thirty (30) days after
becoming aware of the violation. If allowed by the director, the user is not
required to resample.
   (1)   If the director monitors at the user's facility at least once a month,
or
   (2)   If the director samples between the user's initial sampling and when
the user receives the results of this sampling.
   (b)   If the director has performed the sampling and analysis in lieu of the
industrial user and the POTW's sampling of the user indicates a violation, the
director shall repeat the sampling and obtain the results of the repeat
analysis within 30 days after becoming aware of the violations, unless one of
the following occurs:
   (1)   The director monitors at the user's facility at least once a month; or
   (2)   The director samples the user between their initial sampling and when
the POTW receives the results of this initial sampling; or
   (3)   The director requires the user to perform and submit the results to
the director within the 30 day deadline of the POTW becoming aware of the
violation.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 5.8; Amend. of 3-3-2008(3); Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-199. - Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste.
   (a)   The county prohibits the discharge of any hazardous wastes without
notification to and approval by the director.
   (b)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall notify
the POTW, the EPA regional waste management division director, and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
CFR 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste as set
forth in 40 CFR 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the type of discharge
(continuous, batch, or other). If the user discharges more than 100 kilograms
of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the notification also shall
contain the following information to the extent such information is known and
readily available to the user:
   (1)   An identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the
wastes;
   (2)   An estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents in
the wastestream discharge during the calendar month; and
   (3)   An estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents in
the wastestream expected to be discharged during the following 12 months.
   All notifications must take place no later than 180 days before the
discharge commences. The user shall not begin the discharge until receiving
written approval from Johnston County. Any notification under this subsection
need be submitted only once for each hazardous waste discharge. However,
notifications of changed conditions must be submitted under section
24-195. The notification requirement in this section does not apply to
pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards under the self-monitoring requirements of sections
24-191,
24-193 and
24-194.
   (c)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of subsection (b) of this
section, during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15
kilograms of hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as
specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15
kilograms of nonacute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity
of acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e),
requires a one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the user
discharges more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require
additional notification.
   (d)   In the case of any new regulation under section 3001 of RCRA
identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any
additional substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the director,
the EPA regional waste management waste division director, and state hazardous
waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90 days of the
effective date of such regulations.
   (e)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
   (f)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by this article, a permit issued under
this article, or any applicable federal or state law.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 5.9; Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-200. - Analytical requirements.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as
part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed
by a laboratory certified by the State to perform the wastewater analysis in
accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 CFR 136, unless otherwise
specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard or unless
performed in accordance with procedures approved by EPA or Johnston County. If
40 CFR 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the pollutant
in question, sampling and analyses must be performed in accordance with
procedures approved by EPA and Johnston County.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 5.10; Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-201. - Grab and composite sample collection.
   (a)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user's discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (b)   Grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and
grease, sulfide, volatile organic compounds, and any other pollutants as
required by 40 CFR 136. The POTW shall determine the number of grabs necessary
to be representative of the user's discharge. See 40 CFR 403.12(g)(5) for
additional grab sample number requirements for BMR and 90 day Compliance
Reports. Additionally, the Director may allow collection of multiple grabs
during a 24 hour period which are composited prior to analysis as allowed under
40 CFR 136.
   (c)   Composite Samples: All wastewater composite samples shall be collected
with a minimum of hourly aliquots or grabs for each hour that there is
discharge. All wastewater composite samples shall be collected using flow
proportional composite collection techniques, unless time-proportional
composites or grab sampling is authorized by the director. When authorizing
time-proportional composites or grabs, the samples must be representative and
the decision to allow the alternative sampling must be documented.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 5.11; Amend. 3-3-2008(3); Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-202. - Timing.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 5.12; Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-203. - Recordkeeping.
   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this division shall retain,
and make available for inspection and copying, all records of information
obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this division and
any additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring
activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements. Records
shall include the date, exact place, method, and time of sampling, and the name
of the person taking the samples; the dates analyses were performed; who
performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or methods used; and the
results of such analyses. These records shall remain available for a period of
at least three years. This period shall be automatically extended for the
duration of any litigation concerning the user or the county, or where the user
has been specifically notified of a longer retention period by the director.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 5.13; Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-204. - Electronic Reporting.
   The director may develop procedures for receipt of electronic reports for
any reporting requirements of this article. Such procedures shall comply with
40 CFR Part 3. These procedures shall be enforceable under Division 7 of this
article.
(Amend. 3-3-2008(3); Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Secs. 24-205—24-220. - Reserved.
DIVISION 6. - COMPLIANCE MONITORING
   Sec.
24-221. - Monitoring facilities.
   Sec.
24-222. - Inspection and sampling.
   Sec.
24-223. - Search warrants.
   Sec.
24-224. - Confidential information.
   Secs. 24-225—24-240. - Reserved.
Sec. 24-221. - Monitoring facilities.
   (a)   The county requires the user to provide and operate at the user's own
expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling, and flow
measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems. The
monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user's premises, but the
county may, when such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship
on the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public street or
sidewalk area and located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or
parked vehicles.
   (b)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility
to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The
facility, sampling, and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in
a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (c)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the requirements of
the county and all applicable local construction standards and specifications.
Construction shall be completed within 90 days following written notification
by the county.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 6.1; Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-222. - Inspection and sampling.
   (a)   The county will inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain
whether the purpose of this article is being met and all requirements are being
complied with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the county, the approval authority and EPA or their
representative ready access at all reasonable times to all parts of the
premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and
copying or in the performance of any of their duties. The county, approval
authority and EPA shall have the right to set up on the user's property such
devices as are necessary to conduct sampling, inspection, compliance monitoring
and/or metering operations.
   (b)   Where a user has security measures in force which would require proper
identification and clearance before entry into their premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with their security guards so that upon
presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the county, the state
and EPA will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of
performing their specific responsibilities. Denial of Johnston County’s,
State’s, or EPA's access to the user's premises shall be a violation of this
article. Unreasonable delays may constitute denial of access.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 6.2; Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-223. - Search warrants.
   If Johnston County, State, or EPA has been refused access to a building,
structure or property, or any part of a building, structure or property, and is
able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of
this article, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a
routine inspection and sampling program of the county designed to verify
compliance with this article or any permit or order issued under this article,
or to protect the overall public health, safety and welfare of the community,
then Johnston County, approval authority, or EPA may seek issuance of a search
warrant from the General Court of Justice of the county.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 6.3; Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-224. - Confidential information.
   (a)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections shall
be available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction
unless the user specifically requests in writing and is able to demonstrate to
the satisfaction of the director that the release of such information would
divulge information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection
as trade secrets of the user. Any such request must be asserted at the time of
submission of the information or data. It shall be the duty of the user to
ensure that the requirements for designation of materials as confidential trade
secrets, as provided in the North Carolina Public Records Act, are met if the
user wishes to protect such information as confidential.
   (b)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public, but shall be made available upon
written request to governmental agencies for uses related to this article, the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Permit, nondischarge
permit and/or the pretreatment programs; however, such portions of a report
shall be available for use by the state or any state agency in judicial review
or enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report.
Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be recognized as
confidential information.
   (c)   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall
be made available to officials of the approval authority and EPA upon request.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 7; Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Secs. 24-225—24-240. - Reserved.
DIVISION 7. - ENFORCEMENT
   Sec.
24-241. - Administrative remedies.
   Sec.
24-242. - Civil penalties.
   Sec.
24-243. - Other available remedies.
   Sec.
24-244. - Remedies nonexclusive.
   Sec.
24-245. - Annual publication of significant noncompliance.
   Sec.
24-246 .- Adjudicatory hearings.
   Sec.
24-247. - Affirmative defenses to discharge violations.
   Sec.
24-248. - Severability.
   Sec.
24-249. - Conflict.
   Secs. 24-250—24-274. - Reserved.
 
Sec. 24-241. - Administrative remedies.
   (a)   Notification of violation. Whenever the director finds that any
industrial user has violated or is violating this article, wastewater permit,
or any prohibition, limitation or requirements contained in such permit or any
other pretreatment requirement, the director may serve upon such a person a
written notice stating the nature of the violation. Within 30 days from the
date of this notice, an explanation for the violation and a plan for its
satisfactory correction shall be submitted to the county by the user.
Submission of this plan does not relieve the discharger of liability for any
violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
   (b)   Consent orders. The director is empowered to enter into consent
orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with the person responsible for the noncompliance.
Such orders will include specific action to be taken by the discharger to
correct the noncompliance within a time period also specified by the order.
Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as an administrative order
issued pursuant to subsection (d) of this section.
   (c)   Show Cause Hearing. The director may order any industrial user who
causes or is responsible for an unauthorized discharge, has violated this
ordinance or is in noncompliance with a wastewater discharge permit to show
cause why a proposed enforcement action should not be taken. In the event the
director determines that a show cause order should be issued, a notice shall be
served on the user specifying the time and place for the hearing, the proposed
enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a request that the user
show cause why this proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice
of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail
(return receipt requested) at least ten (10) days before the hearing. Service
may be made on any agent or officer of a corporation. The director shall review
the evidence presented at the hearing and determine whether the proposed
enforcement action is appropriate. A show cause hearing under this section is
not a prerequisite to the assessment of a civil penalty under section
24-242 nor is any action or inaction taken by the director/ superintendent
under this section subject to an administrative appeal under Section
24-172(i).
   (d)   Administrative orders. When the director finds that an industrial user
has violated or continues to violate this article, permits or orders issued
under this article, or any other pretreatment requirement, the director may
issue an order to cease and desist all such violations and direct those persons
in noncompliance to do any one or more of the following:
   (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements.
   (2)   Comply in accordance with a compliance time schedule set forth in the
order.
   (3)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action in the event of a
continuing or threatened violation.
   (4)   Disconnect unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or other
related appurtenances are installed and properly operated within a specified
time period.
   (e)   Emergency suspensions. 
   (1)   The director may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or
wastewater permit when such suspension is necessary in order to stop an actual
or threatened discharge which presents or may present an imminent or
substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or the
environment, interferes with the POTW or causes the POTW to violate any
condition of its NPDES or nondischarge permit.
   (2)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment service
and/or the wastewater permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the
contribution. A hearing will be held within 15 days of the notice of suspension
to determine whether the suspension may be lifted or the user's waste discharge
permit terminated. In the event of a failure to comply voluntarily with the
suspension order, the director shall take such steps as deemed necessary
including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize
damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any individuals. The director
shall reinstate the wastewater permit and the wastewater treatment service upon
proof of the elimination of the noncompliant discharge. The industrial user
shall submit a detailed written statement describing the causes of the harmful
contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence to the
director prior to the date of the hearing.
   (f)   Termination Of Permit or Permission to Discharge. Any user who
violates the following conditions of this article, or applicable state and
federal regulations, is subject to having its permit terminated The director
may revoke a wastewater discharge permit or permission to discharge for good
cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
   (1)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his discharge;
   (2)   Failure to report significant changes in operations, or wastewater
constituents and characteristics;
   (3)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose of
inspection or monitoring; or,
   (4)   Violation of conditions of the permit or permission to discharge,
conditions of this ordinance, or any applicable state and federal regulations.
   Noncompliant industrial users will be notified of the proposed termination
of their wastewater permit and will be offered an opportunity to show cause
under section 8.1 of this ordinance why the proposed action should not be
taken.
   Noncompliant industrial users will be notified of the proposed termination
of their wastewater permit and will be offered an opportunity to show cause
under this section why the proposed action should not be taken.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 8.1; Amend. of 3-3-2008(3); Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-242. - Civil penalties.
   (a)   Any user who is found to have failed to comply with any provision of
this article, or the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued under this
article, may be assessed a civil penalty up to $25,000.00 per day per
violation.
   (1)   For any class of violation, only if a civil penalty has been imposed
against the violator within the five years preceding the violation, or
   (2)   In the case of failure to file, submit, or make available, as the case
may be, any documents, data, or reports required by this ordinance, or the
orders, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder, only if the POTW
director determines that the violation was intentional and a civil penalty has
been imposed against the violator within the five years preceding the
violation.
   (b)   In determining the amount of the civil penalty, the director shall
consider the following:
   (1)   The degree and extent of the harm to the natural resources, to the
public health, or to public or private property resulting from the violation.
   (2)   The duration and gravity of the violation.
   (3)   The effect on groundwater or surface water quantity or quality or on
air quality.
   (4)   The cost of rectifying the damage.
   (5)   The amount of money saved by noncompliance.
   (6)   Whether the violation was committed willfully or intentionally.
   (7)   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to comply
with the pretreatment program.
   (8)   The costs of enforcement to the county.
   (c)   Appeals of civil penalties assessed in accordance with this section
shall be as provided in section
24-172(i).
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 8.2; Amd. of 7-1-02; Amend. of 3-3-2008(3); Ord. of 3-4-
2013)
Sec. 24-243. - Other available remedies.
   Remedies, in addition to those previously mentioned in this article, are
available to the director who may use any single one or combination against a
noncompliant user. Additional available remedies include, but are not limited
to:
   (1)   Criminal violations. The district attorney for the county may, at the
request of the Board of Commissioners, prosecute noncompliant users who violate
the provisions of G.S. 143-215.6B. Note: Under state law, it is a crime to
negligently violate any term, condition, or requirement of a pretreatment
permit, or negligently fail to apply for a pretreatment permit, issued by local
governments (G.S. 143-215.6B(f)), to knowingly and willfully violate any term,
condition, or requirement of a pretreatment permit, or knowingly and willfully
fail to apply for a pretreatment permit, issued by local governments (G.S. 143-
215.6B(g)), to knowingly violate any term, condition, or requirement of a
pretreatment permit issued by local governments, or knowingly fail to apply for
a pretreatment permit, knowing at the time that a person is placed in imminent
danger of death or serious bodily injury, (G.S. 143-215.6B(h)), and to falsify
information required under G.S. 143-215.6B(i)).
   (2)   Injunctive relief. Whenever a user is in violation of the provisions
of this article or an order or permit issued under this article, the director,
through the county attorney, may petition the Superior Court for the issuance
of a restraining order or a preliminary and permanent injunction which
restrains or compels the activities in question.
   (3)   Water supply and/or sewer severance. Whenever an industrial user is in
violation of the provisions of this article or an order or permit issued under
this article, water service and/or sewer service to the industrial user may be
severed and service will only recommence, at the user's expense, after it has
satisfactorily demonstrated ability to comply. Municipalities having
jurisdiction for water and sewer service shall cooperate with the county in
accomplishing severance of service.
   (4)   Public nuisances. Any violation of the prohibitions or effluent
limitations of this article or of a permit or order issued under this article,
is declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed by
the director. Any person creating a public nuisance shall be subject to the
provisions of the appropriate ordinances of the county governing such
nuisances, including reimbursing the POTW for any costs incurred in removing,
abating or remedying the nuisance.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 8.3; Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-244. - Remedies nonexclusive.
   The remedies provided for in this division are not exclusive. The director
may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a noncompliant
user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in accordance
with the county enforcement response plan. However, the director may take other
action against any user when the circumstances warrant. Further, the director
is empowered to take more than one enforcement action against any noncompliant
user.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 8.4; Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-245. - Annual publication of significant noncompliance.
   At least annually, the director shall publish in a newspaper of general
circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdiction(s)
served by the POTW, a list of those industrial users which were found to be in
significant noncompliance, also referred to as reportable noncompliance in 15A
NCAC 2H.0903(b)(10), with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements,
during the previous 12 months.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 9; Amend. of 3-3-2008(3); Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-246. - Adjudicatory hearings.
Hearings: Johnston County may conduct hearings in accordance with its regular
hearing procedure.
   (a)   Initial Adjudicatory Hearing. An applicant whose permit is denied, or
is granted subject to conditions he deems unacceptable, a permittee/user
assessed a civil penalty under section 24-242 or one issued an administrative
order under section 24-241 shall have the right to an adjudicatory hearing
before the POTW Director or other hearing officer appointed by the POTW
Director upon making written demand, identifying the specific issues to be
contested, to the Director within 30 days following receipt of the significant
industrial user permit, civil penalty assessment, or administrative order.
Unless such written demand is made within the time specified herein, the action
shall be final and binding and further appeal is barred. For modified permits,
only those parts of the permit being modified may be adjudicated. The hearing
officer shall make a final decision on the contested permit, penalty, or order
within 45 days of the receipt of the written demand for a hearing. The Director
shall transmit a copy of the hearing officer's decision by registered or
certified mail as described in paragraph (c) below. The terms and conditions of
a permit under appeal shall be as follows:
   (1)   New Permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the General
Courts of Justice, of the terms or conditions of a newly issued permit, the
terms and conditions of the entire permit are stayed and the permit is not in
effect until either the conclusion of judicial review or until the parties
reach a mutual resolution.
   (2)   Renewed Permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the General
Courts of Justice, of the terms or conditions of a renewed permit, the terms
and conditions of the existing permit remain in effect until either the
conclusion of judicial review or until the parties reach a mutual resolution.
   (3)   Terminated Permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
General Courts of Justice, of a terminated permit, no permit is in effect until
either the conclusion of judicial review or until the parties reach a mutual
resolution.
   (b)   Final Appeal Hearing. Any decision of a hearing officer made as a
result of an adjudicatory hearing held under paragraph (a) above may be
appealed to the Johnston County Board of Commissioners upon filing a written
demand within 10 days of receipt of notice of the decision. Hearings held under
this Subdivision shall be conducted in accordance with local hearing
procedures. Failure to make written demand within the time specified herein
shall bar further appeal. The Johnston County Board of Commissioners shall make
a final decision on the appeal within 90 days from receipt of the demand filed
under paragraph (c) below. The decision is a final decision for the purposes of
seeking judicial review.
   (c)   Official record. When a final decision is issued under paragraph (b)
above, the Johnston County Board of Commissioners shall prepare an official
record of the case that includes:
   (1)   All notices, motions, and other like pleadings;
   (2)   A copy of all documentary evidence introduced;
   (3)   A certified transcript of all testimony taken, if testimony is
transcribed. If testimony is taken and not transcribed, then a narrative
summary of any testimony taken.
   (4)   A copy of the final decision of the Johnston County Board of
Commissioners.
   (d)   Judicial Review. Any person against whom a final order or decision of
the Johnston County Board of Commissioners is entered, pursuant to the hearing
conducted under paragraph (b) above, may seek judicial review of the order or
decision by filing a written request for review by the Superior Court of
Johnston County within 30 days after receipt of notice by registered or
certified mail of the order or decision, but not thereafter, along with a copy
to Johnston County. Within 30 days after receipt of the copy of the written
request for review by the court, the County Manager shall transmit to the
reviewing court the original or a certified copy of the official record.
(Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-247. - Affirmative defenses to discharge violations.
   (a)   Upset. 
   (1)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of subsection (a)(2) of this section are met.
   (2)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other
relevant evidence that:
      a.   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause of the upset;
      b.   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      c.   The user has submitted the following information to the director
within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset. If this information is provided
orally, a written submission must be provided within five (5) days:
         1.   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
         2.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         3.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (3)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (4)   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
   (5)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
   (b)   Prohibited discharge standards defense. A user shall have an
affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought against it for
noncompliance with the general prohibitions in section
24-121(a) or the specific prohibitions in section
24-121(b)(2), (3), (5)—(7) and (9)—(23) if it can prove that it did not know,
or have reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in conjunction with
discharges from other sources, would cause pass through or interference and
that either:
   (1)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was in
compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through or
interference; or
   (2)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the user's prior discharge when the county was
regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of interference,
was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal requirements.
Pursuant to 40 CFR 403.5(a)(2), the affirmative defense outlined in this
subsection cannot apply to the specific prohibitions in section
24-121(b)(1), (4) and (8).
   (c)   Bypass. 
   (1)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause pretreatment
standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is for essential
maintenance to ensure efficient operation. These bypasses are not subject to
the provisions of subsections (c)(2) and (3) of this section.
   (2)a.   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall submit
prior notice to the director, at least ten days before the date of the bypass,
if possible.
      b.   A user shall submit oral notice to the director of an unanticipated
bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24 hours from the
time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall also be
provided within five days of the time the user becomes aware of the bypass. The
written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and its cause; the
duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if the bypass has
not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue; and steps
taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent reoccurrence of the bypass.
The director may waive the written report on a case-by-case basis if the oral
report has been received within 24 hours.
   (3)a.   Bypass is prohibited, and the director may take an enforcement
action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         1.   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury,
or severe property damage;
         2.   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         3.   The user submitted notices as required under subsection (c)(2) of
this section.
      b.   The director may approve an anticipated bypass, after considering
its adverse effects, if the director determines that it will meet the three
conditions listed in subsection (c)(3)a. of this section.
(Ord. of 10-1-1996, § 10; Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Sec. 24-248. - Severability.
   If any provision, paragraph, word, section or article of this ordinance is
invalidated by any court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions,
paragraphs, words, sections, and chapters shall not be affected and shall
continue in full force and effect.
(Amend. of 3-3-2008(3); Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Secs. 24-249. - Conflict.
   All other ordinances and parts of other ordinances inconsistent or
conflicting with any part of this ordinance are hereby repealed to the extent
of such inconsistency or conflict.
(Amend. of 3-3-2008(3); Ord. of 3-4-2013)
Secs. 24-250—24-274. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - RECLAIMED WATER
   Sec.
24-275. - Purpose and intent.
   Sec.
24-276. - Sale of reclaimed water from special facilities.
   Sec.
24-277. - Reclaimed water system part of county water system and other
definitions.
   Sec.
24-278. - General.
   Sec.
24-279. - Rules for use of reclaimed water.
   Sec.
24-280. - Penalties for misuse of reclaimed water.
   Sec.
24-281. - Connection to reclaimed water system.
   Sec.
27-282. - Reclaimed water service application requirements.
   Sec.
24-283. - Installation of lines and easement dedications.
   Sec.
24-284. - Permits.
   Sec.
24-285. - Authority to adopt rules and regulations.
   Sec.
24-286. - Authority to adopt rates, fees, and charges.
   Sec.
24-287. - Priorities for extending reclaimed water service.
   Sec.
24-288. - Conditions of reclaimed water service use.
   Sec.
24-289. - Service interruption.
   Sec.
24-290. - Maintenance by customer.
   Sec.
24-291. - Conservation of water resources.
   Sec.
24-292. - Right to refuse service.
   Sec.
24-293. - Ownership by county.
   Sec.
24-294. - Conflict.
Sec. 24-275. - Purpose and intent.
   It is the county's purpose and intent to establish a reclaimed water system
and to extend such system to certain areas of the county where the county
commissioners determine that the extension of such a system is practical and
economical. The reclaimed water distribution system will be constructed in
sections and phases to provide reclaimed water service to designated areas as
determined by the county commissioners and pursuant to the terms and conditions
set forth herein.
(Ord. of 7-7-2003)
Sec. 24-276. - Sale of reclaimed water from special facilities.
   Reclaimed water may be purchased from the county at designated facilities
including special hydrants under the following conditions:
   (1)   The charge for such reclaimed water shall be at the rate established
in the annual operating budget ordinance.
   (2)   When water is obtained through a reclaimed water hydrant, a meter must
be provided to register the amount of water being purchased. Only county
employees shall attach or detach the hydrant meter.
   (3)   The charge for the use of a hydrant meter and accessory equipment
shall be as established in the annual operating budget ordinance.
   (4)   The utilities department shall establish rules for the use of hydrant
meters and accessory equipment, hours of operation, etc., as may be necessary.
(Ord. of 7-7-2003, § I)
Sec. 24-277. - Reclaimed water system part of county water system and other
definitions.
   The reclaimed water system is a part of the Johnston County Water and Sewer
System. To this end, the terms water system, water pipe, county water, water
service, distribution system, meters, mains and other references to the
reclaimed water system shall be deemed to include and mean such portions of the
reclaimed water system.
   For the purpose of this article, the definitions contained in this section
shall apply unless otherwise specifically stated.
   Available means that a reclaimed water distribution main is, or will be,
located at a property line or within a public right-of-way or easement
contiguous with a property line on which an irrigation system is installed or
proposed to be serviced with reclaimed water.
   Board of commissioners means the duly elected governing board of Johnston
County.
   Cross-connection means any physical connection or arrangement which would
allow the movement of fluids between the potable water system and any other
fluid system, such as the reclaimed water system.
   Customer means the Johnston County reclaimed water customer and the actual
user of the reclaimed water.
   Department means the Johnston County Department of Utilities.
   Director means the director of infrastructure and engineering of the
department of public utilities of Johnston County or his/her designee.
   Distribution mains means those conduits used to supply reclaimed water to
service lines from transmission mains.
   Irrigation means the act of applying water to the outdoor landscape by any
means, including, but not limited to, the use of watering cans, hoses,
sprinklers attached to hoses, installed underground sprinkler systems, and
agricultural irrigation systems.
   Irrigation system means a device or combination of devices having a hose,
pipe, or other conduit installed in the landscape which transmits county water,
or reclaimed water, through which device or combination of devices county
water, or a mixture of county water and chemicals is drawn and applied to
residential or commercial lawns, landscapes, greenspaces, or agricultural
lands.
   Landscape means the natural or modified ground outside the impervious
surface of the property, or an agricultural field.
   North Carolina Rules means the regulations for reclaimed water and water
reuse as stated in the North Carolina Administrative Code section 15A NCAC
02U.0200 as amended from time to time.
   Potable water means potable water treated or produced by the Johnston County
water system, or any other public water system.
   Reclaimed water means water that has received at least tertiary treatment,
meets water quality requirements defined by the North Carolina Rules (defined
hereafter) and is reused after flowing out of a wastewater treatment facility.
   Reclaimed water system means all equipment, pumps, piping, valves, tanks,
and associated hardware and other appurtenances, including meters, from the
customer's reclaimed water meter back to, and including the reclaimed water
production and pumping facility.
   Service line means that conduit for reclaimed water from the distribution
main to the property line.
   Transmission mains means those conduits used to supply reclaimed water from
the pumping station or treatment plant to the distribution mains.
(Ord. of 7-7-2003, § II; Ord. of 8-6-2012)
Sec. 24-278. - General.
   Once reclaimed water is available to property, the property owner may
connect to the reclaimed water system upon submission of a fully executed
application as required by the director, and upon compliance with all other
county requirements. Reclaimed water may be used for irrigation purposes and
for other nonpotable water purposes in accordance with federal, state and local
ordinances, rules and regulations. If reclaimed water is to be used for any
purpose other than land application, the customer shall obtain prior approval
of such use from the director.
   As an incentive to development of an initial demonstration phase of this
project, customers that have signed letters of intent for the initial phase of
the reclaimed water project may have conditions in their agreements with the
county that are different from the conditions in this article.
(Ord. of 7-7-2003, § III)
Sec. 24-279. - Rules for use of reclaimed water.
   Rules and regulations governing the use of reclaimed water are contained in
the North Carolina Administrative Code section 15A NCAC 02U.0200 as amended
from time to time. Other requirements are contained in Permit No. WQ 0019631
issued to the Johnston County Water Reclamation Facility on March 27, 2002.
Additional requirements are contained in county policy relating to reclaimed
water applications, inspections, education, etc.
   All other rules governing the use of reclaimed water require approval of the
Johnston County Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. of 7-7-2003, § IV; Ord. of 8-6-2012)
Sec. 24-280. - Penalties for misuse of reclaimed water.
   (a)   [Citations.] Each day a violation occurs is a separate violation. Any
person violating this section may be cited for each day on which a violation
occurs.
   (b)   [Penalties.] Penalties for violation of this section are as set forth
herein. The county may use any one or combination of penalties and enforcement
mechanisms. Imposition of one or more penalties for any violation shall not
excuse any violation or permit it to continue.
   (1)   Civil penalties. Violation of this section shall subject the violator
to a civil penalty of $100.00 for the first violation, $250.00 for the second
violation, and $500.00 for the third violation. Violators shall be issued a
written citation that must be paid within two weeks of the service date of the
citation. The citation may be served by personal delivery or by certified or
registered mail, return receipt requested. The citation shall describe the
violation and shall specify the amount of the civil penalty levied. The civil
penalty is collectible in a civil action in the nature of the debt. The county
attorney, or designee, is authorized to file suit on behalf of the county to
collect any unpaid citations, and the county manager, the director of
infrastructure and engineering, or their designee is authorized to verify and
sign complaints on behalf of the county. The director of infrastructure and
engineering, his designee, or other authorized county employee may issue a
citation for violations of this section.
   (2)   Criminal penalties. In addition to or in lieu of civil penalties,
violation of this section shall constitute a class 3 misdemeanor, pursuant to
G.S. 14-4 and G.S. 160A175, as amended, punishable for each violation by a fine
of up to $500.00 and/or incarceration for up to 30 days. A police officer may
initiate the criminal process as provided by law.
   (3)   Other. Injunction, order of abatement, and other appropriate legal and
equitable remedies may also enforce this section.
   (c)   Emergency suspension of service. The director may restrict or suspend
reclaimed water service to any person who violates the rules and regulations on
two or more occasions or if a reclaimed water emergency exists. The director or
his/her designee shall make findings of fact to indicate the nature of the
emergency and the actions of that person that exacerbates the emergency. The
director may order that reclaimed water service to that person be suspended for
a specified period of time. Suspension of reclaimed water service shall be
performed in accordance with the county's ordinances, policies, practices, and
procedures. In the event that the director orders that irrigation be suspended
for a specified period of time, the director or his/her designee shall have the
right and privilege to access, on private property if necessary, all necessary
valves, hydrants, or flow restriction devices to isolate the flow of reclaimed
water to the irrigation system.
(Ord. of 7-7-2003, § V)
Sec. 24-281. - Connection to reclaimed water system.
   (a)   Customers with existing irrigation systems. Customers with existing
irrigation systems using potable water who desire to continue to maintain such
systems using county reclaimed water, must apply for reclaimed water in
accordance with the application procedures specified in this article and must
disconnect said systems from the county potable water system and connect to the
reclaimed water system.
   (b)   Customers with new irrigation systems. All new irrigation systems
designed to use county reclaimed water constructed after the effective date of
this article may connect to the reclaimed water system at construction, if
reclaimed water is available to the property. Such connection must be made
prior to, or contemporaneously with connection of other improvements on the
property to the county's potable water system, if available.
(Ord. of 7-7-2003, § VI)
Sec. 27-282. - Reclaimed water service application requirements.
   Applications for reclaimed water service shall be made and will be accepted
in the same manner as applications for water and sewer service, subject to the
provisions of this article. In addition, the Johnston County Department of
Public Utilities has specific procedures and policies in place for servicing,
regulating, billing, and collecting of bills of utility customers. Such
policies, along with all policies and procedures concerning enforcement and
fining and setting standards for the design and installation of utility
pipelines and other appurtenances, apply to the reclaimed water system,
including its design, installation, and maintenance.
(Ord. of 7-7-2003, § VII)
Sec. 24-283. - Installation of lines and easement dedications.
   The county will be responsible for reclaimed water service lines to the
applicant's property line, provided easements or other access is available to
the county. The applicant shall be responsible for all costs and expenses of
installation and maintenance of the reclaimed water line and all appurtenances
from their property line on their property including a service meter. No
reclaimed water lines or other facilities will be installed or accepted by the
county for maintenance unless such lines or facilities are in a dedicated
public right-of-way or dedicated public easement. Any new easement shall be
adequately sized to accommodate construction and maintenance of the reclaimed
water line or system component. No obstruction of any kind shall be planted,
built, or otherwise created within the limits of the easement or right-of-way
without written permission of the director.
(Ord. of 7-7-2003, § VIII)
Sec. 24-284. - Permits.
   All applicants for reclaimed water, at the applicant's own cost and expense,
shall apply for, obtain, and meet all requirements of Johnston County's
policies for design, installation, and operation of reclaimed water systems.
(Ord. of 7-7-2003, § IX)
Sec. 24-285. - Authority to adopt rules and regulations.
   The board of commissioners may by resolution establish reasonable rules and
regulations concerning the reclaimed water system and the use of reclaimed
water. Additional standard policies and procedures may be adopted concerning
the reclaimed water system. Insofar as there is no conflict with the provisions
of this article, county policies and procedures pertaining to potable water
service shall apply.
(Ord. of 7-7-2003, § X)
Sec. 24-286. - Authority to adopt rates, fees, and charges.
   The board of commissioners may, by resolution duly adopted after a public
hearing, establish rates, fees, and charges for the reclaimed water system and
provide terms and conditions for the payment and collection of same. After the
initial establishment of reclaimed water rates, and fee or charge for
connection to the reclaimed water system, these rates, fees and charges will
normally be reviewed and adjusted annually as part of the annual budgeting
cycle.
(Ord. of 7-7-2003, § XI)
Sec. 24-287. - Priorities for extending reclaimed water service.
   The board of commissioners will establish priorities for extension of the
reclaimed water system, as it does for water and sewer system extensions. The
board of commissioners may establish priorities for extension of service
outside the normal utility service boundaries. Provision of reclaimed water
service outside these limits will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
(Ord. of 7-7-2003, § XII)
Sec. 24-288. - Conditions of reclaimed water service use.
   (a)   General. The county may terminate, discontinue, or suspend reclaimed
water service in accordance with county policies and procedures in the event of
(i) a violation of this article or county regulations, policies or procedures,
(ii) failure to pay bills by the due date, (iii) tampering with any utility
service, (iv) the existence of plumbing cross-connections with another water
source, or (v) any customer condition or action that may be detrimental to the
county's potable water system, its reclaimed water system, or its wastewater
collection and treatment system. The county may, at its option, suspend service
until the condition is corrected and all costs due the county are paid. These
costs may include delinquent billings, connection charges, and payment for any
damages caused to the reclaimed water, wastewater collection, or water
distribution systems. The details of the county's procedures for discontinuing
service are found in appropriate county policies.
   (b)   Cross-connection control. There shall be no cross-connections between
the reclaimed water system on a customer's property and the county potable
water system. In all premises where reclaimed water service is provided, the
public or private potable water supply shall be protected by an approved cross-
connection control plan. The plan for cross-connection control must be
submitted with the application for reclaimed water service and must receive the
prior approval of the director. In the event a cross-connection is found, the
cross-connection shall be immediately disconnected, and reclaimed water service
will be suspended. Before reconnection of the reclaimed water service, the
public potable water system shall be protected against the possibility of
future cross connections to the director's satisfaction. Additional protection
against cross-connection may be required as specified by the director at the
customer's expense before reclaimed water service is resumed. A violation of
this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
   (c)   Right of entry. In addition to the authority to enter property
contained in sections
24-281 and
24-283 the director or his/her designated representative may enter any premises
to determine the presence of any cross connections or other potential hazards
to the county potable water system. Each customer of reclaimed water service
shall, by completing the reclaimed water application, give written consent to
such entry upon the customer's premises.
(Ord. of 7-7-2003, § XIII; Amend. of 12-6-2021)
Sec. 24-289. - Service interruption.
   The county reserves the right to temporarily discontinue service to any
portion or all of the reclaimed water system as deemed necessary by the
director. In addition, the director shall have the authority to establish
schedules which restrict the use of reclaimed water at certain times in order
to reduce maximum hydraulic demands on the system and to regulate usage during
periods of limited reclaimed water availability.
(Ord. of 7-7-2003, § XIV)
Sec. 24-290. - Maintenance by customer.
   The property owner and/or customer shall be responsible for the maintenance
of all reclaimed water lines and appurtenances on the customer's property,
unless the meter was, of necessity, located beyond the customer's property
line, in which case the customer shall be responsible for all reclaimed water
lines and appurtenances on the customer's side of the meter. The county
reserves the right to disconnect the service to any property when the reclaimed
water system and appurtenances are not properly maintained.
(Ord. of 7-7-2003, § XV)
Sec. 24-291. - Conservation of water resources.
   It is the policy of Johnston County to wisely use natural resources. In
addition to all other conservation measures contained in this chapter, the
county may terminate, suspend or discontinue reclaimed water service if
customer usage of reclaimed water increases substantially over the overall
loading rates outlined in the customer's application for service.
(Ord. of 7-7-2003, § XVI)
Sec. 24-292. - Right to refuse service.
   The county makes no guarantees that reclaimed water service will be
provided, or once provided, continued. The county may, at any time, and from
time to time, refuse to extend or suspend or terminate service on the basis of
a use detrimental to the system, an inadequate supply of reclaimed water, the
failure to pay required fees, or for any other reason which, in the judgment of
the director, will cause the continuation of service not to be to the benefit
of the county.
(Ord. of 7-7-2003, § XVII)
Sec. 24-293. - Ownership by county.
   All reclaimed water facilities and appurtenances within dedicated public
easements and/or rights-of-way, when constructed or accepted by the county,
shall become and remain the property of the county. No person shall by payment
of any charges provided herein, or by causing any construction of facilities
accepted by the county acquire any interest or right in any of these facilities
or any portion thereof, other than the privilege of having their property
connected thereto for reclaimed water service in accordance with this article
and any amendments thereof.
(Ord. of 7-7-2003, § XVIII)
Sec. 24-294. - Conflict.
   As to the provision of reclaimed water service, in the event of a conflict
with the provisions of any other county ordinance, the provisions of this
article shall take priority over other ordinance provisions.
(Ord. of 7-7-2003, § XIX)
Appendix A - RESERVED [30] 
   (30) Editor's note—Amend. of 6-2-2008(1) deleted app. A, which pertained to
schedule of fees and charges and derived from Ord. of 1-1-1978; Ord. of 4-6-
1987; Ord. of 2-4-1991; Ord. of 8-4-1997; Ord. of 5-8-2000(1); and Amend. of 9-
13-2004.
APPENDIX B - RESERVED [31] 
   (31) Editor's note—Amend. of 6-1-2009(3), adopted June 1, 2009, deleted
appendix B, which pertained to personnel ordinances and derived from an
ordinance adopted June 1, 1998; and Amend. of 3-10-2009.
CODE COMPARATIVE TABLE - ORDINANCES
   This is a chronological listing of the ordinances and resolutions of the
county used in this Code. Repealed or superseded laws at the time of the
codification and any omitted materials are not reflected in this table.
Date Section  Section this Code
Date           Section              Section this Code
10-21-1975(1)  1                   6-71 
(Ord.)
1-1-1978(Ord.)                    App. A, §
                                    6-39 
                                 6-31 
              2—6               6-33—
                                    6-37 
              7                   6-40 
              8, 9                6-38,
                                    6-39 
              10                  6-32 
11-26-1979                        12-71
(Ord.)
                                 12-76
              I                   12-72
              II, III             12-74, 12-75
              V—VIII            12-77—12-80
              XI                  12-73
10-5-1981                         22-31 
(Ord.)
              12.2—12.14        22-32—
                                    22-44 
1-5-1987(Ord.)                    2-1,
                                    2-2 
4-6-1987(1)    1, 2                18-91,
(Ord.)                              18-92 
              3—6               18-94—
                                    18-97 
              8                   18-93 
4-6-1987(2)    2, 3                18-98,
(Ord.)                              18-99 
4-6-1987(Ord.)                    App. A, § 20-96(b)
5-2-1988(Ord.)                    16-1 
9-6-1988(1)    1—3               8-1—
(Ord.)                              8-3 
              4—6               8-5—
                                    8-7 
              8                   8-4 
              10                  8-10 
9-6-1988(2)    1                   8-41 
(Ord.)
              2—8               8-43 
              9—12              8-44—
                                    8-47 
              13                  8-42 
              15                  8-48 
9-4-1990(Ord.) 1                   20-71 
              2, 3                20-75,
                                    20-76 
              4                   20-73 
9-4-1990(Res.)                    2-31 
12-3-1990                         20-74 
(Ord.)
              1                   20-72 
              2.1, 2.2            20-77,
                                    20-78 
              3—5               20-79—
                                    20-81 
              7                   20-73 
1-22-1991      1                   18-51 
(Ord.)
2-4-1991(Ord.)                    22-71 
                                 App. A, §
                                    22-71(a)
5-4-1992(Ord.)                    18-71—
                                    18-73 
4-3-1995(Ord.)                    App. A, §
                                    22-42(e)(1)
              12.3                22-32,
                                    22-33 
              12.4                22-34 
              12.6—12.8         22-36—
                                    22-38 
              12.9(G)             22-39 
6-5-1995(Ord.)                    6-75,
                                    6-76 
              art. I—art.       6-72—
               III                  6-74 
11-6-1995                         16-2 
(Ord.)
8-5-1996(Ord.) 1, 2                12-32,
                                    12-33 
              3                   12-31 
10-1-1996      1.1                 24-101 
(Ord.)
              1.2(a)              24-102 
              1.2(e)              24-103 
              2.1—2.7           24-121—
                                    24-127 
              2.8, 2.9            24-129,
                                    24-130 
              3.1—3.4           24-151—
                                    24-154 
              4.1, 4.2            24-171,
                                    24-172 
              5.1—5.13          24-191—
                                    24-203 
              6.1—6.3           24-221—
                                    24-223 
              7                   24-224 
              8.1—8.4           24-241—
                                    24-244 
              9, 10               24-245,
                                    24-246 
8-4-1997(Ord.)                    App. A, § 23-78(e)
              I, II               24-71,
                                    24-72 
              III—VII           24-74—
                                    24-78 
              VIII                24-73 
4-6-1998(Ord.) I—XIII            10-1—
                                    10-13 
10-4-1999                         20-36,
(Ord.)                              20-37 
              art. I              20-31 
              art. II             20-32 
              art. III            20-33 
              art. V              20-34 
              art. VIII           20-38 
              art. IX             20-40 
              art. X              20-39 
              art. XIII           20-41 
              art. XIV            20-35 
5-8-2000(1)                       4-10 
(Ord.)
                                 4-19 
                                 App. A, §
                                    4-17 
              1—3               4-1—
                                    4-3 
              4—7               4-6—
                                    4-9 
              9—16              4-11—
                                    4-18 
              18                  4-20 
              19, 20              4-4,
                                    4-5 
              22                  4-21 
7-10-2000      1.1—1.5           14-1—
(Ord.)                              14-5 
              1.6—1.9           14-7—
                                    14-10 
              1.9.1—1.9.6       14-11—
                                    14-16 
              1.10                14-17 
              2.1                 14-6 
              3.1, 3.2            14-51,
                                    14-52 
              4.1—4.3           14-71—
                                    14-73 
              4.3.1               14-74 
              4.4.1, 4.4.2        14-75,
                                    14-76 
              4.4.5               14-78 
              4.4.7—4.4.9       14-80—
                                    14-82 
              4.5                 14-101 
              4.5.1—4.5.5       14-102—
                                    14-106 
              4.6                 14-107 
              5.1, 5.2            14-131,
                                    14-132 
              5.3                 14-134 
              5.4, 5.5            14-133,
                                    14-134 
              5.6                 14-134 
              5.7.1—5.7.4       14-151—
                                    14-154 
              5.8.1—5.8.4       14-171—
                                    14-174 
              5.8.8, 5.8.9        14-176,
                                    14-177 
              5.8.5—5.8.7       14-175 
              5.9.1—5.9.4       14-201—
                                    14-204 
              5.10.1—5.10.4     14-221—
                                    14-224 
              5.10.4.1            14-225 
              5.10.5—5.10.8     14-226—
                                    14-229 
              5.11                14-230 
              5.12.1              14-231 
              5.12.2.1            14-232 
              6.1—6.7           14-251—
                                    14-257 
              7.1, 7.2            14-291,
                                    14-292 
              7.3.1—7.3.5       14-293—
                                    14-297 
              7.4, 7.5            14-298,
                                    14-299 
              7.6                 14-321 
              7.6.1, 7.6.2        14-322,
                                    14-323 
              7.6.4—7.6.11      14-324—
                                    14-331 
              8.1—8.4           14-351—
                                    14-354 
              8.4.1, 8.4.2        14-355,
                                    14-356 
              8.5—8.7           14-357—
                                    14-359 
              8.8.1, 8.8.2        14-360 
              8.8.3               14-361 
              8.9—8.12          14-362—
                                    14-365 
              9.1, 9.2            14-381,
                                    14-382 
              9.2.1               14-383 
              9.3                 14-384 
              9.4                 14-388 
              9.5                 14-387 
              9.5.1               14-390 
              9.6                 14-391 
              9.10                14-395 
              10.1—10.4         14-421—
                                    14-424 
              10.5.1, 10.5.2      14-425,
                                    14-426 
              10.5.3              14-454 
              10.5.4—10.5.7     14-427—
                                    14-430 
              10.6.1              14-451 
              10.6.2              14-455 
              10.6.3, 10.6.4      14-452,
                                    14-453 
              10.6.5              14-456 
              10.7.1, 10.7.2      14-481 
              10.7.3—10.7.5     14-482—
                                    14-484 
              11.1, 11.2          14-501,
                                    14-502 
              11.3—11.12        14-502—
                                    14-511 
              11.12.1,            14-511 
               11.12.2
              11.12.3,            14-512,
               11.12.4              14-513 
              11.13               14-514 
              12.1—12.7         14-551—
                                    14-557 
              13.1—13.3         14-591—
                                    14-593 
              14.1—14.4         14-611—
                                    14-614 
              15.1                14-631 
              15.3                14-633 
              16.1—16.4         14-651—
                                    14-654 
7-11-2000      4.4.5               14-77 
(Ord.)
7-20-2000      9.7, 9.8            14-393 
(Ord.)
11-6-2000                         24-2 
(Ord.)
              1                   24-1 
              3—9               24-3—
                                    24-9 
11-13-2000     4.4.1               14-75 
(Ord.)
              4.4.4               14-77 
              4.5.2.2             14-103 
              11.10.1             14-509 
              11.13.2             14-514 
              12.2.2              14-552 
              12.5.2, 12.5.3      14-555 
              14.4                14-614 
12-2-2000                         24-102 
(Ord.)
1-2-2001(Ord.) 9.1, 9.2            14-381,
                                    14-382 
              9.2.1               14-383 
              9.3, 9.4            14-384,
                                    14-385 
              9.5, 9.6            14-388,
                                    14-389 
              9.7                 14-387 
              9.7.1               14-390 
              9.8—9.12          14-391—
                                    14-395 
              9.13                14-386 
2-12-2001      4.4.1.3             14-75 
(Ord.)
              4.4.1.6.1           14-75 
6-11-2001      1(1.1), 1(1.2)      5-31 
(Ord.)
              1(1.3), 1(1.4)      5-32 
              1(1.5)              5-33 
              2                   5-34 
              3, 4                5-61,
                                    5-62 
              5(5.1)—(5.3)      5-63 
              6—11              5-64—
                                    5-69 
7-9-2001(Ord.) 14-75, 14-76         
                                 14-78 
                                 14-80—
                                    14-82 
                                 14-104—
                                    14-106 
                                 14-226 
11-12-2001     5.10.5         Added 14-226(4)
(Ord.)
12-2-2001      2.7                 24-128 
(Ord.)
12-3-2001      6.7.12              14-257(o)
12-3-2001                         24-127—
(Ord.)                              24-130 
1-14-2002                         14-632 
(Ord.)
3-4-2002(Ord.)                    Adopting ordinance, p. xi
5-13-2002                    Rpld  Ch. 12, Art. III
                                 14-173 
7-1-2002                          24-242(a)
(Amend.)
3-10-2003                         14-105(m), (n)(1)
(Amend.)
4-14-2003                         14-6 
(Amend.)
5-12-2003                         14-75(b)(7)
(Amend.)
5-12-2003                    Added 14-226(5), (6)
(Amend.)
7-7-2003                     Added 14-226(7)
(Amend.)
7-7-2003(Ord.) I—XIX        Added 24-275—
                                    24-294 
8-11-2003                         14-6 
(Amend.)
                            Added 14-75(b)(9)
                                 14-176 
                                 14-231(3)
10-13-2003     1                   1-6 
(Amend.)
              2              Added 14-614(c)
11-3-2003                         24-1—24-40
(Amend.)
1-13-2004                         14-105 
(Ord.)
2-9-2004                          14-75(g), (i)
(Amend.)
                            Added (i)
3-8-2004                          14-78(d),
(Amend.)                            14-79(d)
                                 14-80(d),
                                    14-81(d)
                                 14-82(e),
                                    14-104(f)(1)
7-12-2004      A)             Added 14-75(b)(10)
(Amend)
                                 14-75(c)
              B)                  14-75(d)(1)e.
                                 14-75(d)(2)e.
                                 14-76(f)(5)
                                 14-78(d)(4)
                                 14-79(d)(5)
                                 14-80(d)(5)
                                 14-81(d)(5)
                                 14-82(e)(5)
                                 14-104(f)(1)e.
                                 14-106(c)(2)3.
9-13-2004                         4-14(a)
(Amend.)
                            Added (b)
                                 App. A,
                                    Ch. 4 
11-8-2004                    Dltd  14-226(5)
(Amend.)
                            Added 14-173.1
                            Added 14-254(a)(1)
                            Added 14-366 
3-7-2005                     Added 14-103(b)
(Amend.)
                            Rltd  (b)
                            as    (c)
11-7-2005                         14-421,
(Ord.)                              14-423 
                                 14-424,
                                    14-429 
                                 14-430(6), (10)
                            Added (15)—(18)
                                 14-453(b), (f)
                                 14-456(f)(1)
                            Added (h)
                                 14-481(a)(3)
                            Added (10), (11)
                                 (b)(1), (2), (7)
                            Added (8)
                            Added 14-481a.
                                 14-482 
12-12-2005                        14-75(b)(10)
(Amend.)
                                 (c)(1)
12-12-2005                        14-225 
(Amend.)
5-1-2006(Ord.) 1—18         Added 3-1—
                                    3-265
5-1-2006                          14-75(b)(5)
(Amend.)
5-1-2006                     Added 14-79(b)(15)
(Amend.)
                            Rnbd  (15)—(20)
                            as    (16)—(21)
                            Added 14-80(b)(16)
                            Rnbd  (16)—(21)
                            as    (17)—(22)
5-1-2006                          14-81(b)(36)
(Amend.)
                                 14-82(b)(27)
7-10-2006                    Added 14-235—
(Amend.)                            14-247 
7-10-2006                         20-39 
(Amend.)
9-5-2006                          14-501—
                                    14-504 
                                 14-506—
                                    14-510 
                                 14-514 
12-4-2006                         14-75 
(Ord.)
1-2-2007                          14-481(a)(11)
2-5-2007       1—35              14-257(o)
2-5-2007                          14-75(b)(2)a.
4-2-2007                          14-632 
(Amend.)
5-5-2007                          14-504(12)
(Amend.)
8-6-2007                          14-6 
(Amend.)
                            Added 14-75(b)(11)
9-4-2007                          14-504 
(Amend.)
                                 14-507 
                                 14-508 
                                 14-509 
                                 14-510 
10-1-2007                         14-75(b)(7)
(Amend.)
12-3-2007                         14-633(b)
(Amend.)
3-3-2008                          14-632(a)
(Amend.)
3-3-2008                          24-71—
(Amend.)                            24-78 
                            Added 24-79 
3-3-2008                          24-102 
(Amend.)
                                 24-103 
                                 24-123(a)
                                 24-129 
                                 24-152 
                                 24-172(c)(3), (9), (d)
                                 (f)(3), (j)(1)
                                 (k)(1), (2)
                                 24-191(a)(5), (6)
                            Rltd  24-194(1)—(3)
                            as    (a)—(c)
                                 (a)
                                 24-195(a), (d)
                                 24-196(a)
                            Added (d)
                                 24-198 
                                 24-201 
                            Added 24-204 
                                 24-241(c), (f)
                            Added 24-242(a)(1), (2)
                                 24-245 
                            Added 24-247,
                                    24-248 
5-5-2008                          14-226(6)
(Amend.)
5-5-2008                          14-257(o)
(Amend.)
6-2-2008(1)                       1-6(f)(2)
(Amend.)
                            Dltd  App. A
6-2-2008(2)                       Ch. 10 title
(Amend.)
                                 10-1 
                                 10-2 
                                 10-5(g)
                                 10-10(4)
                                 10-12(a)
                                 10-13 
6-2-2008(3)                  Added 14-75(d)(3)
(Amend.)
10-6-2008(1)                      10-13(b)(6)
(Amend.)
10-6-2008(2)                 Added 14-226(8)
(Amend.)
10-6-2008(3)                      14-228 
(Amend.)
12-1-2008                         14-256(b)
(Amend.)
                                 14-653(h)
3-10-2009                         App. B, Art. VII, § 17
(Amend.)
6-1-2009(1)                       4-6 
(Amend.)
6-1-2009(2)                       14-131 
(Amend.)
                                 14-132 
                                 14-134 
                                 14-152 
                                 14-153 
                            Added 14-155 
                                 14-173 
                            Rnbd  14-173.1
                            as    14-174 
                            Rnbd  14-174—
                                    14-177 
                            as    14-175—
                                    14-178 
                                 14-201 
                                 14-222 
                                 14-226 
                                 14-228 
                                 14-230(b), (c)
                                 14-231 
6-1-2009(3)                  Dltd. App. B
(Amend.)
8-3-2009                          14-75(b)(1)
(Amend.)
                            Added (12), (13)
9-8-2009                          14-178 
(Amend.)
                                 14-592(a)
                            Dltd  14-633(d)(2)
                            Rnbd  (3)—(7)
                            as    (2)—(6)
                                 (g)(2)
1-4-2010(1                        14-75(f)—(j)
(Amend.)
1-4-2010(2)                       14-105(k)(1)
(Amend.)
2-3-2010(1)                       14-75(b)(1), (12), (13)
(Amend.)
                            Added (c)(12)
2-3-2010(2)                       14-366(2)(b), (c)
(Amend.)
3-1-2010                          4-1—
(Amend.)                            4-22 
4-5-2010                          24-72—
(Amend.)                            24-78 
                            Added 24-80 
5-3-2010                          14-257(j)—(l)
(Amend.)
9-7-2010                          14-6 
(Amend.)
12-06-2010                        14-51 
(Amend.)
                                 14-52 
                                 14-71 
                            Dltd  14-74 
                                 14-78 
                            Added 14-79 
                                 14-80 
                            Rnbd  14-79 
                            as    14-81 
                            Rnbd  14-81 
                            as    14-82 
                            Rnbd  14-82 
                            as    14-83 
                            Added 14-90 
                                 14-104 
1-3-2011                     Added 14-75(b)(14), (15)
(Amend.)
2-7-2011                          14-75(i)
(Amend.)
3-7-2011                     Added 16-3 
                                 12-32 
5-2-2011                     Added 14-89 
9-6-2011                     Added 14-115—
(Amend.)                            14-124 
                            Added 14-75(k)
                            Added 14-76(h)
                            Added 14-77(o)
                            Added 14-78(b)(2)
                            Added 14-79(b)(2)
                            Added 14-80(b)(2)
                            Added 14-81(b)(2)
                            Added 14-82(b)(2)
                            Added 14-83(b)(2)
                            Added 14-104(d)(2)
                            Added 14-257(k)(9)
                            Added 14-257(l)(9)
1- 15-2012                   Added 16-4
                            Added 16-5
                            Added 16-6
6-4-2012                          10-2
(Amend.)
7-2-2012                          14-8,
(Amend.)                            14-257
8-6-2012                          24-277,
(Amend.)                            24-279
9-4-2012                          12-31—
(Amend.)                            12-33
12-3-2012                         3-75
(Amend.)
3-4-2013                          24-101—24-274
(Amend.)
4-1-2013                          14-426
(Amend.)
5-6-2013                          14-393
(Amend.)
                                    Added   
6-3-2013                          14-681—
                                    14-701
7-1-2013                          14-75
(Amend.)
1-6-2014                          14-226
(Amend.)
1-6-2014                          14-393
(Amend.)
2-3-2014                          14-6,
(Amend.)                            14-75
                            Added 14-615
2-3-2014                          14-226
(Amend.)
4-7-2014                          Ch. 10 notes
(Amend.)
                                    10-1,
                                 10-2,
                                    10-13
4-7-2014                          14-257 (o)
(Amend.)
12-1-2014                         14-593
(Amend.)
9-1-2015                          14-123
(Amend.)
3-7-2015                          14-134
(Amend.)
6-6-2016                     Added 4-14A
(Amend.)
                            Dltd. 4-4
                                    4-2,
                                    4-3,
                                    4-5—
                                 4-14,
                                    4-15,
                                    4-17,
                                    4-20—
                                    4-22
11-7-2016                         14-75,
(Amend.)                            14-257
2-6-2017                          Ch. 10 notes
(Amend.)
3-5-2018                          14-75
(Amend.)
4-2-2018                     Dltd. 14-421—14-430, 14-451—14-456, 14-481—14-485
(Amend.)
                            Added 14-421—
                                    14-448
8-6-2018                     Added 16-7
                                    14-75,
3-4-2019                          14-77,
(Amend.)                            14-89,
                                    14-257
12-2-2019                         8-43
(Amend.)
                                    10-1,
                                    10-2,
8-3-2020                          10-4,
(Amend.)                            10-5,
                                    10-11,
                                    10-12
8-3-2020                          14-89
(Amend.)
                                    14-75,
                                    14-103,
8-3-2020                            14-105,
(Amend.)                          14-155,
                                    14-257,
                                    14-551—
                                    14-557
1-4-2021                          14-155
(Amend.)
                                    14-2,
                                    14-6,
                                    14-10—
                                    14-16,
                                    14-51,
                                    14-75,
                                    14-77—
                                    14-83,
                                    14-104,
                                    14-105,
                                    14-132—
                                    14-134,
                                    14-151,
                                    14-152,
                                    14-173,
                                    14-225,
                                    14-235,
                                    14-238—
- - (Amend.)                      14-241,
                                    14-252,
                                    14-254—
                                    14-257,
                                    14-293,
                                    14-295,
                                    14-324,
                                    14-384,
                                    14-435,
                                    14-444,
                                    14-502,
                                    14-504,
                                    14-506,
                                    14-592—
                                    14-594,
                                    14-613,
                                    14-631—
                                    14-633,
                                    14-652—
                                    14-654
                                    1-6,
                                    4-5,
                                    8-42,
                                    8-43,
                                    12-32,
12-6-2021                           16-1,
(Amend.)                          16-3—
                                    16-6,
                                    18-94,
                                    20-37,
                                    20-40,
                                    20-41,
                                    24-288
                                    14-421,
7-18-2022                         14-425,
(Amend)                             14-427,
                                    14-448
5-1-2023                     Added 4-16
(Amend)
                                    4-3,
                                 4-14,
                                    4-17—
                                    4-22
10-2-2023                         10-1—
(Amend)                             10-12
                            Dltd. 10-13
                                    14-681—
12-13-23                          14-694,
(Amend.)                            14-696—
                                    14-701
                            Dltd. 14-695
                                   
 
STATE LAW REFERENCE TABLE
   This table shows the location within this Code, either in the text or notes
following the text, of references to the North Carolina General Statutes.
G.S. Section this Code
G.S.                         Section this Code
1-593                        1-2 
1A-1, rule 4                 14-393
                            14-698
                            14-699
ch. 7A                       14-438
14-4                         1-6 
                            12-31
                            12-32
                            16-1
                            16-3
                            16-4
                            16-5
                            16-6
                            18-72 
                            18-93 
                            20-35 
                            24-280 
14-202.10 et seq.            6-76 
14-288.7                     8-43 
14-288.8(c)(5)               8-43 
14-288.13                    Ch. 8 
                            8-41 
14-288.20A                   8-42
                            8-43
14-360 et seq.               4-14 
14-410 et seq.               12-33 
14-415.23                    16-2 
14-594(b)(c)                 14-699
18B-1001                     16-7
19A-31.1F                    4-17
ch. 20, art. 12              14-6 
20-137.14                    14-6 
ch. 29                       14-6
47-30                        14-230 
62A-3 et seq.                Ch. 22, Art. III
62A-3(4)                     22-71 
62A-3(8)                     22-71 
62A-5                        22-71 
63-1                         14-393
63-79(1)                     14-393
67-4.1                       4-13 
67-4.1(c)                    4-13 
74-46—74-68                20-34 
ch. 87                       6-33 
90-620 et seq.               Ch. 6, Art. III
105-277.2(1, 2, 3)           3-75 
105-277.2–105-277.6        14-393
105-277.3                    14-6 
105-330.9                    14-6 
106-2 et seq.                14-7 
106-581.1                    3-75
106-735—106-744            3-26 
106-740                      3-145 
                            3-146 
106-744(e)(1)                3-48 
106-758                      3-75
ch. 110, art. 7              14-6 
ch. 113, subch. IV           12-33
                            16-3 
113A                         20-81 
113A-1 et seq.               14-686
113A-56(a)                   14-684
113A-57(2)                   14-686
113A-57(3)                   14-701
113A-61(c)                   14-697
113A-61.1                    14-686
113A-64                      14-698
                            14-699
113A-64(b)                   14-686
115C-457.2                   14-699
121-35                       3-75 
130-184—130-200            4-10 
ch. 130A                     20-33 
ch. 130A, art. 9             14-425
130A-200                     4-10 
130A-251 et seq.             Ch. 18, Art. III
                            18-91 
130A-290(a)(6)               14-425
130A-290(a)(36)              14-425
130A-301.2                   20-37 
130A-311-343                 14-134 
130A-317                     24-7 
130A-317(d)                  24-1 
                            24-3 
ch. 130A, art.10             14-6 
ch. 130A, art.11             14-6 
130B-2(b)(1)                 20-77 
130B-11                      20-80 
131E-158                     10-12 
136-18(29)                   14-254
136-32                       14-504
ch. 143, art. 21, part 6     14-421
ch. 143, art. 33C            14-633 
143-138                       
143-138.9 et seq.            14-632 
143-143.15                   14-440
143-212                      14-393
143-213(18)                  24-102 
143-214.1                    20-34 
143-214.5                    14-105 
143-214.10                   14-393
143-215.1                    24-102 
                            24-172 
143-215.1(b)                 24-172 
143-215.1(f)                 24-1 
                            24-3 
                            24-7 
143-215.3(a)(14)             24-102 
143-215.6B                   24-243 
143-215.6B(i)                24-243 
143-215.6B(g), 143-215.6B(h) 24-243 
143-215.58                   14-433
                            14-437
143-215.66(B)                24-243 
143-755                      14-133
143A-215.75 et seq.          20-34 
143B-165                     10-1 
143B-290                     20-34 
ch. 150B                     14-699
ch. 150B, art. 3             14-393
ch. 150B, art. 4             14-393
150B-14(c)                   14-683
ch. 152A, art. 18            5-32 
153-123                      24-5 
ch. 153A                     3-26 
                            20-33 
ch. 153A, art. 6             14-2
ch. 153A, art. 6, part 121   14-421
ch. 153A, art. 18            14-393
153A-45                      16-1 
153A-60 et seq.              Ch. 2, Art. II
153A-76 et seq.              Ch. 2 
153A-81 et seq.              2-1 
153A-82                      2-2 
153A-101, 153A-102           Ch. 20, Art. III
153A-121                     14-393
                            18-91 
                            Ch. 20, Art. III
153A-121 et seq.             Ch. 12 
153A-122                     6-33 
153A-123                     1-6 
                            4-5 
                            6-32 
153A-123(c)                  4-5 
153A-123(d), (3)             20-74 
153A-127                     Ch. 4 
153A-131                     Ch. 4 
153A-132.1                   Ch. 20 
153A-132.2                   14-6
153A-132.2(a3)               14-615
153A-133                     Ch. 12, Art. II
153A-134                     Ch. 6 
153A-136                     Ch. 20, Art. II
153A-137                     Ch. 22 
153A-140                     14-393
153A-145.7                   16-7
153A-201                     3-189 
153A-238 et seq.             Ch. 18 
153A-240                     18-51 
153A-250                     Ch. 10 
153A-274 et seq.             Ch. 24 
153A-291 et seq.             Ch. 20 
153A-321                     14-236 
153A-341(e)                  14-241(a)
153A-344.1                   14-10—
                             14-12 
                            14-15,
                             14-16 
153A-345                     14-393
153A-345(b)                  14-242(b)
153A-365                     5-31 
159-48(b)(1)                 14-393
159-81                       14-393
159-97                       14-393
ch. 160A, art. 19            14-393
160A-1                       1-2 
160A-79                      1-1 
160A-174                     14-393
160A-175                     1-6 
                            24-280 
160A-193                     14-393
160A-307                     14-254
160A-312                     24-101 
164-7                        1-9 
166A-1 et seq.               Ch. 8 
166A-8                       8-41 
166A-14, 166A-15             8-8,
                             8-9 
168-21                       14-6 
ch. 160D                     14-2,
                             14-105
ch. 160D, art. 7             14-421
ch. 160D, art. 8             14-132
ch. 160D, art. 9             14-421
ch. 160D, art. 9, part 3     14-257
ch. 160D, art. 10            14-235
ch. 160D, art. 11            14-421
                             14-10,
                             14-11,
160D-108                     14-15,
                             14-241,
                             14-384
160D-108(d)                  14-133
                             14-10–
                             14-12,
160D-108.1                   14-15,
                             14-241,
                             14-384 
                             14-654
160D-108.1(f)                14-241
160D-109                     14-631,
                             14-632
160D-405                     14-592
160D-406(i)                  14-594
160D-406(k)                  14-254
160D-601                     14-653
160D-602(b)                  14-653
160D-702(b)                  14-254
                             14-51,
                             14-75,
160D-703                     14-78–
                             14-83,
                             14-104
160D-705                     14-593
160D-804.1                   14-240
160D-931(19)                 14-257
160D-934                     14-257
160D-935                     14-257
160D-1005                    14-239
160D-1008                    14-240
160D-1111                    14-13
160D-1115                    14-13
160D-1402                    14-254
160D-1402(c)                 14-254
164-7                        1-9
166A-1 et seq.               Ch. 8
166A-8                       8-41
166A-14, 166A-15             8-8,
                             8-9
168-21                       14-6 
                             
 
