KENANSVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Local Legislation Ord. passed 5-6-2019
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet:  http://www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
Editor’s Note:
   The Charter for the Town of Kenansville is found in the various North
Carolina session laws.
     The Charter is not reproduced here in the code of ordinances; however,
copies of the Charter are on file in the office of the Town Clerk and are
available for public inspection during regular town business hours.
   The laws creating and amending the Kenansville Charter are listed in the
following chart:
North Carolina Private Laws of 1816,    Authorizing the Town of Kenansville to
Chapter CXXXIV                          be laid out
(year?) Chapter C                       Appointing Commissioners for the Town
                                        of Kenansville
                                        Authorizing and empowering Duplin
Laws of North Carolina, Chapter LXIX    County Commissioners to purchase land
                                        adjacent to the town lots of
                                        Kenansville
Laws of North Carolina, Chapter CLXXIV  Appointing Commissioners for the town
Laws of North Carolina, Chapter CXLIII  Authorizing the Town Commissioners to
                                        sell part of the town commons
Chapter LVI, ratified 1-11-1841         Appointing Commissioners for the town
Chapter CCCXVIII, ratified 1-27-1851    Extending the limits of the town
Laws of North Carolina, Session 1852,   Incorporating the Town of Kenansville
Chapter CCVIII, ratified 12-27-1852     in the County of Duplin
Laws of 1859, Chapter 216, ratified 1-  Amending the act incorporating the Town
31-1859                                 of Kenansville, and providing for the
                                        better government of the town
                                        An act to continue in office the
Laws of 1866, Chapter 21, ratified 1-   provisional Commissioners of
26-1866                                 Kenansville, who were in office at the
                                        termination of the provisional
                                        government of the state
Laws of 1871, Chapter CXLIX, ratified   An act to construct a railroad from
3-23-1871                               Kenansville in Duplin County to Clinton
                                        in Sampson County
Laws of 1879, Chapter 73, ratified 3-   An act to amend the acts incorporating
12-1879                                 the Town of Kenansville, by setting the
                                        corporate limits
Private Laws, Chapter 275, ratified 3-  An act to regulate local option at
7-1891                                  Kenansville
Private Laws of 1899, Chapter 174,      An act to amend and consolidate the
ratified 3-4-1899                       Charter of the Town of Kenansville
Laws of 1905, Chapter 2, ratified 3-2-  An act to amend Chapter 174, Private
1905                                    Laws of 1899
Laws of 1907, Chapter 154, ratified 2-  An act to provide for the working of
12-1907                                 the public road known as the
                                        Kenansville and Magnolia Sand-Clay Road
                                        An act to authorize the Board of
Extra Session 1921, Chapter 21,         Commissioners of Duplin County to issue
ratified 12-14-1921                     bonds to build a jail and to locate and
                                        condemn a site for same in Kenansville
Laws of 1931, Chapter 479, ratified 5-  An act to empower Duplin County to
21-1931                                 extend and protect its courthouse
                                        square in the Town of Kenansville
Laws of 1935, Chapter 477, ratified 5-  An act to permit Duplin County to
8-1935                                  condemn land adjacent to its courthouse
                                        square in the Town of Kenansville
1947 Session Laws, Chapter 811,         An act to amend the Charter of the Town
ratified 4-3-1947                       of Kenansville, reforming the corporate
                                        limits
                                        An act authorizing the establishment of
                                        a town liquor control store in the Town
Laws of 1949, Chapter 1169, ratified 4- of Kenansville upon a vote of the
22-1949                                 people and providing for the allocation
                                        fo the net proceeds from the operation
                                        of such store
                                        An act to authorize the Mayor and Board
                                        of Commissioners of the Town of
                                        Kenansville to execute on behalf of the
1957 Session Laws, Chapter 1161,        town a deed to certain property in the
ratified 6-7-1957                       town to the County Board of Education
                                        of Duplin County and for the County
                                        Board of Education to exchange said
                                        property with Duplin County
                                        An act to amend the Charter of the Town
1967 Session Laws, Chapter 1194,        of Kenansville so as to provide for the
ratified 7-6-1967                       election of the Mayor and members of
                                        the Board of Commissioners
1973 Session, Chapter 329, Senate Bill  An act to validate the private sale of
517, ratified 5-7-1973                  certain real property formerly owned by
                                        the Town of Kenansville ABC Board
1977 Session, Chapter 257, House Bill   An act to authorize the Town of
698, ratified 4-25-1977                 Kenansville to sell or lease a tract of
                                        land by private negotiation
1979 Session, Chapter 236, House Bill   An act to expand the territorial
697, ratified 4-2-1979                  jurisdiction of Kenansville police
                                        officers
1981 Session, Chapter 315, House Bill   An act to allow the Town of Kenansville
574, ratified 5-4-1981                  to increase the tax levy on motor
                                        vehicles to a maximum of $5
                                        An act to allow the Town of Kenansville
                                        and the Duplin County Board of
1987 Session, Chapter 50, House Bill    Education to lease certain property to
19, ratified 4-9-1987                   the Duplin County Agri-Business
                                        Council, Inc., for the purpose of
                                        creating an agricultural display area
                                        and livestock arena
Session 1999, Session Law 1999-54,      An act providing that the Town of
Senate Bill 534, ratified 5-18-1999     Kenansville is not obligated to provide
                                        services to certain annexed property
 
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Kenansville shall be
designated as the “Code of Kenansville, North Carolina”, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code, unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS or TOWN BOARD. The governing body of the Town of
Kenansville, North Carolina.
      CHARTER. The Charter of the Town of Kenansville, North Carolina.
      CODE,THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This  municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. Duplin County, North Carolina.
      GOVERNING BODY. The Town Board or Board of Commissioners of Kenansville,
North Carolina.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving that authority to a majority
of those persons or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath and, in those cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the municipality, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of that property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto
within the town, and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of that building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      TOWN or MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Kenansville, North Carolina.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the town shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in a section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within the town for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.12  REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15  EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   (1)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend,
repeal or in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the
numbering system hereof and printed for inclusion herein.
      (2)   When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, subchapter, section
or division, or any portion thereof, the repealed portions may be excluded from
this code by omission from reprinted pages.
      (3)   The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in
the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code by the town.
   (B)   (1)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in language substantially similar to the following:  “Section            
   of the Code of Ordinances, Town of Kenansville, North Carolina, is hereby
amended as follows: ...”
      (2)   The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   (1)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be
added, language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code
of Ordinances, Town of Kenansville, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding
a section, to be numbered                , which section shall read as follows:
...”
      (2)   The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, subchapters, chapters or provisions desired to be
repealed must be specifically repealed by section, subchapter or chapter
number, as the case may be.
§ 10.18  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. passed 5-13-1960; Ord.
passed 1-1-1970; Ord. passed 1-1-1980; Ord. passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (G.S. §
160A-11)  (Ord. passed 1-17-1980; Ord. passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
         § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of any
section or division of this code of ordinances for which no other penalty is
provided, or failing or neglecting or refusing to comply with same, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine
of not more than $500 as provided by G.S. § 14-4(a), or imprisonment not to
exceed 20 days, as provided by G.S. § 15A-1340.23.
Statutory reference:
   Power to enforce ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN GOVERNMENT
      
31.   FINANCE
      
32.   TOWN POLICIES
CHAPTER 30:  TOWN GOVERNMENT
Section
   
30.01   Municipal elections; date
§ 30.01  MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS; DATE.
   The town will have non-partisan elections, decided by a plurality. Elections
shall be held on the date and conducted in the manner prescribed by applicable
state law.
(Res. passed 11-1-1971)
CHAPTER 31:  FINANCE
Section
   
31.01   Investment of town funds
§ 31.01  INVESTMENT OF TOWN FUNDS.
   The town’s Board of Commissioners authorizes the Town Clerk to invest all
available cash balances at competitive rates of interest.
(Res. passed 7-5-1971)
CHAPTER 32:  TOWN POLICIES
Section
   
32.01   Concealed handguns on town property; signs posting prohibition
§ 32.01  CONCEALED HANDGUNS ON TOWN PROPERTY; SIGNS POSTING PROHIBITION.
   (A)   Posting of signs required. The town’s Board of Commissioners is hereby
authorized and instructed to post conspicuous signage at appropriate locations
on or within the following municipal property, indicating that carrying a
concealed handgun is prohibited therein:
      (1)   Town Hall;
      (2)   Maintenance building;
      (3)   Wastewater treatment plant;
      (4)   Municipal park;
      (5)   Turkey Stadium ball field;
      (6)   Forty-acre industrial park;
      (7)   Three well sites located on Lodge Street, Bostic Street and
Limestone Street; and
      (8)   Four lift stations, located:
         (a)   On West Grove Circle;
         (b)   On Church Street;
         (c)   At James Sprunt Community College; and
         (d)   Off Williamson Street in Pine Crest Acres Subdivision.
   (B)   Location of signs. Signs on buildings shall be visibly posted on the
exterior of each entrance by which the general public can access the building.
The town’s Board of Commissioners shall exercise discretion in determining the
number and appropriate location of signs to be placed on, or within,
appurtenant premises and parks.
(Ord. passed 12-4-1995)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit concealed handguns on municipal property where posted,
see G.S. §§ 14-415.11(c) and 14-415.23
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WASTEWATER
      
51.   WATER; CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
CHAPTER 50:  WASTEWATER
Section
Wastewater System
   
50.01   Control and supervision
   
50.02   Available wastewater service; connection required
   
50.03   Connection; permit required
   
50.04   Work on connections; license; inspections
   
50.05   Connection fee
   
50.06   Separate building connections required
   
50.07   Maintenance and repair of service connections; responsibility
   
50.08   Prohibited discharges
   
50.09   Damage or obstruction of system prohibited
   
50.10   Wastewater charges
Requests for Wastewater Service Extensions
   
50.25   Requests for wastewater service extension
   
50.26   Standards and specifications
   
50.27   Costs
   
50.28   Extension by town; assessment authority
Grease Control
   
50.40   Scope and purpose
   
50.41   Definitions
   
50.42   Grease interceptor maintenance, record keeping and grease removal
   
50.43   Enforcement
 
   
50.99   Penalty
WASTEWATER SYSTEM
§ 50.01  CONTROL AND SUPERVISION.
   The wastewater system of the town shall be under the general control and
supervision of the Board of Commissioners, and the system shall be regulated
and operated as the Board of Commissioners shall from time to time ordain and
direct. The Board of Commissioners shall appoint a qualified person to
supervise the operation and regulation of the system, under the direction of
the Board of Commissioners, and the person appointed shall be known as the
Wastewater Inspector; or the Board of Commissioners may assign the duties of
supervising the wastewater system to an employee of the town in addition to his
or her other duties.
(Ord. passed 1-4-1971)
§ 50.02  AVAILABLE WASTEWATER SERVICE; CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person, group of persons, firm or corporation, owning a
dwelling, building or other structure which is used for human habitation or
occupancy within the town, situated on a lot or parcel of land which abuts or
adjoins a street or other public way along which is located a wastewater
system, shall connect that dwelling, building or structure to the wastewater
system of the town; provided, however, a connection shall not be required to
the system unless the lot or parcel of land on which the dwelling, building or
structure is located is accessible within 200 feet of the wastewater system;
provided, further, that, no person shall be required to cross the private
property of any other person to make the connection. Where connections are
required, all toilets, sinks and other plumbing fixtures shall be installed,
arranged or rearranged to drain into the sanitary system. Properties which are
not accessible to the wastewater system for the reason they are more than 200
feet therefrom shall install septic tanks or other facilities as provided for
by ordinance of the town.
   (B)   (1)   After 8-1-1971, no septic tanks within the town limits can be
repaired, extended or new tanks installed, unless town services are
unavailable.
      (2)   After 8-1-1973, each business establishment, dwelling house and
house trailer will be required to join the town wastewater system. Septic tanks
will not be allowed within the town limits, unless town sewer services are
unavailable.
(Ord. passed 1-4-1971)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03  CONNECTION; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall make any connection to the wastewater
system unless and until a permit therefor has been issued by the town. Permits
shall be issued for connection only after the Wastewater Inspector has
determined the type of connection required, the type of waste to be placed in
the system and, if required by the town, an approved plumbing system within the
dwelling, building or structure desiring the connection.
(Ord. passed 1-4-1971)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04  WORK ON CONNECTIONS; LICENSE; INSPECTIONS.
   All connections to the wastewater system shall be made by authorized
employees of the town in accordance with specifications for those connections
that may be adopted by the town from time to time. If authorized by the Board
of Commissioners, connections may be made by plumbers licensed to perform
plumbing work in the state and, if required by the town, licensed to perform
plumbing work by the town. Any wastewater connections made by an authorized
licensed plumber shall be inspected by the Wastewater Inspector after the work
has been done, completed and prior to the time the connection is in operation.
(Ord. passed 1-4-1971)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05  CONNECTION FEE.
   A fee shall be charged for each and every connection to the sanitary sewer
system. The connection fee shall be paid to the town prior to the issuance of
any permit for a connection. The fee charged shall be determined by a schedule
of fees adopted by the Town Board each year.
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06  SEPARATE BUILDING CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   Each separate dwelling, structure or other building shall have a separate
connection to the system; provided that, apartments or other multi-use or
occupancy building may have one combined connection.
(Ord. passed 1-4-1971)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07  MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF SERVICE CONNECTIONS; RESPONSIBILITY.
   Whenever any service to any building or premises becomes clogged, broken,
out of order or in any condition detrimental to the use of the wastewater
services, the owner, agent or occupant having charge of the building or
premises shall be held responsible for the immediate renewal or repair of that
wastewater service necessary to maintain an uninterrupted sanitary disposal
system. Repairs made to lines from property line or cleanout to structure is
the responsibility of owner, agent or occupant. Repairs made to lines from
property lines or cleanout to main is the responsibility of the town. Whenever
any repair work is performed as required by this section, the work shall be
performed only by a licensed plumber approved by the town to perform this type
of work by the town.
(Ord. passed 1-4-1971)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.08  PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit,
or cause to be deposited or discharged, or permit to be discharged into any
part of the wastewater system the following substances:
      (1)   Any corrosive, volatile, inflammable or explosive liquid, gas,
vapor or material of any kind;
      (2)   Any acid trade waste or effluent from the manufacture of chemicals
or other products in which acid or chemicals are used as part of the process of
treatment or manufacture;
      (3)   Any trade waste containing oily and greasy substances, likely to
cause accretion on the sides of the wastewater system;
      (4)   Any used motor oils or greases, or similar substances;
      (5)   Any trade waste containing large quantities of hair or fiber or
other substances which may obstruct the wastewater system or cause any undue
cleaning of the wastewater system; or
      (6)   Any fish offal, garbage, dead animals or similar types of waste.
   (B)   No person operating a garage or filling station who offers as service
the washing of automobiles, trucks or other vehicles shall release into the
wastewater system water so used, without first providing a settling basin of
sufficient size to permit the sedimentation of the solids from those
operations. This basin or pit shall be maintained in good working condition and
shall be cleaned as often as required to remove the major portion of mud and
other refuse that may be accumulated therein.
(Ord. passed 1-4-1971)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.09  DAMAGE OR OBSTRUCTION OF SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, tamper with or otherwise do
harm to the mains, pipes, apparatus or other part of the wastewater system, or
to place or cause to be placed any object of any nature whatsoever into the
system that will block or obstruct or impede the normal flow in the system.
(Ord. passed 1-4-1971)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.10  WASTEWATER CHARGES.
   (A)   A fee shall be charged for the use of the sanitary sewer system. The
fee charged shall be determined by a schedule of fees adopted by the Town Board
each year.
   (B)   The wastewater charge shall be billed to each consumer at the same
time that water bills are rendered and shall be collected at the same time and
in the same manner as water accounts.
   (C)   Any consumer who uses a large quantity of water which is not returned
to the town wastewater system may, without any cost or expense to the town,
install a separate water meter to measure the amount of water so used, and will
be billed by the town each month for the water so used at regular water rates
in effect for the town, and will be charged no wastewater charge for this
meter.
(Ord. passed 1-4-1971; Ord. passed 6-7-1976)  Penalty, see §
50.99
REQUESTS FOR WASTEWATER
SERVICE EXTENSIONS
§ 50.25  REQUESTS FOR WASTEWATER SERVICE EXTENSION.
   From and after the effective date of this subchapter, any property owner, or
owners, desiring wastewater service shall apply in writing to the Town Board
requesting the extension of wastewater service. No request for the extension of
services shall be considered unless submitted in writing in accordance with the
requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 1-10-1972)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.26  STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The minimum distance for any extension of a wastewater main shall be
determined by the Town Board. In general, wastewater extensions shall be from
manhole to manhole.
   (B)   The size of wastewater mains to be installed and the other required
system facilities shall be determined by the Town Board in accordance with the
recognized standards and accepted engineering practices and design.
(Ord. passed 1-10-1972)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.27  COSTS.
   (A)   When a request is made for the extension of wastewater service, the
town may, if funds are available, pay a portion of the cost of the extension,
not to exceed one-half, if the owner or owners of the property which abuts the
extension will pay the balance of the cost of the extension. In approving
requests for wastewater service extensions under this subchapter, the town will
take into consideration the feasibility of each situation separately, basing
approval on the number of units or users to be served and other factors as
appropriate.
   (B)   When a request for the extension of wastewater services has been
approved, and the project has been completed, the total cost thereof shall be
determined, and the portion of the total cost to be paid by the property owner
or owners whose property abuts the extension shall be assessed at an equal rate
per front foot. The remaining portion of the total cost of the extension
project will be paid by the town from funds appropriated for such purpose.
§ 50.28  EXTENSION BY TOWN; ASSESSMENT AUTHORITY.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent the Town Board from extending
wastewater mains within the corporate limits on its own motion without receipt
of an application from property owners, and to assess the cost of these
extensions as provided by law or ordinance when, in the opinion of the Board,
the general public interest demands those extensions of service.
(Ord. passed 1-10-1972)
GREASE CONTROL
§ 50.40  SCOPE AND PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to aid in the prevention of wastewater
blockages and obstructions from contributions and accumulation of fats, oils
and greases into said sewer system from industrial or commercial
establishments, particularly food preparation and serving facilities.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2005)
§ 50.41  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COOKING ESTABLISHMENTS. Those establishments engaged in activities of
preparing, serving or otherwise making available for consumption foodstuffs and
that use one or more of the following preparation activities: cooking by frying
(all methods); baking (all methods); grilling; sauteing; rotisserie cooking;
broiling (all methods); boiling; blanching; roasting; toasting; or poaching.
Also included are infrared heating, searing, barbecuing and any other food
preparation activity that produces a hot, non-drinkable food product in or on a
receptacle that requires washing. Such establishments include, but are not
limited to, restaurants, cafeterias, extended care facilities, school
cafeterias (public and private) and daycare facilities where meals for more
than six children are prepared, served or otherwise made available for human
consumption.
   FATS, OILS AND GREASES. Organic polar compounds derived from animal and/or
plant sources that contain multiple carbon chain triglyceride molecules. These
substances are detectable and measurable using analytical test procedures
established in 40 C.F.R. part 136, as may be amended from time to time. All are
sometimes referred to herein as GREASE or GREASES.
   GREASE TRAP OR INTERCEPTOR. An approved device for separating and retaining
waterborne greases and grease complexes prior to the wastewater exiting the
trap and entering the sanitary sewer collection and treatment system. These
devices also serve to collect settleable solids, generated by and from food
preparation activities, prior to the water exiting the trap and entering the
sanitary sewer collection and treatment system. GREASE TRAPS AND INTERCEPTORS
are sometimes referred to herein as GREASE INTERCEPTORS.
   MINIMUM DESIGN CAPABILITY. The design features of a grease interceptor and
its ability or volume required to effectively intercept and retain greases from
grease-laden wastewaters discharged to the public sanitary sewer.
   NON-COOKING ESTABLISHMENTS. Those establishments primarily engaged in the
preparation of precooked foodstuffs that do not include any form of cooking.
These include cold dairy and frozen foodstuffs preparation and serving
establishments.
   USER. Any person, including those located outside the jurisdictional limits
of the town, who contributes, causes or permits the contribution or discharge
of wastewater into the publicly-owned treatment works (POTW), including persons
who contribute such wastewater from mobile sources, such as those who discharge
hauled wastewater.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2005)
§ 50.42  GREASE INTERCEPTOR MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING AND GREASE REMOVAL.
   (A)   Grease interceptors shall be installed by users as required by the
Public Works Director or his or her designee. Grease interceptors shall be
installed at the user’s expense, when such user operates a cooking
establishment. Grease interceptors may also be required in non-cooking or cold
dairy and frozen foodstuffs establishments and other industrial or commercial
establishments when they are deemed necessary by the Director of Public Works/
Wastewater Superintendents for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing
grease. No user shall allow wastewater discharge concentration from subject
grease interceptor to exceed 325 milligrams per liter, as identified by method
EPA method 1664 or 275 milligrams per liter, as identified by EPA method 413.
   (B)   All grease interceptors shall be of a type, design and capacity
approved by the Public Works Director/Wastewater Superintendent or his or her
designee and shall be readily and easily accessible for user cleaning and town
inspection. All such grease interceptors shall be serviced and emptied of
accumulated waste content as required in order to maintain minimum design
capability or effective volume of the grease interceptor, but not less often
than every 30 days.
   (C)   Users who are required to pass water through a grease interceptor
shall:
      (1)   Provide for a minimum hydraulic retention time of 24 minutes at
actual peak flow or 12 minutes at the calculated theoretical peak flow rate as
predicted by the Uniform Plumbing Code fixture criteria, between the influent
and effluent baffles with 20% of the total volume of the grease interceptor
being allowed for sludge to settle and accumulate, identified hereafter as a
“sludge pocket”;
      (2)   Remove any accumulated grease cap and sludge pocket as required,
but at intervals of not longer than 30 days at the user’s expense. Grease
interceptors shall be kept free of inorganic solid materials such as grit,
rocks, gravel, sand, eating utensils, cigarettes, shells, towels, rags and the
like, which could settle into this pocket and thereby reduce the effective
volume of the grease interceptor;
      (3)   Accept the following conditions: if any skimmed or pumped wastes or
other materials removed from grease interceptor are treated in any fashion
onsite and reintroduced back into the grease interceptor as an activity of and
after said onsite treatment, the user shall be responsible for the attainment
of established grease numerical limit consistent with and contained in division
(A) above on all discharges of wastewater from said grease interceptor into the
town sanitary sewer collection and treatment system;
      (4)   The user is required to ensure that all waste material removed from
grease traps and interceptors are disposed of in a manner that complies with
all federal, state and local statutes, rules regulations, policies and
ordinances;
      (5)   The user shall maintain a written record of trap maintenance for
three years. All such records will be available for inspection by the town at
all times;
      (6)   Operate the grease interceptor in a manner so as to maintain said
device such that attainment of the grease limit is consistently achieved.
CONSISTENT shall mean any wastewater sample taken from said grease interceptor
shall be subject to terms of numerical limit attainment described in division
(A) above. If an establishment desires, because of documented space
constraints, an alternate to an out-of-building grease interceptor, the request
for an alternative location shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Location of town sewer main and easement in relation to
available exterior space outside building; and
         (b)   Existing plumbing at or in a site that uses common plumbing for
all services at that site.
      (7)   Understand and agree that: the use of biological additives as a
grease degradation agent is conditionally permissible, upon prior written
approval by the Director. Any establishment using this method of grease
abatement shall maintain the trap or interceptor in such a manner that
attainment of the grease wastewater discharge limit, as measured from the
trap’s outlet, is consistently achieved;
      (8)   Understand and agree that: the use of automatic grease removal
systems is conditionally permissible, upon prior written approval by the
Director of Public Works/Wastewater Superintendent, of the town. Any
establishment using this equipment shall operate the system in such a manner
that attainment of the grease wastewater discharge limit, as measured from the
unit’s outlet, is consistently achieved;
      (9)   Understand and agree that: the Director of Public Works/Wastewater
Superintendent reserves the right to make determinations of grease interceptor
adequacy and need, based on review of all relevant information regarding grease
interceptor performance, facility site and building plan review and to require
repairs to or modification or replacement of such traps;
      (10)   Upon the prior written approval of the Public Work Director, non-
cooking establishments may be exempted from the requirements of this subchapter
after an inspection of the subject premises and submission of adequate
supporting documentation, as deemed necessary in the sole and absolute
discretion of the Public Works Director. At a minimum, such supporting
documentation shall include: blue prints at the subject premises; and a full
and detailed list of all potential sources of grease at the subject premises;
      (11)   Grease traps and interceptors may also be required in other
facilities, as deemed necessary by the town’s Public Works Director. Impact and
such overflow, spill, leak or other event may be attributed in part or in whole
to a particular user, then the town will seek enforcement action under the
sewer use ordinance, and/or the pretreatment enforcement plan. For purposes of
this section and overflow, spill, leak or other event shall be deemed to have
an environmental impact when such overflow or other event in voices an amount
of wastewater equal to or in excess of 1,000 gallons, or any amount of
wastewater reaches any body of surface water;
      (12)   No non-grease laden sources are allowed to be connected sewer
lines intended for grease interceptor service;
      (13)   Users shall supply an adequate sampling point down stream of
grease trap or interceptor, prior to mixing with other sanitary flows, and an
accessible entry into each chamber of the grease trap or interceptor. The
minimum requirement for the sampling point shall be a four-inch vertical clean
out;
      (14)   Access manholes, with a minimum diameter of 24 inches, shall be
provided over each chamber and sanitary tee. The access manholes shall extend
at least to finished grade and be designed and maintained to prevent water
inflow or infiltration. The manholes shall also have readily removable covers
to facilitate inspection, grease removal and wastewater sampling activities.
All manhole construction shall conform to the town’s specifications; and
      (15)   Users shall empty and service grease traps and interceptors to
comply with the performance criteria in division (C)(1) above as often as
necessary, but in any event no longer than every 30 days. Under the counter
types of grease traps and interceptors shall be cleaned at least daily, and
shall comply with the performance criteria in this section. There shall be no
reintroduction of wastewater back into the grease trap or interceptor unless
and until reintroduction of wastewater back into the grease trap or interceptor
unless and until said wastewater has been proven to contain 325 mg/l or less of
grease. Under no circumstances shall the sludge or scum layer be reintroduced
or discharged into the town’s wastewater collection system or POTW.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2005)
§ 50.43  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   No later than one year after adoption of this subchapter, all users
shall install grease traps or interceptors designed to limit the introduction,
contribution and discharge of greases into the town’s wastewater collection
system, or POTW. Grease traps and interceptors with appropriate sampling or
inspection points shall be installed at the user’s expense whenever any user
operates a commercial establishment, industrial establishment or a cooking
establishment or when required by the Director of Public Works. Grease traps
and interceptors must have a minimum capacity of 1,000 gallons or more as
required to effect a grease concentration maximum of 325 mg/l.
   (B)   Except as provided herein, for a period of one year following adoption
of this chapter (7-11-2005), although installation of grease interceptors will
be required to be installed, no enforcement actions will be taken under this
subchapter for failure to achieve limits on grease discharges from grease
interceptors.
   (C)   If an obstruction of a town sewer main(s) occurs that causes a sewer
overflow to the extent that an impact on the environment is realized and that
said overflow or failure of the sanitary sewer collection system to convey
sewage can be attributed in part or in whole to an accumulation of grease in
the town’s sewer main(s), the town will take appropriate enforcement actions,
as stipulated in the town’s ordinance, against the generator or contributor of
such grease.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2005)
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
other specific penalty has been provided shall be subject to the penalties
described in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of §§
50.40 through
50.43 of this chapter (the Fats, Oil and Grease Control Ordinance) shall be
subject to a civil penalty not to exceed $1,000 per day, plus costs outlined in
the Fats, Oil and Grease (FOG) Enforcement Matrix.
         (a)   A citation for said civil penalty shall be issued by the Police
Department.
         (b)   Each citation for a civil penalty must be paid within a
specified number of days after issuance.
         (c)   Each and every day that the violation continues in violation of
any provision of §§
50.40 through
50.43 of this chapter shall be a separate and distinct offense.
      (2)   In addition to the Enforcement Matrix, the violator shall be
responsible for the reimbursement to the town of all expenses that the town
incurs due to the violation. These expenses include, but are not limited to,
equipment cost, material cost, labor cost, for site remediation and cost
recovery of a sanitary sewer overflow.
      (3)   The violator of shall also be responsible for all costs associated
with a public or private penalty against the town due to any violation.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2005)
CHAPTER 51:  WATER; CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Interfering with water system unlawful
Cross-Connection Control
   
51.15   Purpose and objectives
   
51.16   Responsibilities
   
51.17   Definitions
   
51.18   Compliance with federal and state law
   
51.19   Unlawful connections
   
51.20   Inspection of property
   
51.21   Right of access
   
51.22   Existing conditions
   
51.23   Hazardous uses
   
51.24   Other connections
   
51.25   Installation of containment devices
   
51.26   New construction
   
51.27   Notification of consumer
   
51.28   Change in nature of use
   
51.29   Consumer responsibilities
   
51.30   Testing and maintenance of devices
   
51.31   Limitation of liability
   
51.32   Effective date
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01  INTERFERING WITH WATER SYSTEM UNLAWFUL.
   No unauthorized person shall interfere or intervene with, intrude upon,
manipulate, alter, damage or in any way obstruct the proper functioning of
water meters, pumps, wells or any part of the water system of the town.
(Ord. eff. 12-7-1970)  Penalty, see §
51.99
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
§ 51.15  PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to define the authority of the
Public Works Department of the town as the water purveyor in the elimination of
all cross-connections within its potable water supply.
   (B)   This subchapter shall apply to all users connected to the public works
public potable water supply regardless of whether the user is located within
the city limits or outside the city limits.
   (C)   This subchapter will comply with the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act 
(Pub. Law No. 93-523) being 42 U.S.C. §§ 300f et seq. and the state’s Building
Code (Volume II), as they pertain to cross- connections with the public water
supply.
   (D)   The specific objectives of this cross- connection control subchapter
for the Public Works Department of the town are as follows:
      (1)   To protect the public potable water supply of the town against
actual or potential contamination by isolating within the consumer’s water
system, contaminants or pollutants which would, under adverse conditions,
backflow through uncontrolled cross-connections in to the public water system;
      (2)   To eliminate or control existing cross- connections, actual or
potential, between the consumer’s potable water system and non-potable or
industrial piping systems; and
      (3)   To provide a continuing inspection program of cross-connection
control which will systematically and effectively control all actual or
potential cross-connections which may be installed in the future.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2004)
§ 51.16  RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Health agency.
      (1)   The state’s Department of Environment Health and Natural Resources
(Division of Health Services) has the responsibility for promulgating and
enforcing laws, rules, regulations and policies to be followed in carrying out
an effective cross-connection control program.
      (2)   The state’s Division of Health Services also has the primary
responsibilities of ensuring that the water purveyor operates the public
potable water system free of actual or potential sanitary hazards, including
unprotected cross-connections. They have the further responsibility of ensuring
that the water purveyor provides an approved water supply at the service
connection to the consumer’s water system; and, further that, he or she
requires the installation, testing and maintenance of an approved backflow
prevention assembly on the service connection when required.
   (B)   Water purveyor. Except as otherwise provided herein, the water
purveyors (Public Works) responsibility to ensure a safe water supply begins at
the source and includes all of the public water distribution system, including
the service connection, and ends at the point of delivery to the consumers
water system(s). In addition, the water purveyor shall exercise reasonable
vigilance to ensure that the consumer has taken the proper steps to protect the
public potable water system. To ensure that the proper precautions are taken,
the Public Works Department is required: to determine the degree of hazard or
potential hazard to the public potable water system; to determine the degree of
protection required; and to ensure proper containment protection through an on-
going inspection program.
   (C)   Plumbing Inspections.
      (1)   The Plumbing Inspection Department of the county has the
responsibility to not only review building plans and inspect plumbing as it is
installed; but, it has the explicit responsibility of preventing cross-
connections from being designed and built into the plumbing systems within its
jurisdiction where the review of building plans suggests or detects the
potential for cross-connections being made an integral part of the plumbing
system, the Plumbing Inspector has the responsibility, under the state’s
Building Code, for requiring that such cross-connections be either eliminated
or provided with backflow prevention equipment approved by the state’s Building
Code.
      (2)   The Plumbing Inspector’s responsibility begins at the point of
delivery and continues throughout the entire length of the consumer’s water
system. The Plan Inspector should inquire about the intended use of water at
any point where one is actually called for by the plans. When such is
discovered it shall be mandatory that a suitable, approved backflow prevention
assembly approved by the state’s Building Code be required by the plans and be
properly installed. The primary protection assembly for containment purposes
only shall have approval from the Public Works Department, the state’s Building
Code and the state’s Department of Environment Health and Natural Resources.
   (D)   Consumer. The consumer has the primary responsibility of preventing
pollutants and contaminants from entering his or her potable water system(s) or
the public potable water system. The consumer’s responsibility starts at the
point of delivery from the public potable water system and includes all of his
or her water system(s). The consumer, at his or her own expense, shall install,
operate, test and maintain approved backflow prevention assemblies as directed
by the Public Works Department. The consumer shall maintain accurate records of
tests and repairs made to backflow prevention assemblies and shall maintain
such records for a minimum period of three years. The records shall be on forms
approved by the Public Works Department and shall include the list of materials
or replacement parts used. Following any repair, overhaul, re-piping or
relocation of an assembly, the consumer shall have it tested to ensure that it
is in good operating condition and will prevent backflow. Tests, maintenance
and repairs of backflow prevention assemblies shall be made by a certified
backflow prevention assembly tester.
   (E)   Certified backflow prevention assembly tester.
      (1)   When employed by the consumer to test, repair, overhaul or maintain
backflow prevention assemblies, a backflow prevention assembly tester will have
the following responsibilities: the tester will be responsible for making
competent inspections and for repairing or overhauling backflow prevention
assemblies and making competent inspections and for repairing or overhauling
backflow prevention assemblies and making reports of such repair to the
consumer and responsible authorities on forms provided and approved by the
Public Works Department.
      (2)   The tester shall include the list of materials or replacement parts
used. The tester shall be equipped with and be competent to use all necessary
tools, gauges or other equipment necessary to properly test, repair and
maintain backflow prevention assemblies. It will be the tester’s further
responsibility not to change the design, material or operational
characteristics of an assembly. A certified tester shall perform the work and
be responsible for the competency and accuracy of all tests and reports.
      (3)   A tester shall provide a copy of all test and repair report to the
consumer and to the Public Works Department within ten business days of any
completed test or repair work. A tester shall maintain such records for a
minimum of three years.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2004)
§ 51.17  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR-GAP SEPARATION. An unobstructed vertical distance through the atmosphere
between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank,
plumbing fixture or other device and the flood level rim of the receptacle. An
approved AIR-GAP VERTICAL SEPARATION shall be at least double the diameter of
the supply pipe. In no case shall the AIR-GAP be less than one inch.
   APPROVED. Certified in writing by the town or their designee as an
acceptable device or methodology for the purpose of backflow prevention.
   AUXILIARY INTAKE. Any piping connection or other device whereby water may be
secured from a source other than public water supply.
   BACKFLOW. Any flow of water into the public water supply from any other
source due to a cross- connection, auxiliary intake, interconnection,
backpressure, back-siphonage, any combination thereof or other cause.
   BACKPRESSURE. Any pressure on any source of water other than the public
water supply that may be greater than the pressure on the public water supply
and may result in a backflow.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. An approved effective device method used to
prevent backflow from occurring in the potable water supply. The type of device
required shall be based on degree of hazard, existing or potential.
   BACK-SIPHONAGE. Any circumstance in which the pressure on the public water
supply may be reduced to the point that the elevation and atmospheric pressure
on a source of water other than the public water supply may result in a
pressure to be greater than the pressure on the public water supply and may
result in a back flow.
   CERTIFIED TESTER. A person who has proven his or her competency to test,
repair, overhaul and make reports on backflow prevention devices as evidenced
by certification of successful completion of a training program approved by the
town or its designee.
   CONFINEMENT DEVICE. A backflow prevention device, as approved and required,
installed within a private plumbing or distribution system to isolate a
localized hazard from the remainder of said system.
   CONSUMER. Any person, firm or corporation responsible for any property at
which water from the town public water supply is received. In the absence of
other parties or the failure of other parties to accept the responsibilities
herein set forth, the owner of record shall be ultimately responsible. A
backflow prevention device as approved installed at the point of separation
between the public water supply and a private service or private distribution
system or at the point of metering.
   CONTAMINATION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality as to
constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   CONTAINMENT DEVICE. A backflow prevention device, as approved and required,
installed at the point of separation between the public water supply and a
private service or private distribution system or at the point of metering.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection whereby the public water supply is
connected with any other water supply system, whether public or private, either
inside or outside of any building or buildings, in such a manner that a flow of
water into the public water supply is possible either through the manipulation
of valves or because of ineffective check or backpressure valves, or because of
any other arrangement.
   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL COORDINATOR. The official position established and
authorized by the town designated by the town or their designee to administer,
interpret this section and who shall be a certified tester.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. An approved assembly composed
of two single, spring-loaded independently operating check valves, including
tightly-closing shut- off valves located at each end of the assembly and having
suitable connections for testing the water- tightness of each check valve.
   DUAL CHECK VALVE. An approved device containing two independently acting
check valves in series.
   FIRE LINE. A system of pipes and equipment used to supply water in an
emergency for extinguishing fire.
   INTERCONNECTION. Any system of piping or other arrangement whereby the
public water supply is connected directly with a sewer, drain, conduit, pool,
heat exchanger, storage reservoir or other device which does or may contain
sewage or other waste or substance which would be capable of imparting
contamination to the public water supply.
   PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER. An approved assembly containing an independently
operating spring loaded check valve and an independently operating loaded air
inlet valve located on the discharge side of the check valve. The assembly must
be equipped with suitable connections for testing the proper operation of the
device and tightly-closing shut-off valves located at each end of the assembly.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. The water and waterworks system of the town and its
customers outside the town limits, for general use and which supply is
recognized as the public water supply by the state’s Department of
Environmental Health and Natural Resources.
   REDUCED PRESSURE ZONE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE (RPZ). An
approved device containing within its structure, two spring loaded
independently operating check valves, together with an automatically operating
pressure differential relief valve located between the two check valves. The
first check valve reduces the supply pressure a predetermined amount so that
during normal flow and at cessation of normal flow the pressure between the
checks shall be less than the supply pressures. In case of leakage of either
check valve, the differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere,
shall operate to maintain the pressure between the check valves less than the
supply pressure. This device shall have suitable connections for testing the
proper operation of the device, including tightly-closing shut-off valves
located at each end of the device.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2004)
§ 51.18  COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL AND STATE LAW.
   The town will comply with the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act being 42
U.S.C. §§ 300f et seq., the state’s Drinking Water Act being G.S. §§ 130A-313
et seq. and the state’s Building Code, which pertain to cross-connections,
auxiliary intakes and interconnections, and establish an effective ongoing
program to control potential sources of contamination of the public water
supply.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2004)
§ 51.19  UNLAWFUL CONNECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause a cross-connection, auxiliary
intake or inter-connection to be made; or allow one to exist for any purpose
whatsoever.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2004)
§ 51.20  INSPECTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be the duty, upon request of the town or its designee, of the
Cross-Connection Coordinator to cause inspections to be made of properties
served by the public water supply where cross-connections with the public water
supply are deemed possible. The frequency of inspections and reinspections
shall be set by the ORC cross-connection backflow.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2004)
§ 51.21  RIGHT OF ACCESS.
   (A)   The town or its designee, or authorized representative, shall have the
right to enter, at reasonable time, any non-residential property served by a
connection to the town public water supply for the purpose of performing the
duties of this subchapter.
   (B)   In those cases in which the property owner chooses not to provide such
access, the town or its designee, or authorized representative, may designate
the location as a high hazard in accordance with §
51.23 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2004)
§ 51.22  EXISTING CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Any consumer shall be allowed 90 days to correct any cross-
connections, auxiliary intakes, inter- connections or other hazard as defined
by §
51.23 of this chapter in violation of the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The 90 days will be from the date of receipt of the notification given
by the Cross-Connection Coordinator.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2004)
§ 51.23  HAZARDOUS USES.
   (A)   The following uses shall be classified as hazardous uses:
      (1)   Hazardous uses include, but are not limited to: pumps and tanks
handling sewage, radioactive, lethal or toxic substances, boiler and steam
connections, sewer waste lines, low inlets to receptacles containing toxic
substances, coils or jackets used as heat exchangers, flush valve toilets
without vacuum breaks, bacterial and viral materials, private wells or other
private water supply, irrigation systems, water systems or hose connections,
with booster pumps, carbonation equipment or similar hazard potential as
determined by the Cross- Connection Coordinator;
      (2)   Any location at which the nature or mode of operations within a
premises are such that frequent alterations are made to the plumbing or at
which there is a likelihood in the determination of the Cross-Connection
Coordinator that protective measures may be subverted, altered or disconnected;
and
      (3)   Any facility which contains, but is not limited to, a bottling
plant, cannery, building have five or more stories, battery manufacturer,
exterminator, greenhouse, chemical processing plant, dairy, dye works, film
laboratory, car wash, hospital, commercial laboratory, laundry, metal
fabricating operations, mortuary, swimming pool, morgue, x-ray equipment,
medical office with laboratory, aspirator, medical washing equipment, packing
house, plating plant, poultry house, power plant, nuclear reactor, those fire
sprinkler systems equipped with facilities for introduction of freeze
preventive chemicals or other substances other than water, dental office, any
radioactive material, restaurant, shopping mall with tenant conducting any
activity listed in this section and sewage pump or treatment facilities.
   (B)   All installations described in this subchapter shall be deemed
hazardous uses, and must have a containment device in the form of a reduced
pressure zone backflow prevention device; provided that, if the consumer
demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Cross-Connection Coordinator that
sufficient internal confinement devices have been installed and tested. The
Cross-Connection Coordinator may require that the consumer provide engineering
drawings sealed by a professional engineer of installations within the
premises, which provide complete internal protection against cross-connection
as approved by the Cross- Connection Coordinator. Any such connection shall be
considered an other connection for determining the type of containment device
required. Each internal confinement device shall be one of the following, as
approved by the Public Works Director or his or her designee or his or her
authorized representative: reduced pressure zone principle backflow prevention
device, double check valve backflow prevention device, air gap, vacuum break-
pressure type or dual check valve. Each reduced pressure zone principal
backflow prevention device serving as an internal confinement device shall have
a mesh strainer immediately upstream of the inlet gate valve.
   (C)   No person shall fill any tanks or tankers which include the following:
those containing pesticides, fertilizers, other toxic chemicals or residues;
flush trucks; street sweepers; and non- potable water tankers from a public
water system, except with an approved air gap fill or an approved reduced
pressure backflow preventor properly installed on the tank or tanker or on the
public water supply fill pipeline or hose.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2004)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.24  OTHER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Services to single-family residential units, not otherwise required by
this subchapter to have other containment devices, may have a containment
device in the form of an approved dual check valve on all such services which
meters are applied more than 90 days following the date of adoption of this
subchapter, said dual check valves or other containment devices as required
shall be installed by the owner’s representative prior to the installation of
the meter by the Department of Public Utilities. On all such services for which
meters have been applied prior to that date, said dual check valve shall be
installed by the Department of Public Utilities; provided that, the town
reserves the right to charge the owner or occupant of any residence for the
cost of said device and its installation. Maintenance of dual check valve
containment devices installed in accordance with this section shall be
conducted by the Department of Public Utilities. Testable containment devices
that are required on lawn irrigation water systems and must be tested every
three years by a contractor that has been approved by the town.
   (B)   All other connections to the public water supply of the town shall
have containment devices in the form of a double check valve backflow
prevention device as set forth in this section. This shall include water mains
installed to town standards, and with town supervision, but which are not
maintained by the town, including, but not limited to, manufactured home parks,
apartments, group housing projects and other private distribution systems, or
similar hazard potential as determined by the town or its designee, or his or
her authorized representative. Private distribution systems shall be configured
so as to provide looped mains, with two or more containment devices on each
building water service connection and at dead-end branch mains.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2004)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.25  INSTALLATION OF CONTAINMENT DEVICES.
   (A)   The containment devices shall be located off street right-of-way on
the water main side of any plumbing connections. When installed in a building,
the device shall be located on the service line immediately after its entrance
into the building. Each containment and confinement device shall be installed
in a location that is physically accessible for inspection and testing as
determined by the Cross-Connection Coordinator. Containment devices, which have
been buried in the ground, do not satisfy the provisions of this code. Each
reduced pressure principle zone device shall be installed such that flooding of
the device is unlikely as determined by the Cross-Connection Coordinator.
   (B)   The town or its designee shall maintain a list of approved
manufacturers and models of hazard containment devices and drawings standard
installation, copies to be made available through the office of the Director of
Public Utilities and the Chief Inspector’s office. All reduced pressure zone
principle backflow prevention devices and double check valve backflow
prevention devices shall be approved by the Foundation for Cross-Connection
Control and Hydraulic Research. All vacuum breaks and dual check valve devices
shall be approved by the American Society for Sanitary Engineers. All
installations and materials shall conform to town standards as set by the town
or its designee.
   (C)   In those cases in which containment and/or confinement devices have
been previously installed by prior owners, the town or other parties, the
responsibility for maintenance, testing and replacement as applicable shall be
with the consumer.
   (D)   The cost of said means of containment, and any other plumbing
modifications necessary and convenient thereto, and the testing and maintenance
thereof is to be paid for by the consumer.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2004)
§ 51.26  NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   All buildings, proposing to connect to the public water system of the town
receiving building permits, on or after the effective date of this subchapter,
shall be equipped with an approved and tested as properly functioning backflow
prevention device, as prescribed herein, prior to the issuance of a certificate
of code compliance for that building. If a building permit was issued for the
building prior to the effective date of this subchapter, or a building permit
was not required, the building shall be considered to be an existing building
prior to the effective date, in accordance with §
51.22 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2004)
§ 51.27  NOTIFICATION OF CONSUMER.
   (A)   Upon identification of a hazard, or hazard potential, as defined in §§
51.23 and
51.24 of this chapter, the Cross-Connection Coordinator shall notify the
consumer of record of the property on which the hazard exists of the following:
      (1)   Location of hazard;
      (2)   Nature of hazard observed;
      (3)   Date hazard observed;
      (4)   Section of code applicable; and
      (5)   Requirements of code.
   (B)   Such notification shall be made by certified mail, with return receipt
requested.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2004)
§ 51.28  CHANGE IN NATURE OF USE.
   The town or its designee shall be notified by the consumer if the nature of
use of the property changes so as to change the hazard classification of that
property, as set forth in §§
51.23 and
51.24 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2004)
§ 51.29  CONSUMER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The consumer shall, upon notification as defined in §
51.27 of this chapter, install the hazard containment device(s) as required
within 90 days from the date of notification.
   (B)   If, after expiration of 90 days, the containment device(s) has not
been installed in conformance with standards set by the town or its designee,
in a proper working condition, the town or its designee may discontinue the
public water supply service at that premises, and service shall not be restored
until such devices have been installed. The town or its designee may permit an
extension of up to 90 additional days if compliance efforts are underway and
the existence of hardship can be demonstrated.
   (C)   The town shall bear no liability for direct or consequential damages
proximately caused by the discontinuance of service pursuant to this section.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2004)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.30  TESTING AND MAINTENANCE OF DEVICES.
   The consumer at each property at which containment and/or confinement device
(s) have been installed, except those with devices installed in accordance with
§
51.24(A) of this chapter, shall have each containment and/or confinement device
(s) tested on an annual basis, and perform any routine maintenance to such
device as recommended by the manufacturer, and provide the Cross-Connection
Coordinator with a report of that inspection and work. The consumer shall cause
such maintenance, or repairs to be made, rendering the device fully
operational. Failure of the consumer to perform that testing and maintenance
shall be cause for the premises to be deemed an immediate public health hazard.
The town or its designee may immediately thereafter discontinue public water
supply service to that premises and service shall not be restored until such
services have been rendered operational. Where the use of water is critical to
the continuance of normal operations or protection of life, property or
equipment, duplicated containment or confinement devices shall be provided by
the property owner to avoid the necessity of discontinuing water service to
test or repair the device or devices.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2004)
§ 51.31  LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   The town shall not be held liable, for any cause, for failure to detect any
unit failing to operate adequately, or failure to identify any specific hazard,
which may result in contamination of its public water supply, nor shall this
subchapter diminish the responsibility of any property owner from whose
property a contamination of the public water supply may originate.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2004)
§ 51.32  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effective on 9-14-2004.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2004)
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   General. Violation of any provision of §§
51.15 through
51.32 of this chapter may subject the offender to a civil penalty to be
recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender
does not pay the penalty within 30 days after the assessment has become final
by exhaustion of the appeal process established by §§
51.15 through
51.32 of this chapter, or by failure to appeal the assessment. The civil
penalty for violation of any provision of §§
51.15 through
51.32 of this chapter shall not exceed $500 per day for each day of continuous
violation, or a cumulative or single civil penalty of $10,000. The civil
penalty for willful violation of any provision of §§
51.15 through
51.32 of this chapter shall not exceed $1,000 per day for each day of a
continuous violation, or a cumulative or single civil penalty of $20,000.
      (2)   Assessment. Any civil penalty shall be assessed by the Town
Manager, upon the recommendation of the town or its designee, and shall be
based upon the reasonable estimated cost of correcting the cited violation, the
magnitude of the potential risk posed to the public health, safety and welfare
by the violation, and the cost of the public safety or other emergency response
caused by the violation. The Town Manager shall serve written notice of the
civil penalty assessment an the offender and set out with reasonable care the
basis of the amount so assessed.
      (3)   Equitable relief. An appropriate equitable remedy, including a
mandatory or prohibitory injunction, issuing from a court of competent
jurisdiction may endorse the provisions of §§
51.15 through
51.32 of this chapter.
      (4)   Enforcement option. The penalties and enforcement provisions
established by this division (B) may be applied in additional to or instead of
the penalties established by other sections of this code.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2004)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   General speed limit; unposted roads
   
70.02   General rules; restricted travel
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01  GENERAL SPEED LIMIT; UNPOSTED ROADS.
   (A)   All municipal streets in the town that do not have a posted speed
limit shall be 25 mph.
   (B)   This section was in full force and effect as of 6-30-2018.
(Ord. passed 6-4-2018; Ord. passed 8-6-2018)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02  GENERAL RULES; RESTRICTED TRAVEL.
   Church Street shall be designated as a “No Thru Truck Traffic” street.
(Ord. passed 6-4-2018; Ord. passed 8-6-2018)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this traffic code to the operation or parking of vehicles, or failing or
neglecting or refusing to comply with same, shall upon admission or
adjudication, be responsible for an infraction, and shall be required to pay a
penalty of not more than $50, as provided by G.S. § 14-4(b).
   (B)   In addition to the penalty for the violation of this traffic code, any
vehicle improperly parked in violation of this code may be towed (G.S. §§ 20-
37.6(f) and 20-161(d)). Removal and disposition shall be conducted in the
manner prescribed by G.S. § 160A-303.
(Ord. passed 6-4-2018; Ord. passed 8-6-2018)
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
Street Location Speed Limit
Street              Location                                   Speed Limit
Agriculture Drive   Fairgrounds Drive to N.C. 11               25 mph
Beasley Street      Main Street to Kilpatrick Street           25 mph
Bostic Street       Main Street to dead end                    25 mph
Bowden Drive        Seminary to Grove Circle                   25 mph
Bryan Street        Beasley Street to Hill Street              25 mph
Canal Street        Routledge Road to Page Street              25 mph
Church Street       Magnolia Street extension to Cooper Street 25 mph
Circle Drive        Entire Street                              25 mph
Cooper Street       Church Street to Seminary Street           25 mph
Courthouse Place    Front Street to Hill Street                15 mph
David Street        Precythe Street to David Street            25 mph
Duplin Street       Main Street to Hospital                    15 mph
E. Grove Circle     Bowden Drive to dead end                   25 mph
Fairgrounds Drive   N.C. 11 to the Events Center entrance      25 mph
Fennel Street       Church Street to dead end                  25 mph
Franklin Street     Williamson Street to Precythe Street       25 mph
Front Street        Main Street to Courthouse Place            15 mph
Hill Street         Duplin Street to Routledge Road            25 mph
John B. Hall Street Limestone Road to dead end                 25 mph
John Street         Routledge Road to Scott Street             25 mph
Kilpatrick Street   Beasley Street to Routledge Road           25 mph
Lee Street          Limestone Road to dead end                 25 mph
Lodge Street        Main Street to Seminary Street             25 mph
Middleton Street    Seminary Street to dead end                25 mph
Moore Street        Church Street to Mallard Street            25 mph
Old Warsaw Road     Magnolia Street extension to dead end      15 mph
Page Street         Routledge Road to dead end                 25 mph
Park Circle         Entire Street                              15 mph
Peachtree Street    Stephen Street to Stroud Street            25 mph
Precythe Street     Limestone Road to David Street             25 mph
Scott Street        John Street to dead end                    25 mph
Seminary Street     Duplin Street to Church Street             25 mph
Shady Grove Lane    Grove Circle to dead end                   25 mph
South Street        Main Street to Front Street                15 mph
Sprunt Street       Seminary Street to dead end                25 mph
Stephen Street      Franklin Street to Peachtree Street        25 mph
Stokes Street       Main Street to dead end                    15 mph
Stroud Street       Peachtree Street to Page Street            25 mph
Sycamore Street     Seminary Street to dead end                25 mph
W. Grove Circle     Bowden Drive to dead end                   25 mph
Williams Street     Beasley Street to Routledge Road           25 mph
Williamson Street   Limestone Road to Peachtree Street         25 mph
 
(Ord. passed 6-4-2018; Ord. passed 8-6-2018)  Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No parking zones
      
II.   Restricted parking zones
      
III.   Loading zones
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   The following areas, as identified in this schedule, are designated as
no parking zones.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park in designated driveways.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to park in areas not designated for parking, as
defined in this schedule.
   (D)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to improperly park in designated parking
areas.
      (2)   A vehicle is improperly parked if it is parked along a yellow curb,
fire lane, hatched area, loading zones, restricted zone or not completely in a
parking stall.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for vehicles without a handicap placard or
license plates as set forth in G.S. § 20-37.5(2) to park in spaces not
designated for handicap parking, as defined in Schd. II of this chapter.
Street/Location Side Location
Street/        Side         Location
Location
Beasley Street South        From Main Street for a distance of 500 feet on
                            south side
Cooper Street  Both         From Main Street all the way to Church Street
Hill Street    Both         From Duplin Street to Main Street
Limestone Road Both         Main Street to town limits
Main Street    Both         To Mallard Street to where the turning lane ends
Mallard Street Both         From Main Street to town limits
Seminary       Both         From Cooper Street to Jimmy Jackson’s residential
Street                      driveway
               Health
               Department   From Cooper Street to dead end
Sprunt Street  side
               Windham Mall From Cooper Street to dead end
               side
 
(Ord. passed 6-4-2018; Ord. passed 8-6-2018)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. RESTRICTED PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   Handicapped parking spaces.
      (1)   HANDICAPPED shall be defined as set forth in G.S. § 20-37.5(2), as
that provision hereafter may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave standing any
vehicle in a space designated for handicapped of visually impaired persons when
the vehicle does not display the distinguishing license plate or placard as
provided by law.
      (3)   In addition to the penalty for the violation of this division (A),
any vehicle improperly parked in violation of this division (A) may be towed
(G.S. §§ 20-37.6(f) and G.S. 20-161(d)). Removal and disposition shall be
conducted in the manner prescribed by G.S. § 160A-303.
      (4)   The following spaces are to be properly identified as being
reserved for handicapped persons.
 
Street        Side Location
              West Magistrate’s office (1 space at east entrance street
Duplin Street      parking)
              East Courthouse (4 spaces at west entrance street parking)
 
   (B)   Parking spaces for emergency and law enforcement vehicles.
 
Street        Side Location
              West Magistrate’s office (3 spaces for Magistrate and law
Duplin Street      enforcement)
              West County jail (2 spaces at the intersection of W. Hill Street)
 
(Ord. passed 6-4-2018; Ord. passed 8-6-2018)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. LOADING ZONES.
 
Street           Side  Location
Courthouse Plaza West  West side of street adjacent to parking on east side of
                       the Courthouse
                       From intersection of Duplin Street for a distance of 45
Seminary Street  South feet westwardly across from west entrance of the
                       Courthouse
 
(Ord. passed 6-4-2018; Ord. passed 8-6-2018)
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
92.   ABANDONED AND JUNKED VEHICLES
      
93.   FAIR HOUSING
      
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
95.   DONATION BINS
      
96.   FALSE ALARMS
      
97.   PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES AND PARADES
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Section
Livestock
   
90.01   Keeping livestock prohibited
   
90.02   Miniature and pot bellied pigs; permits; restrictions
   
90.03   Compliance required; effective date
 
   
90.99   Penalty
LIVESTOCK
§ 90.01  KEEPING LIVESTOCK PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to keep or maintain any cow, horse, pony, mule,
chicken, hog, sheep, goat or other livestock on any lot or within any pen,
stable or other enclosure or building within the corporate limits. This
prohibition shall not apply to that certain location referred to as “Duplin
Commons”, nor to any locations owned by the town.
(Ord. passed 9-14-1998; Ord. passed 10-3-2016)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02  MINIATURE AND POT BELLIED PIGS; PERMITS; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The keeping and raising of registered pure bred miniature
Vietnamese Pot Bellied Pigs (sus scrofa bittatus) and other similar registered
pure bred miniature pigs as household pets shall be allowed in all residential
districts, subject to the limitations placed thereon by the following
provisions of this section.
      (2)   REGISTERED means registered with a nationally recognized Miniature
Pig Association.
   (B)   Miniature pigs, as defined by division (A) above, shall not exceed a
weight of 100 pounds; only one miniature pig shall be kept in any household;
and the pig shall be kept in a restrained area at all times and shall not be
permitted to run at large. No miniature pig shall be allowed outside of the
premises of its owner, except on a leash or duly restrained in a vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   The breeding and raising of miniature pigs shall not be allowed
within the town.
      (2)   Permitted pigs shall be neutered or spayed, or when any such pig
shall give birth to piglets, the mother pig and all piglets shall be
immediately removed from the town for weaning and raising.
   (D)   (1)   Any person wishing to keep and maintain a miniature pig within
the town shall fill out and present an application form to the Town Clerk
stating the applicant’s name and address, the location where the miniature pig
will be kept and the registration information on the pig.
      (2)   The application form shall be accompanied by a registration fee of
$25 payable to the town.
      (3)   The name, address and location of all owners of miniature pigs
shall be kept on file by the Town Clerk at all times.
(Ord. passed 9-14-1998)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03  COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Persons keeping or maintaining within the corporate limits any animals named
in §
90.01 of this chapter, or more than one pot bellied pig as allowed in §
90.02 of this chapter, shall remove them from the corporate limits in order to
comply with this subchapter not later than 30 days from the effective date of
this subchapter, which was 10-24-1998.
(Ord. passed 9-14-1998)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
other specific penalty has been provided shall be subject to the penalties
described in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   All persons not complying with §
90.03 of this chapter by 10-24-1998 will be penalized $100 per day for non-
compliance.
(Ord. passed 9-14-1998)
CHAPTER 91:  HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Noise
   
91.01   Unreasonable noise prohibited
   
91.02   Specific prohibited noises
   
91.03   Exemptions
   
91.04   Effective date
Weeds and Grass; Accumulation of Refuse
   
91.15   Conditions constituting nuisance
   
91.16   Investigation; notice; order to abate
   
91.17   Abatement by town
   
91.18   Costs to be paid by owner; charges a lien on premises
   
91.19   Other remedies
NOISE
§ 91.01  UNREASONABLE NOISE PROHIBITED.
   The creation of any unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise in
the town is prohibited. Noise of such character, intensity and duration as to
be detrimental to the life or health of any individual is prohibited.
(Ord. passed 8-1-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.02  SPECIFIC PROHIBITED NOISES.
   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing and
unnecessary noises in violation of this subchapter, but this enumeration shall
not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
   (A)   Radios, phonographs, recorders and the like. The playing of any radio,
phonograph, recorders or other musical instruments in such a manner or with
such volume as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any person
in any business, dwelling or other type of residence;
   (B)   Blowing horns. The sounding of any horn or signal device on any
automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle, except as a danger signal, so as
to create any unreasonably loud or harsh sound, or the sounding of such a
device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
   (C)   Pets. The keeping of any animal or bird, which, by causing frequent or
long continued noise, shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity; and
   (D)   Use of vehicle. The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so
out of repair, so loaded or in such a manner as to create loud or unnecessary
grating, grinding, rattling or other noise.
(Ord. passed 8-1-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.03  EXEMPTIONS.
   Any function sanctioned by the Town Board, such as athletic events, outdoor
dramas, street dances, circuses and carnivals, should be exempt from this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 8-1-1994)
§ 91.04  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force 30 days after its publication in a
newspaper having general circulation in the town.
(Ord. passed 8-1-1994)
WEEDS AND GRASS; ACCUMULATION
OF REFUSE
§ 91.15  CONDITIONS CONSTITUTING NUISANCE.
   The existence of any of the following conditions on any vacant lot or other
parcel of land within the corporate limits is hereby declared to be dangerous
and prejudicial to the public health or safety and to constitute a public
nuisance:
   (A)   The uncontrolled growth of noxious weeds or grass to a height in
excess of 24 inches causing or threatening to cause a hazard detrimental to the
public health or safety;
   (B)   Any accumulation of rubbish, trash or junk causing or threatening to
cause a fire hazard, or causing or threatening to cause the accumulation of
stagnant water, threatening to cause the inhabitation therein of rats, mice,
snakes or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the
public health;
   (C)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors or by the inhabitancy therein of rats, mice, snakes
or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health;
   (D)   The open storage of any abandoned ice box, refrigerator, stove, glass,
building material, building rubbish or similar items; and
   (E)   Any condition detrimental to the public health which violates the
rules and regulations of the county’s Health Department.
(Ord. passed 9-11-1995)
§ 91.16  INVESTIGATION; NOTICE; ORDER TO ABATE.
   (A)   The Town Clerk, upon notice from any person of the possible existence
of any of the conditions described in §
91.15 of this chapter, shall cause to be made by the appropriate town official,
such investigation as may be necessary to determine whether conditions exist
which may constitute a public nuisance as declared in §
91.15 of this chapter.
   (B)   If it appears that such conditions exist, the Town Clerk shall cause
to be delivered or mailed to the owner of the property upon which the
conditions exist a notice stating the reasons why the conditions may constitute
a violation. The owner or any party in interest shall have the right to contest
the violation within 15 days after receiving notice if he or she gives notice
to the Town Clerk that they want to appear before the Town Board at its next
regular scheduled meeting and give evidence relevant to the matter.
   (C)   If a determination is made by the Town Clerk or Town Board of
Commissioners that such conditions constituting a public nuisance exist, the
Town Clerk shall notify, in writing, the owner of the premises in question of
the conditions constituting such public nuisance and shall order the prompt
abatement thereof within 15 days from the receipt of such written notice.
(Ord. passed 9-11-1995)
§ 91.17  ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   If the owner, having been ordered to abate such a public nuisance, fails,
neglects or refuses to abate or remove the condition constituting the nuisance
within 15 days from receipt of said order, the Town Clerk shall cause said
condition to be removed or otherwise remedied by having employees of the town
or their agents to go upon said premises and remove or otherwise abate such
nuisance under the supervision of an officer or employee designated by the Town
Clerk.
(Ord. passed 9-11-1995)
§ 91.18  COSTS TO BE PAID BY OWNER; CHARGES A LIEN ON PREMISES.
   (A)   The actual cost incurred by the town in removing or otherwise
remedying a public nuisance shall be charged to the owner of such lot or parcel
of land, and it shall be the duty of the Tax Collector to mail a statement of
such charges to the owner or other person in possession of such premises with
instructions that such charges are due and payable within 30 days from the
receipt thereof.
   (B)   In the event charges for the removal or abatement of a public nuisance
are not paid within 30 days after the receipt of a statement of charges as
provided for in §
91.16(C) of this chapter, such charges shall become a lien upon the land or
premises where the public nuisance existed and shall be collected as unpaid
taxes, as provided in G.S. § 160A-193.
(Ord. passed 9-11-1995)
§ 91.19  OTHER REMEDIES.
   The procedure set forth in this subchapter shall be in addition to any other
remedies that may now or hereafter exist under law for the abatement of public
nuisances and this subchapter shall not prevent the town from proceeding in a
criminal action against any person, firm or corporation violating the
provisions of this subchapter as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 9-11-1995)
CHAPTER 92:  ABANDONED AND JUNKED VEHICLES
Section
   
92.01   Removal authority
   
92.02   Definitions; exceptions
   
92.03   Health and safety hazards
   
92.04   Unlawful acts
   
92.05   Towing and storage business; qualifications; charges
   
92.06   Lien
   
92.07   Unclaimed vehicles; notice to owner
   
92.08   Disposal of vehicles; disposition of proceeds
§ 92.01  REMOVAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Whenever any vehicle is abandoned or junked, it may be removed for
safe keeping and disposition by or under the direction of the Police
Department, as specified below, to a storage garage or area.
   (B)   Any member of the Police Department is authorized to remove or cause
to be removed any abandoned or junked vehicle, as hereinafter defined, from a
street or other public place owned or controlled by the city and to have it
removed to the designated storage garage or area.
   (C)   Any member of the Police Department is authorized to remove or cause
to be removed any abandoned or junked vehicle, as hereinafter defined, from
privately owned property or have it removed to the designated storage garage or
area. No such vehicle shall be removed without the written request of the
owner, lessee or occupant of the premises, unless the same has been declared by
the town’s Board of Commissioners to be a health or safety hazard. The person
at whose request the vehicle is removed shall indemnify the town against any
loss or expense incurred by reason of the removal, storage or sale thereof,
unless the Town Board of Commissioners or its designee determines that this
indemnity is unnecessary.
(Ord. passed 11-1-1971)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02  DEFINITIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE. A vehicle shall be deemed to have been ABANDONED in
the following circumstances:
         (a)   It has been left upon a street or highway in violation of a law
or ordinance prohibiting parking;
         (b)   It fails to display a current license plate;
         (c)   It is partially dismantled or wrecked;
         (d)   It is incapable of self-propulsion or being moved in the manner
for which it is intended;
         (e)   It is left on property owned or operated by the city for a
period of not less than 24 hours;
         (f)   It is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee for a period of not less than two hours; or
         (g)   It is left on any street or highway of the town for a period of
not less than 48 hours.
      JUNKED VEHICLE. A vehicle shall be deemed to be a JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE
whenever it is found to be an abandoned vehicle as defined above; and, in
addition, is found to be inoperable, dismantled or damaged, five years old or
older and worth less than $50.
      MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. Includes all machines designed to be self-
propelled or pulled and intended to travel along the ground by means of wheels,
treads, runners or slides.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to any vehicle in an
enclosed building or vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise being
operated in a lawful place and manner and the vehicle being necessary to the
ordinary operation of that business enterprise, or to a vehicle in an
appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful place maintained
by the town.
(Ord. passed 11-1-1971)
§ 92.03  HEALTH AND SAFETY HAZARDS.
   The following abandoned or junked vehicles are hereby declared to be health
or safety hazards:
   (A)   One which is obstructing traffic on a public way;
   (B)   One which affords depressions in which water can pool;
   (C)   One which shows evidence of being a rodent harbor;
   (D)   One which is overrun by weeds and vegetation over eight inches high;
   (E)   One in which gasoline vapors are present as evidenced by odors;
   (F)   One which has rough and rusted edges of metal;
   (G)   One which is within 50 feet of a public way or dwelling; or
   (H)   Any other vehicle specifically declared to be a health or safety
hazard by the governing body.
(Ord. passed 11-1-1971)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04  UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon or junk any vehicle within
the town, and for any person to leave or allow to remain any partially
dismantled, non-operating, junked or otherwise discarded vehicle.
(Ord. passed 11-1-1971)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05  TOWING AND STORAGE BUSINESS; QUALIFICATIONS; CHARGES.
   (A)   The Chief of Police of the town shall prepare and maintain an eligible
list of those persons, firms or corporations (hereinafter called “garages”)
having businesses in or around the town, who apply as qualified to tow and
store automobiles and trucks from the streets and other public places in the
town at the request of the Police Department.
   (B)   To qualify for the eligible list, the applicant must have available at
all times equipment in good condition capable of towing any automobile or
truck, regardless of size or weight, from the streets and other public or
private places in the town when called upon to do so.
   (C)   The applicant must agree to assume the obligation:
      (1)   To promptly tow and store all vehicles to be removed from the
public streets or other public places or private property upon request of the
Police Department;
      (2)   To issue a receipt to the Police Department for each vehicle towed;
      (3)   To remove from the scene of the motor vehicle accident, in which
the vehicle to be towed was involved, all glass, metal or debris caused by the
accident; and
      (4)   To comply with the provisions of this chapter under pain of removal
from the eligible list.
   (D)   Towing and storage charges incurred in the impounding of any vehicle
under the provisions of this chapter shall be the full responsibility of the
owner of the vehicle.
(Ord. passed 11-1-1971)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06  LIEN.
   All towing, storage, advertising and other charges incurred in connection
with the impounded vehicle shall constitute a lien upon the vehicle, and no
stored vehicle shall be released until all these charges have been paid to the
Town Clerk or to the owner of the garage where the impounded vehicle is stored.
(Ord. passed 11-1-1971)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.07  UNCLAIMED VEHICLES; NOTICE TO OWNER.
   If not claimed within 72 hours, it shall be the duty of the Town Clerk to
notify the owner of a stored vehicle in writing, by registered mail, return
receipt requested, of the fact that the vehicle has been stored and the place
of storage, setting forth the reason for its storage and that the vehicle will
be released to him or her upon payment of the charges against it incident to
its storage (including towing and storage charges and the cost of notifying the
owner, and the fine and costs, if any, for a traffic violation). If the vehicle
is registered in this or any other state, the registered owner thereof, as
shown by the records of the state of its registration, shall be deemed to be
the owner of the vehicle and the mailing of the required notice to the
registered owner at the address shown on those records shall be deemed
sufficient notification.
(Ord. passed 11-1-1971)
§ 92.08  DISPOSAL OF VEHICLES; DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.
   (A)   Disposal of vehicles.
      (1)   Should the owner of an abandoned vehicle fail or refuse to pay the
costs or should the identity or whereabouts of the owner be unknown and
unascertainable after a diligent search has been made and after notice to him
or her at his or her last known address and to the holder of any lien of record
in the office of the Department of Motor Vehicles against the vehicle, the
officer designated by the governing body of the municipality may, after holding
the vehicle for 30 days and after having the value of the vehicle determined by
three disinterested dealers or garage persons and after 20 days’ notice has
been given to the Department of Motor Vehicles before the date of sale, dispose
of the same by public or private sale or in the event of an appraised value of
less than $50 by other means in the discretion of the governing body or the
designated officer, and the proceeds of any sale shall be held by the Town
Clerk or similar officer of the municipality.
      (2)   (a)   Should the owner of a junk vehicle fail or refuse to pay the
costs and reclaim it within 15 days after towing, the designated officer may
destroy it or dispose of it by public or private sale in his or her discretion.
Further, the town may, with the consent of the owner of a junk vehicle, remove
and dispose of it regardless of the value, condition or age without waiting the
aforementioned 15-day period.
         (b)   A notice containing as full and accurate a description of the
vehicle as can reasonably be determined shall be given within five days after
the final disposition to the Department of Motor Vehicles, that the vehicle has
been deemed to be a junk motor vehicle and has been disposed of as such.
      (3)   The chief inspector or the Chief of Police may issue a bill of sale
in the name of the town for any vehicle disposed of by their respective
agencies as provided herein.
   (B)   Distribution of proceeds of sale.
      (1)   The Town Clerk shall pay from the proceeds of any sale, the cost of
removal, storage, investigation as to ownership, sale and liens, in that order.
Subject to division (B)(2) below, any remaining proceeds shall be deposited in
the General Fund of the town.
      (2)   If, after the sale, the ownership of any vehicle at the time of its
removal is established satisfactorily to the designated officer by the person
claiming its ownership, the owner shall be paid by that officer so much of the
proceeds from the sale of the vehicle as remains after paying the cost of
removal, storage, investigation as to ownership, sale and liens, as herein
required.
   (C)   Disclaimer. No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal
action to any owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of any
abandoned, junked, lost or stolen vehicle for disposing of that vehicle as
provided by this section.
(Ord. passed 11-1-1971)
CHAPTER 93:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
93.01   Title
   
93.02   Purpose
   
93.03   Definitions
   
93.04   Unlawful housing practices
   
93.05   Exceptions
   
93.06   Agency not a defense
   
93.07   Complaints; enforcement procedure
   
93.08   Civil action; remedies not exclusive
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the town’s “Fair Housing
Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1979)
§ 93.02  PURPOSE.
   The general purposes of this chapter are:
   (A)   To provide for execution within the town of the policies embodied in
the Civil Rights Act of 1968, Title VIII, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., as
amended; and
   (B)   To safeguard all individuals within the town from discrimination in
housing opportunities because of race, color, religion, national origin or sex;
thereby to protect their interest in personal dignity and freedom from
humiliation; to secure the town against domestic strife and unrest which would
menace its democratic institutions; to preserve the public health and general
welfare; and to further the interests, rights and privileges of individuals
within the town.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1979)
§ 93.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATION. Any direct or indirect act or practice of exclusion,
distinction, restriction, segregation, limitation, refusal, denial or any other
act or practice of differentiation or preference in the treatment of a person
or persons because of race, color, religion, national origin or sex, or the
aiding, abetting, inciting, coercing or compelling thereof.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Includes any person, as defined herein, engaged in
the business of lending money or guaranteeing losses.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION. Includes improved and unimproved property and means a
building, structure, mobile home or trailer, or portion thereof, which is used
or occupied, or is intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied as a
home or residence of one or more individuals.
   OWNER. Includes a lessee, sublessee, co-tenant, assignee, managing agent or
other person having the right of ownership or possession, or the right to sell,
rent or lease any housing accommodation.
   PERSON. Includes individuals, children, firms, associations, joint ventures,
partnerships, estates, trusts, business trusts, syndicates, fiduciaries,
corporations and all other groups or combinations.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER or REAL ESTATE SALESPERSON. Any individual, whether
licensed or not, who on behalf of others for a fee commission, salary or other
valuable consideration, or who with the intention or expectation of receiving
or collecting the same, lists, sells, purchases, exchanges, rents or leases any
real estate or the improvements thereon, including options, or who negotiates
or attempts to negotiate such an activity; or who negotiates or attempts to
negotiate a loan, secured by a mortgage or other encumbrance upon a transfer of
real estate; or who is engaged in the business of charging an advance fee or
contracting for collection of a fee in connection with a contract whereby he or
she undertakes to promote the sale, purchase, exchange, rental or lease of real
estate through its listing in a publication issued primarily for that purpose;
or an individual employed by or acting on behalf of any of these.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes buildings, structures, real estate, lands,
tenements, leaseholds, cooperatives, condominiums and hereditaments, corporeal
and incorporeal, or any interest in the above.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1979)
§ 93.04  UNLAWFUL HOUSING PRACTICES.
   It shall be an unlawful practice for a real estate owner or operator or for
a real estate broker, real estate salesperson or any individual employed by or
acting on behalf of any of the above:
   (A)   To refuse to sell, purchase, rent or lease, or deny to or withhold any
housing accommodation from a person because of his or her race, color,
religion, ancestry, national origin, sex or place of birth;
   (B)   To discriminate against a person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation,
or in the furnishing of facilities or services in connection therewith;
   (C)   To refuse to receive or transmit a bona fide offer to sell, purchase,
rent or lease any housing accommodation from or to a person because of his or
her race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex or place of birth;
   (D)   To refuse to negotiate for the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any
housing accommodation to a person because of his or her race, color, religion,
ancestry, national origin, sex or place of birth;
   (E)   To represent to a person that any housing accommodation is not
available for inspection, sale, purchase, rental or lease when in fact it is so
available, or to refuse to permit a person to inspect any housing accommodation
because of his or her race, color, religion, national origin, sex or place of
birth;
   (F)   To make, publish, print, circulate, post or mail, or cause to be made,
published, printed, circulated, posted or mailed, any notice, statement or
advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to sign or to use a form of
application for the sale, purchase, rental, lease or financing of any housing
accommodation, or to make a record of inquiry in connection with the
prospective sale, purchase, rental, lease or financing of any housing
accommodation, which indicates any discrimination or any intent to make a
discrimination;
   (G)   To offer, solicit, accept or use a listing of any housing
accommodation for sale, purchase, rental or lease with the understanding that a
person may be subjected to discrimination in connection with that sale,
purchase, rental or lease, or in the furnishing of facilities or services in
connection therewith;
   (H)   To induce directly or indirectly, or attempt to induce directly or
indirectly, the sale, purchase, rental or lease, or the listing of any of the
above, of any housing accommodation by representing that the presence or
anticipated presence of persons of any particular race, color, religion, sex or
national origin or place of birth in the area to be affected by that sale,
purchase, rental or lease will or may result in either:
      (1)   The lowering of property values in the area;
      (2)   An increase in criminal or antisocial behavior in the area; or
      (3)   A decline in the quality of the schools serving the area.
   (I)   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale,
purchase, rental or lease, or the anticipated listing for any of the above, or
the sale, purchase, rental or lease, of any housing accommodation in any area
for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce any such listing or any of
the above transactions;
   (J)   To engage in, or hire to be done, or to conspire with others to commit
acts or activities of any nature, the purpose of which is to coerce, cause
panic, incite unrest or create or play upon fear, with the purpose of either
discouraging or inducing, or attempting to induce, the sale, purchase, rental
or lease, or the listing for any of the above, of any housing accommodation;
   (K)   To retaliate or discriminate in any manner against a person because he
or she has opposed a practice declared unlawful by this chapter, or because he
or she has filed a complaint, testified, assisted or participated in any manner
in any investigation, proceeding, hearing or conference under this chapter;
   (L)   To aid, abet, incite, compel or coerce any person to engage in any of
the practices prohibited by this chapter, or to obstruct or prevent any person
from complying with the provisions of this chapter, or any order issued
thereunder;
   (M)   By canvassing, to commit any unlawful practices prohibited by this
chapter;
   (N)   Otherwise to deny to, or withhold any housing accommodation from a
person because of his or her race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin,
sex or place of birth;
   (O)   For any bank, building and loan association, insurance company or
other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business consists, in
whole or in part, in the making of commercial real estate loans, to deny a loan
or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the purpose of
purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a dwelling, or to
discriminate against him or her in the fixing of the amount, interest rate,
duration or other terms or conditions of this type of loan or other financial
assistance, because of the race, color, religion, sex or national origin of
that person, or of any person associated with him or her in connection with the
loan or other financial assistance or the purposes of the loan or other
financial assistance, or of the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants
or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation to which the loan or
other financial assistance is to be made or given; or
   (P)   To deny any qualified person access to or membership or participation
in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’ organization or other
service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her in the terms or
conditions of this type of access, membership or participation, on account of
race, color, religion, sex or national origin.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1979)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05  EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   A religious organization, association or society, or any non-profit
institution or organization operating, supervised or controlled by or in
conjunction with a religious organization, association or society, which limits
the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings which it owns or operates for other
than commercial purpose to persons of the same religion, or which gives
preference to those persons, unless membership in that religion is restricted
on account of race, color, sex or national origin;
   (B)   A private club not in fact open to the public, which, as an incident
to its primary purpose or purposes, provides lodgings which it owns or operates
for other than a commercial purpose, and which limits the rental or occupancy
of those lodgings to its members or gives preference to its members;
   (C)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of those living
quarters as his or her residence; or
   (D)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided that, the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided further that, in the case of the sale of any single-
family house by a private individual owner not residing in that house at the
time of prior to the sale, the exemption granted by this division (D) shall
apply only with respect to one such sale within any 24-month period; provided
further that, the bona fide private individual owner does not own any interest
in, nor is there owned or reserved on his or her behalf, under any express or
voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds
from the sale or rental of more than three single-family houses at any one
time; and, provided further, the sale or rental of any single- family house
shall be excepted from the application of this chapter only if that house is
sold or rented:
      (1)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities or
the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson,
or of these types of facilities or services of any person in the business of
selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker,
agent, salesperson or person; and
      (2)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice, of any
advertisement or written notice in violation of the provisions of 42 U.S.C. §
3604(c) or of §
93.04 of this chapter; but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of
attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies and other professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1979)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06  AGENCY NOT A DEFENSE.
   It shall be no defense to a violation of this chapter by a real estate owner
or operator, real estate broker, real estate salesperson, financial institution
or other person subject to the provisions of this chapter, that the violation
was requested, sought or otherwise procured by a person not subject to the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. -, passed 10-1-1979)
§ 93.07  COMPLAINTS; ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person who claims to have been injured by an unlawful housing
practice or who believes that he or she will be irrevocably injured by an
unlawful housing practice that is about to occur may file a complaint with the
town.
   (B)   All complaints shall be filed within 180 days after the alleged
unlawful housing practice occurred. Complaints shall be in writing and shall
state the facts upon which allegations of a violation of this chapter are
based. The respondent may file an answer to the complaint. Both complaint and
answer may be amended.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a complaint, either from the complainant or the
Secretary of HUD, the town shall designate an agent to investigate the matter,
to notify the person(s) who allegedly committed or is about to commit the
alleged unlawful housing practice, and to seek to conciliate the alleged
violation.
   (D)   If the town is unable to resolve the alleged discrimination within 30
days, the complainant may file or request the town to file the complaint with
the Secretary of HUD pursuant to the Civil Rights Act of 1968, Title VIII,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq. and may commence a civil action in the General
Court of Justice for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1979)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08  CIVIL ACTION; REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   (A)   The town may sue in a civil act through the General Court of Justice
for appropriate remedies to enforce the provisions of this chapter, including
temporary restraining orders and mandatory and prohibitory injunctions.
   (B)   In addition to appropriate civil and equitable remedies for
enforcement of this chapter, an offender may be subjected to criminal
prosecution for violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1979)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   The violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty in the amount of $200 to be recovered in a civil
action; provided that, in the case of a continuing violation, the total penalty
shall not exceed $1,000.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1979)
CHAPTER 94:  PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Park Regulations
   
94.01   Park hours; special permits
   
94.02   Alcoholic beverages prohibited
   
94.03   Bicycles and other vehicles prohibited
   
94.05   Animals prohibited in certain areas
   
94.06   Nuisances; owner’s responsibility
 
   
94.99   Penalty
PARK REGULATIONS
§ 94.01  PARK HOURS; SPECIAL PERMITS.
   (A)   The park hours shall be from 8:00 a.m. until 30 minutes after sunset
year-round excluding sanctioned tournaments or other events approved by the
town and the tennis courts which will be open from 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
   (B)   Permits will be available from the Town Hall for special use and for
special groups. No special permits will be issued without at least 24 hours’
notice.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1974; Ord. passed 11-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   No alcoholic beverages shall be consumed or displayed on the park grounds.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1974)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03  BICYCLES AND OTHER VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   There shall be no riding of bicycles or vehicles of any kind, including
motorcycles, motorbikes and go- carts, on the park grounds, except in the
parking area and only then when necessary for ingress and egress.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1974)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05  ANIMALS PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN AREAS.
   There shall be no pets allowed in the park except in the natural areas
immediately adjacent to the playground area and basketball courts and common/
walking areas immediately adjacent to the athletic fields and concession stand.
Pets are strictly prohibited from hard surface playing areas such as the
playground, basketball courts, tennis courts and including the athletic fields.
Any pet that is not confined as provided in this section and not under the
actual and direct physical control or restraint of its owner, leaseholder or
keeper by an adequate leash shall be presumed to be running at large and is
prohibited as per this section and the Dog Control  Ordinance adopted August 6,
2012. This prohibition does not apply to service animals as defined by the
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). 
(Ord. passed 11-4-1974; Ord. passed 5-6-2019)
§ 94.06  NUISANCE; OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   Damaging, soiling, defiling or defecating on park property not promptly and
properly removed and disposed of in a sanitary manner, excessive noise making,
excessive odor, excessive barking,  molesting, threatening, attacking or
interfering with persons on park property, chasing automobiles or other means
of conveyance, attacking other animals and disturbing or turning over garbage
containers or running at large without an adequate leash or interfering with
another  person's enjoyment of park property is hereby declared a nuisance and
those pets shall be immediately removed from the property. (Ord. passed 11-4-
1974; Ord. passed 5-6-2019)
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
other specific penalty has been provided shall be subject to the penalties
described in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In the event that a pet is found to be in violation of §§
94.05 or
94.06 of this chapter, the following procedures will be followed by the Police
Department:
      (1)   For the first violation, the offender will receive a written
warning from the Police Department;
      (2)   For the second violation, the offender shall be punished a fine not
exceed $100; and
      (3)   For the third violation, the offender shall be guilty of a Class 3
misdemeanor and shall be punished a fine not to exceed $100. In addition, the
pet may be seized by the Police Department.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1974; Ord. passed 5-6-2019)
CHAPTER 95:  DONATION BINS
Section
   
95.01   Donation bins prohibited
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01  DONATION BINS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Donation bins for the collection of clothing and other articles,
whether for charitable or non-charitable purposes, are prohibited within the
corporate limits and the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the town.
   (B)   This section was in full force and effect from and after 11-7-2016.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2016)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99  PENALTY.
   Violation of §
95.01 of this chapter shall be punishable as a Class 3 misdemeanor and shall be
subject to a fine as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day’s continuing violation shall be a
separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2016)
CHAPTER 96:  FALSE ALARMS
Section
   
96.01   Introduction
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Exemptions
   
96.04   Response to alarm; determination of validity
   
96.05   Duty of alarm user and alarm company
   
96.06   Prohibited acts
   
96.07   Appeals
   
96.08   Public nuisance
   
96.09   Confidentiality
   
96.10   Governmental immunity
   
96.11   Disposition of revenue
   
96.12   Effective date
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01  INTRODUCTION.
   The Board of Commissioners finds that excessive false alarms unduly burden
the town’s limited emergency response resources. The rising number of false
alarms being transmitted to the town and the increased cost of responding to
these false alarms, both in form of equipment and personnel, necessitates the
enactment of regulations designed to reduce the incidence of false alarms and
to recover some of the costs incurred in responding thereto. The purpose of
this chapter is to establish reasonable expectations for alarm users and to
ensure that alarm users are held responsible for their use of alarm systems.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016)
§ 96.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM COMPANY. A person, company, firm or corporation engaged in selling,
leasing, installing, servicing or monitoring alarm systems and which is
licensed by the state’s Alarm Systems Licensing Board.
   ALARM ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATOR. A person or persons designated by the town to
administer the provisions of this chapter.
   ALARM SIGNAL. A detectable signal, audible or visual, generated by an alarm
system, to which emergency responders are requested to respond.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any single device or assembly of equipment designed to signal
the occurrence of an illegal or unauthorized entry, detection of smoke and/or
fire, alerting other of an medical emergency or other activity to which
emergency responders are requested to respond, and which may emit a sound or
transmit a signal or message which, when activated cause an automatic signal
transmission to be made directly or indirectly to the emergency response
personnel. This does not include motor vehicle or boat alarms.
   ALARM USER. Any person, corporation, partnership, proprietorship,
governmental or educational entity or any other entity owning, leasing or
operating an alarm system, or on whose premises an alarm system is maintained
for the protection of such premises.
   ALARM USER AWARENESS CLASS. A class conducted for the purpose of educating
alarm users about the responsible use, operation and maintenance of alarm
systems and the problems created by false alarms.
   AUTOMATIC DIAL PROTECTION DEVICE. An automatic dialing device or an
automatic telephone dialing alarm system which, upon being activated,
automatically initiates to the emergency responders a recorded message or code
signal indicating a need for emergency response.
   FALSE ALARM. The activation of an alarm system when, upon inspection by the
Police Department, Fire Department or other responders that there is no
evidence of unauthorized entry, robbery, smoke, fire or other such crime
attempted in or on the premises which would have activated a properly
functioning alarm system. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a FALSE ALARM does not
include an alarm which can reasonably be determined to have been caused or
activated by unusually violent conditions of nature.
   HEARING COMMITTEE. The committee appointed by the town’s Board of
Commissioners to hear appeals of false alarm determinations.
   LOCAL ALARM SYSTEM. An alarm system that emits a signal at an alarm site
that is audible or visible from the exterior of a structure and is not
monitored by a remote monitoring facility, whether installed by an alarm
company or user.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT, FIRE OR OTHER EMERGENCY RESPONSE. The Police Department,
Fire Department or any other emergency response team authorized by the town.
   VERIFY. An attempt by the alarm system monitoring company to contact the
alarm site and/or alarm user by telephone and/or other electronic means,
whether or not actual contact with a person is made, to determine whether an
alarm signal is valid before requesting law enforcement response. A second call
shall be made to an alternate number provided by the alarm user if the first
attempt fails.
   YEAR. The 12-month period beginning on January 1 of each year.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016)
§ 96.03  EXEMPTIONS.
   An alarm will not be considered false if it is determined that the alarm was
caused by:
   (A)   A natural or human-made catastrophe or other “Act of God”, such as
tornadoes, floods, earthquakes or other similarly violent conditions;
   (B)   Vandalism causing physical damage to the property;
   (C)   Attempted entry of a location causing visible, physical or other
evidence of damage to the location which has caused the alarm to sound;
   (D)   Evidence of fire which has caused the alarm to sound;
   (E)   Severe weather or failure of electrical power not caused by the
subscriber; and
   (F)   The pre-approved test of a local alarm system by an authorized alarm
agent or alarm company employee who is present at the premises inspecting,
servicing, repairing or installing the alarm.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016)
§ 96.04  RESPONSE TO ALARM; DETERMINATION OF VALIDITY.
   (A)   Police, fire or other emergency response. Whenever an alarm is
activated in the town and the police, fire and other emergency response does
respond, the responder on the scene shall inspect the area to reasonably
determine whether the response to the alarm was in fact necessary or whether
the alarm was a false alarm.
   (B)   Notification. If the responder determines the alarm to be false, he or
she shall make a report of the false alarm to the Alarm Ordinance Administrator
and the Alarm Ordinance Administrator shall notify the alarm user in writing of
such false alarm determination.
   (C)   Inspection. The town’s Police Department, Fire Department or other
emergency response personnel authorized by the town shall have the right to
inspect any alarm system on the premises to which a response has been made as a
reasonable time thereafter to determine whether it is being used in conformity
with the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016)
§ 96.05  DUTY OF ALARM USER AND ALARM COMPANY.
   (A)   An alarm user shall:
      (1)   Maintain the premises and the alarm system in a manner that will
reduce or eliminate false alarms;
      (2)   Respond or cause a representative to respond to the alarm system’s
location within 30 minutes of notification by the emergency responders;
      (3)   Not manually activate an alarm for any reason other than an
occurrence of an event that the alarm system was intended to report; and
      (4)   Properly train all alarm users on how to properly engage and
disengage the alarm system and make sure all potential user fully understand
the process. Alarms shall only be silenced and not reset until a full
determination of the cause of the event is completed by emergency responders.
In the event that an accurate determination of the cause can’t be made, it is
assumed to be a false alarm.
   (B)   An alarm company operating within the town shall:
      (1)   Obtain and maintain the required State Alarm Systems Licensing
Board license;
      (2)   Be able to provide name, address and telephone number(s) of the
alarm user or a designee, who can be called in an emergency at any time and be
able to respond to an alarm call, when notified, within 30 minutes;
      (3)   Prior to activation of the alarm system, provide instructions
explaining the proper operation of the alarm system to the alarm user;
      (4)   Provide written information of how to obtain service from the alarm
company for the alarm system to the alarm user;
      (5)   When working on an alarm system or testing or drills, E-911 shall
be notified prior to any procedure being made. Failure to do so may result in a
false alarm determination;
      (6)   Communicate any available information about the location or
operations of the alarm and/or alarm system; and
      (7)   Communicate a cancellation to emergency response as soon as
possible following a determination that response is unnecessary.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016)
§ 96.06  PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to activate an alarm system for the purpose of
summoning law enforcement when no burglary, robbery or other crime dangerous to
life or property is being committed or attempted on the premises, or otherwise
to cause a false alarm.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to install, maintain or use an audible alarm
system which can sound continually for more than 15 minutes.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to install, maintain or use an automatic dial
protection device that reports, or causes to be reported, any recorded message
to emergency responders.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016)
§ 96.07  APPEALS.
   (A)   Assessments of civil penalties and other enforcement decisions made
under this chapter may be appealed by filing a written notice of appeal with
the Alarm Ordinance Administrator within ten days after the date of
notification of the assessment of civil penalty or other enforcement decision.
The failure to give notice of appeal within this time period shall constitute a
waiver of the right to contest the assessment of penalty or other enforcement
decision. Appeals shall be heard through an administrative process established
by the town.
   (B)   The Hearing Committee shall review an appeal from the assessment of
civil penalty or other enforcement decisions and shall render a decision based
on available information and evidence. The Hearing Committee shall have the
discretion to dismiss or reduce civil penalties or reverse any other
enforcement decision where warranted.
   (C)   The alarm user shall provide the Hearing Committee with substantial
facts and/or expert testimony upon which request for review of the false alarm
determination is made.
   (D)   The decision of the Hearing Committee is the final step in the
administrative process and is conclusive upon the appellant or alarm user who
shall be considered to have exhausted all administrative remedies that are
available to appellant or alarm user.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016)
§ 96.08  PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   It is hereby found and determined that three or more false alarms within a
year is excessive, constitutes a public nuisance and shall be unlawful. Civil
penalties for false alarms within a year shall be assessed against an alarm
user as established below.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016)
§ 96.09  CONFIDENTIALITY.
   The town acknowledges that certain information obtained or compiled in the
course of requiring registration of alarm systems may be exempt from public
records disclosure requirements. In the interests of public safety, for the
protection of sensitive security information or the protection of criminal
intelligence information, all information compiled by the town pursuant to this
chapter shall be held in confidence by all employees and/or representatives and
agents of the town, except as otherwise required by law or by order of a court
of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016)
§ 96.10  GOVERNMENTAL IMMUNITY.
   The operation of a local alarm system is not intended to, nor will it,
create a contract, duty or obligation, either expressed or implied, of
response. Any and all liability and consequential damage resulting from the
failure to respond to a notification is hereby disclaimed and governmental
immunity as provided by law is retained. The alarm user acknowledges that
emergency response may be influenced by factors such as: the availability of
units, priority of calls, weather conditions, traffic conditions, emergency
conditions, staffing levels and prior response history.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016)
§ 96.11  DISPOSITION OF REVENUE.
   Revenue collected shall be used to offset expenses of personnel and
equipment to respond to false alarms as determined by the town’s Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016)
§ 96.12  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter became effective on 10-3-2016.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016)
§ 96.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Assessment of penalties. Violations of other provisions of this
chapter will be enforced through the assessment of civil penalties established
by the town.
   (B)   Payment of civil penalties. Civil penalties shall be paid within 30
days from the date of the invoice.
   (C)   Civil non-criminal violation. A violation of this chapter shall be a
civil violation and shall not constitute a criminal offense. The town may apply
to a court of competent jurisdiction for injunction, abatement order or other
equitable remedy.
   (D)   Civil penalty for false alarms. This applies to both burglar and fire
alarms.
      (1)   The third through fifth false alarms within a year will be assessed
a $50 civil penalty per occurrence.
      (2)   The sixth through seventh false alarms within a year will be
assessed a $100 civil penalty per occurrence.
      (3)   The eighth through ninth false alarms within a year will be
assessed a $250 civil penalty per occurrence.
      (4)   The tenth and over false alarm with a year will be assessed a $500
civil penalty per occurrence.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2016)
CHAPTER 97:  PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES AND PARADES
Section
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   Permits
   
97.03   Regulations
§ 97.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPEALS OFFICIAL. The Town Manager, or his or her designee, who shall be a
deputy or assistant Town Manager.
   DEMONSTRATION. A public display of sentiment for or against a person or
cause, including protesting.
   FESTIVAL. A concert, fair, exhibit, promotion, community event, block party
or similar event.
   PARADE. An athletic event, march, ceremony, pageant, procession or other
similar activity consisting of persons, animals, vehicles or things, or any
combination thereof, that disrupts the normal flow of traffic upon any public
street. A funeral procession is not a PARADE.
   PERMIT OFFICIAL. The person or persons designated by the town manager as
being responsible for issuing permits under this chapter. The Town Manager may
designate different persons as the PERMIT OFFICIAL for different categories of
permitted events and for different facilities or locations.
   PUBLIC ASSEMBLY.
      (1)   A festival or demonstration which is reasonably anticipated to
obstruct the normal flow of traffic upon any public street; and
      (2)   A festival or demonstration at the town park or on any other town-
owned property.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2011)
§ 97.02  PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit required. No public assembly or parade is permitted unless a
permit allowing such activity has been obtained pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Permit application. An application for a public assembly or parade
permit shall be made in Writing on a form prescribed by the permit official at
least 30 days before the commencement of the event. Notwithstanding the
preceding sentence, the permit official shall consider an application that is
filed less than 30 days before the commencement of the proposed event where the
purpose of such event is a spontaneous response to a current event, or where
other good and compelling causes are shown.
   (C)   Application requirements. The application must contain the following:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number for the person in charge of
the proposed event and the name of the organization with which that person is
affiliated or on whose behalf the person is applying (collectively
“applicant”);
      (2)   The name, address and telephone number for an individual who shall
be designated as the responsible planner and on-site manager for the event;
      (3)   The date, time, place and route of the proposed event, including
the location and time that the event will begin to assemble and disband, and
any requested street closings;
      (4)   The anticipated number of persons and vehicles, and the basis on
which this estimate is made;
      (5)   A list of the number and type of animals that will be at the event
and all necessary health certificates for such animals;
      (6)   Such other information, attachments and submissions that are
requested on the application form; and
      (7)   Payment of a non-refundable application fee in the amount of $25.
   (D)   Permitting criteria. An application may be denied for any of the
following reasons:
      (1)   The application is not fully completed and executed;
      (2)   The applicant has not tendered the required application fee or has
not tendered other required user fees, indemnification agreements, insurance
certificates or security deposits within times prescribed;
      (3)   The application contains a material falsehood or misrepresentation;
      (4)   The applicant is legally incompetent to contract or to sue and be
sued;
      (5)   The applicant has on prior occasions made material
misrepresentations regarding the nature or scope of an event;
      (6)   The applicant has previously permitted a violation or has violated
the terms of a public assembly or parade permit issued to or on behalf of the
applicant;
      (7)   The applicant has on prior occasions damaged town property
      (8)   A fully executed prior application for the same time and place has
been received and a permit has been or will be granted to a prior applicant
authorizing uses or activities which do not reasonably permit multiple
simultaneous events;
      (9)   The proposed event would conflict with previously planned programs
organized, conducted or sponsored by the town and previously scheduled at or
near the same time and place;
      (10)   The proposed event would present an unreasonable danger to the
public health or safety;
      (11)   The proposed event would substantially or unnecessarily interfere
with traffic;
      (12)   The event would likely interfere with the movement of emergency
equipment and police protection in areas contiguous or in the vicinity of the
event;
      (13)   There would not, at the time of the event, be sufficient law
enforcement and traffic control officers to adequately protect participants and
non-participants from traffic related hazards in light of the other demands for
police protection at the time of the proposed event;
      (14)   The applicant has not complied or cannot comply with applicable
licensure requirements, ordinances or regulations concerning the sale or
offering for sale of any goods or services;
      (15)   The use or activity intended by the applicant is prohibited by
law;
      (16)   For non-First Amendment protected public assemblies or parades,
the following criteria shall also apply:
         (a)   The cultural and/or educational significance of the event;
         (b)   The extent to which the event contributes to the economic
revitalization and business development of the town;
         (c)   The impact and/or cost of the event to town support services;
         (d)   The impact of the event to the public health, safety and
welfare;
         (e)   The impact of the event on business and resident populations
within or adjacent to the proposed event site;
         (f)   The evaluation of any previous event produced by the event
organizer with regard to planning, quality, public safety and payment of
invoices;
         (g)   The frequency and timing of the event or similar events.
   (E)   Denial. Unless subject to division (D)(16) above in this section shall
authorize the permit official to deny a permit based upon political, social or
religious grounds or reasons, or based upon the content of the views expressed.
   (F)   Conditions. The permit official may attach reasonable conditions to
any permit approval.
   (G)   Costs and fees. The applicant shall be responsible for hiring and
paying off-duty law enforcement officers, or reimbursing the town for the costs
of providing on-duty law enforcement officers, to appropriately police street
closures. For festivals, the applicant shall be additionally responsible for
hiring and paying off-duty law enforcement officers, or reimbursing the town
for the costs of providing on-duty law enforcement officers, to provide
internal festival security and for hiring and paying necessary emergency
medical technicians.
   (H)   Officers needed.
      (1)   The permit official, in consultation with the town’s Police
Department, shall determine the number of officers needed to appropriately
police street closures and for internal security, and the number of emergency
medical technicians needed, and the time when such services shall commence and
end, taking into consideration the following:
         (a)   The proposed location of the special event or route of the
parade;
         (b)   The time of day that the public assembly or parade is to take
place;
         (c)   The date and day of the week proposed;
         (d)   The general traffic conditions in the area requested, both
vehicular and pedestrian. Special attention is given to the re-routing of the
vehicles or pedestrians normally using the requested area;
         (e)   The number of marked and unmarked intersections along the route
requested, together with the traffic-control devices present;
         (f)   If traffic must be completely rerouted from the area, then the
number of marked and unmarked intersections and the traffic-control devices are
to be taken into consideration;
         (g)   The estimated number of participants;
         (h)   The estimated number of viewers;
         (i)   The nature, composition, format and configuration of the special
event or parade;
         (j)   The anticipated weather conditions;
         (k)   The estimated time for the special event or parade;
         (l)   For festivals, whether alcohol will be served, live music
offered or retail sales stations provided, and the number and location of
alcohol service stands, music stages and retail stands.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the town may provide the services
required by this division (H)(2) at no cost, or at a reduced cost, to the
applicant should the town desire to provide such support to the public assembly
or parade. Such action is not a waiver of a regulatory requirement based upon
political, social or religious grounds or reasons, or based upon the content of
the views expressed, but instead is an affirmative act of town association or
speech.
   (I)   Time and notice of decision. The permit official shall approve or deny
an application within 20 days of receipt. A notice of denial shall clearly set
forth the grounds upon which the permit was denied and, where feasible, shall
contain a proposal for measures by which the applicant may cure any defects in
the application or otherwise procure a permit. Where an application is denied
because the proposed event would conflict with another event that has or will
be approved, the permit official shall propose an alternative place, if
available for the same time, or an alternative time, if available for the same
place.
   (J)   Appeals.
      (1)   An applicant may appeal the denial of an application in writing
within ten days after notice of the denial has been received. Within five
business days, or such longer period of time agreed to by the applicant, the
appeals official shall hold a quasi- judicial hearing on whether to issue the
permit or uphold the denial. The applicant shall have the right to present
evidence at said hearing. The decision to issue or uphold the denial shall be
based solely on the approval criteria set forth in this section. The appeals
official shall render a decision on the appeal within five business days after
the date of the hearing. In the event that the purpose of the proposed event is
a spontaneous response to a current event, or where other good and compelling
causes are shown, the appeals official shall reasonably attempt to conduct the
hearing and render a decision on the appeal as expeditiously as is practicable.
      (2)   The decision of the appeals official is subject to review in the
Superior Court of the county by proceedings in the nature of certiorari. Any
petition for writ of certiorari for review shall be filed with the Clerk of
Superior Court within 30 days after the applicant has received notice of the
decision. Unless good cause exists to contest a petition for writ of
certiorari, the town shall stipulate to certiorari no later than five business
days after the petitioner requests such a stipulation. The town shall transmit
the record to the court no later than five business days after receiving the
order allowing certiorari. Notwithstanding the provisions of any local rule of
the reviewing court that allows for a longer time period, the town shall file
its brief within 15 days after it is served with the petitioner’s brief. If the
petitioner serves his or her brief by mail, the town shall add three days to
this time limit, in accordance with North G.S. § 1A-1, Rule 5. If the local
rule is subsequently amended to provide for a shorter time period for the
filing of any brief, then the shorter time period shall control. The state’s
Rules of Appellate Procedure shall govern an appeal by an applicant from the
Superior Court of the county.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision of
this section or to violate any term or condition of a permit issued pursuant to
this section.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2011)
§ 97.03  REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede or
interfere with a public assembly or parade, or with any person, vehicle or
animal participating or used in the public assembly or parade.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a motor vehicle to drive
between vehicles or persons comprising a parade when such vehicles or persons
are in motion and are conspicuously designated as a parade.
   (C)   Spectators of a public assembly or parade and persons attending or
participating in a public assembly or parade picketing shall be subject to all
applicable local, state and federal laws including, but not limited to G.S. §
14-277.2 (weapons).
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits a law enforcement officer from
issuing a command to disperse in accordance with G.S. § 14-288.5 in the event
of a riot or disorderly conduct by an assemblage of three or more persons.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2011)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT VENDORS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110:  PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT VENDORS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Permit required
   
110.03   Permit application
   
110.04   Permit issuance
   
110.05   Badge
   
110.06   Fee; duration
§ 110.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. Any person who transports goods from place to place and sells or
offers for sale those goods, or who, without traveling from place to place,
sells or offers for sale any goods from any vehicle or device; provided that,
any person who separates the acts of sale and delivery for the purpose of
evading the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a PEDDLER.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels from place to place taking or offering to
take orders for the sale of goods for future delivery, whether or not samples
are displayed or money is collected in advance, and any person who uses or
occupies any building or premises for the sole purpose of taking or offering to
take orders for the sale of goods for future delivery, or for personal services
to be performed in the future, whether or not samples are displayed or money is
collected in advance.
   TRANSIENT VENDOR. Any person who engages in a temporary business of selling
and delivering goods and who, for this purpose, uses or occupies any building
or premises; provided that, no person shall be relieved from complying with the
provisions of this chapter merely by conducting a transient business in
association with any permanently established merchant.
(Ord. passed 7-10-1978)
§ 110.02  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   In order to protect the public health, safety and welfare, it shall be
unlawful for a peddler, solicitor or transient vendor, as defined by §
110.01 of this chapter, to engage in that business within the town without
first obtaining a permit therefor, in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-10-1978)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03  PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Each and every person doing business in the town as a peddler,
solicitor or transient vendor shall file with the Town Clerk, on a form to be
provided for this purpose, an application for a permit.
   (B)   The application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the individual filing the application;
      (2)   The name and address of the principal or employer if the applicant
is an agent or employee;
      (3)   Credentials showing the relationship of the agent or employee;
      (4)   A description of the applicant, including height, weight, sex, age,
color and distinguishing characteristics, if any;
      (5)   The goods to be sold or offered for sale, or the type of services
to be rendered;
      (6)   The period of time during which the business will be carried on in
the town;
      (7)   A description of the automobile or other vehicle to be used in the
business, including the make, model, body style, color and license number;
      (8)   Whether or not the applicant, his or her principal or employer, or
any other person having management or supervision of the applicant’s business,
has been convicted of a crime, the nature of the offense and the punishment
assessed therefor; and
      (9)   Other information as to the identity of the applicant or the nature
of his or her business as the Town Clerk may deem proper to protect the public
health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. passed 7-10-1978)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04  PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, the Town Clerk shall cause to be made
such investigation of the applicant’s moral character and business
responsibility as is necessary to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
   (B)   If, as a result of this investigation, the character and
responsibility of the applicant appear to be unsatisfactory, the application
shall be denied. If, as a result of this investigation, the character and
responsibility of the applicant appear to be satisfactory, the Town Clerk shall
issue a permit; provided that, the permit fee has been paid.
(Ord. passed 7-10-1978)
§ 110.05  BADGE.
   (A)   The Town Clerk shall, in addition to the license issued under §
110.04 of this chapter, issue to each successful applicant a badge which shall
be substantially in the following form:
 
20                     Town of Kenansville, N.C.      No.              
SOLICITOR’S BADGE
                                                   has registered with the Town Clerk as required by Ord.         
    .
                                                                           
Date               Town Clerk
 
   (B)   During the time the applicant is engaged in the business of a peddler,
solicitor or transient vendor, this badge shall be worn on the front of his or
her outer garment in a manner so as to be conspicuous.
(Ord. passed 7-10-1978)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06  FEE; DURATION.
   The Town Clerk shall charge and collect a permit fee of $20 from each
applicant in order to recover the administrative costs of processing each
application. This $20 fee is good for one week; and the applicant must pay an
additional permit fee of $20 for every week that he or she does business in the
town.
(Ord. passed 7-10-1978; Ord. passed 3-5-1984; Ord. passed 12-1-2014)  Penalty,
see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111:  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
111.01   Sunday beer and wine sales
§ 111.01  SUNDAY BEER AND WINE SALES.
   (A)   The sale of malt beverages (beer) and wine shall be prohibited in the
town between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. on Sunday. Sales may resume
after 1:00 p.m. on Sunday.
   (B)   Every business or firm licensed to sell malt beverages (beer) and wine
in the town shall be served by the Police Department of the town with written
notice of this section.
   (C)   This section became effective at 1:00 p.m., Sunday, 9-19-2004.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1981; Ord. passed 9-13-2004)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Offenses Against Public Peace and Safety
   
130.01   Skating on public ways and places
   
130.02   Loitering; obstruction of public ways and buildings
   
130.03   Discharging firearms
   
130.04   Meetings and demonstrations on public ways; permit required
Offenses Against Public Morals
   
130.15   Loitering for drug-related activity
   
130.16   Public consumption of alcoholic beverages
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC
PEACE AND SAFETY
§ 130.01  SKATING ON PUBLIC WAYS AND PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to skate on roller skates, or to ride or
skate on a puddle jumper, roller coaster, skateboard or scooter on any street,
roadway, sidewalk, public parking or public vehicular area within the
designated central business district of the town as incorporated within the
official zoning map of the town, or within any park or public vehicular parking
area owned by the town. It shall be unlawful for any parent of a minor child to
allow his or her minor child to skate on any street, roadway, road, sidewalk,
public parking or public vehicular area within the official zoning map of the
town or within any park or public vehicular parking areas owned by the town.
(Ord. passed 11-3-2003)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02  LOITERING; OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS AND BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No person shall loiter, lounge or sleep in or upon any street, park or
public place or in any public building, or obstruct the access to any public
building or any part thereof, or obstruct passage through or upon any public
street, park or public place.
   (B)   LOITER shall encompass, but shall not necessarily be limited to, one
or more of the following acts:
      (1)   Obstruction of the free, unhampered passage of pedestrians or
vehicles; and
      (2)   Refusing to move on when so requested by a peace officer; provided,
the peace officer has exercised his or her discretion reasonably under the
circumstances in order to preserve or promote public peace and order.
(Ord. passed 11-3-2003)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03  DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any gun, pistol,
pellet gun or any other firearm within the town limits of the town, except for
the following persons:
      (1)   A police or law enforcement officer while in the performance of his
or her duty;
      (2)   Any person or individual while protecting his or her life and
property, where that life and property is being threatened by a human being;
      (3)   Any person protecting individual property from damage caused by
squirrels, and other wild animals, after first receiving a permit from the
town’s Police Department; or
      (4)   Snakes may be shot without a permit.
   (B)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after ten days
subsequent to the date of its adoption.
(Ord. passed 9-16-1985)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04  MEETINGS AND DEMONSTRATIONS ON PUBLIC WAYS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   No person or group of persons shall hold an open air public
meeting, demonstration or march upon a public street, alley, sidewalk or mall
unless a permit therefor shall first be obtained from the town’s Board of
Commissioners.
      (2)   OPEN AIR PUBLIC MEETING  includes the delivery of a public address,
lecture, sermon or discourse, or the conducting of a public musical or
theatrical performance.
   (B)   Every permit issued under this section shall be in writing and shall
specify the day and hour of the open air public meeting and shall be limited to
a specific occasion on a single day.
   (C)   Application shall be made to the Board of Commissioners in writing,
and shall be filed with the Town Clerk at the Town Hall. The Board shall act
upon the application, at a called meeting, if necessary, within 72 hours after
the filing of the application. No permit shall be denied by the town’s Board of
Commissioners unless the Board finds that the proposed open air public meeting
will conflict with one already scheduled or that the proposed open air public
meeting will seriously obstruct the free flow of vehicular or pedestrian
traffic.
(Ord. passed 1-6-1976)  Penalty, see §
10.99
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
§ 130.15  LOITERING FOR DRUG-RELATED ACTIVITY.
   The existence of any of the following conditions within the corporate limits
is hereby declared loitering for the purpose of engaging in drug-related
activity.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      KNOWN UNLAWFUL DRUG USER, POSSESSOR OR SELLER. A person who has, within
the knowledge of the arresting officer, been convicted in any court within the
state of any violation involving the use, possession or sale of any of the
substances referred to in the state’s Controlled Substances Act, G.S. Ch. 90,
Art. 5, or has been convicted of any violation of any substantially similar
laws of any political subdivision of the state, or of any other state, or of
federal law.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, sidewalk, bridge, alley or alleyway, plaza,
park, driveway, parking lot or transportation facility, or the doorways and
entranceways to any building which fronts on any of those places, or a motor
vehicle in or on any of those places, or any property owned by the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person to remain or wander about in a
public place in a manner and under circumstances manifesting the purpose to
engage in a violation of any subdivision of the state’s Controlled Substances
Act, G.S. Ch. 90, Art. 5. Those circumstances shall include:
      (1)   Repeatedly beckoning to, stopping or attempting to stop passers-by,
or repeatedly attempting to engage passers-by in conversation;
      (2)   Repeatedly stopping or attempting to stop motor vehicles;
      (3)   Repeatedly interfering with the free passage of other persons;
      (4)   The person is a known unlawful drug user, possessor or seller;
      (5)   The person behaves in a manner so as to raise a reasonable
suspicion that he or she is about to engage in or is engaged in an unlawful
drug-related activity;
      (6)   The person repeatedly passes to or receives from passers-by,
whether on foot or in a vehicle, money or objects;
      (7)   The person takes flight upon the approach or appearance of a police
officer;
      (8)   The person is at a location frequented by persons who use, possess
or sell drugs; or
      (9)   Any vehicle involved is registered to a known unlawful drug user,
possessor or seller, or is known to be or have been involved in drug-related
activities.
(Ord. passed 12-4-1995)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit acts detrimental to public health, safety or welfare,
see G.S. § 160A-174
§ 130.16  PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume or display any
alcoholic beverages on any property owned or controlled by the town or upon any
public vehicular area; provided that, this section shall not apply to the
premises of those establishments that have an on-premises ABC permit issued by
the state’s Alcoholic Beverage Commission pursuant to the General Statutes of
the state.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES. Includes alcohol, brandy, whiskey, rum, gin, beer,
ale, porter and wine and, in addition thereto, any spirituous, vinous, malt or
fermented beverages, liquids and compounds, whether medicated, proprietary,
patented, or not, and by whatever name called, containing 0.5% or more of
alcohol by volume, which are fit for use for beverage purposes.
      PUBLIC VEHICULAR AREA. Includes any drive, driveway, road, roadway,
street, sidewalk, alley, parking area or other space open for the purpose of
vehicular traffic or operation upon the grounds or premises of:
         (a)   Any public or private hospital, college, university, school,
orphanage or church, or any institution maintained and supported by the state,
the town or the county; or
         (b)   Any service station, car wash, supermarket, store, restaurant,
amusement center, lounge, shopping center or office building, or any other
business or municipal establishment or groups of such establishments, providing
parking space for customers, patrons, employees or the public.
   (C)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after ten days
subsequent to the date of its adoption.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1980; Ord. passed 3-10-1980)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152.   UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Insulation
   
150.01   New construction and additions; insulation inspection
   
150.02   Town Insulation Inspector; duties and authority
   
150.03   Inspection fee
   
150.04   Effective date
INSULATION
§ 150.01  NEW CONSTRUCTION AND ADDITIONS; INSULATION INSPECTION.
   The owners of each new building, dwelling house or additions thereto shall
be required to apply at the Town Hall to have their construction inspected with
regards to being properly insulated according to the General Statutes.
(Ord. passed 9-4-1978)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.02  TOWN INSULATION INSPECTOR; DUTIES AND AUTHORITY.
   The town shall designate some qualified employee or person to act as the
town’s Insulation Inspector with the following duties and authority:
   (A)   To inspect each new building, dwelling house or addition thereto
during construction to determine if the insulation is installed as required by
the General Statutes;
   (B)   If the Insulation Inspector finds that the construction is not
properly insulated, he or she has the authority to stop all construction until
it has been properly insulated according to his or her instructions; and
   (C)   If the Insulation Inspector finds the construction properly insulated,
then he or she shall submit his or her approval in writing to the owner.
(Ord. passed 9-4-1978)
§ 150.03  INSPECTION FEE.
   There shall be an insulation inspection fee of $15 for each insulation
inspection.
(Ord. passed 9-4-1978)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.04  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective as soon as a Town Insulation
Inspector has been appointed by the town’s Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 9-4-1978)
CHAPTER 151:  FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Statutory authorization
   
151.02   Findings of fact
   
151.03   Statement of purpose
   
151.04   Objectives
   
151.05   Definitions
   
151.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
151.07   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
151.08   Compliance
   
151.09   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.10   Interpretation
   
151.11   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.25   General standards
   
151.26   Specific standards
   
151.27   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations
   
151.28   Standards for riverine floodplains with BFE but without established
floodways or non-encroachment areas
   
151.29   Floodways and non-encroachment areas
Administration, Enforcement, Legal Provisions
   
151.40   Designation of Floodplain Administrator; duties and responsibilities
   
151.41   Floodplain development permit required; application and certification
requirements
   
151.42   Corrective procedures
   
151.43   Variance procedures
   
151.44   Effect on rights and liabilities under existing flood damage
prevention ordinance
   
151.45   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits
   
151.46   Effective date
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the state has (in G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 21, Part 6; Ch.
153A, Art. 18, Parts 3 and 4; and Ch. 153A, Art. 6, Part 121) delegated the
responsibility to local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to
promote the public health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
(Ord. passed 6-6-2005)
§ 151.02  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood prone areas within the jurisdiction of the town are subject
to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures of flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities and by the
occupancy in flood-prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other hazards.
(Ord. passed 6-6-2005)
§ 151.03  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within flood-prone areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and all other development that may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. passed 6-6-2005)
§ 151.04  OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood-control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e., water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets and bridges)
that are located in flood-prone areas;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a special
flood hazard area.
(Ord. passed 6-6-2005)
§ 151.05  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure, which is located
on the same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which
is incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports and
storage sheds are common urban ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. Pole barns, hay sheds and
the like qualify as accessory structures on farms, and may or may not be
located on the same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated Zone AO on a community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from one to
three feet. These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does not
exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate and where
velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination as published in the flood
insurance study of the water surface elevations of the base flood. This
elevation, when combined with the freeboard, establishes the regulatory flood
protection elevation.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or the supporting foundation system.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CAMA. North Carolina’s Coastal Area Management Act. This act, being G.S. §§
113A-100 et seq., along with the Dredge and Fill Law, being G.S. §§ 13-229 and
the Federal Coastal Zone Management Act, is managed through the state’s
Department of Environment and Natural Resources (NCDENR), Division of Coastal
Management (DCM).
   CBRS. Coastal Barrier Resources System.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES SYSTEM (CBRS). Consists of undeveloped portions of
coastal and adjoining areas established by the Coastal Barrier Resources Act
(CoBRA) of 1982 being Pub. Law No. 97-348, the Coastal Barrier Improvement Act
(CBIA) of 1990 being Pub. Law No. 101-591, and subsequent revisions, and
includes areas owned by federal or state governments or private conservation
organizations identified as otherwise protected areas (OPA).
   COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA. A special flood hazard area extending from
offshore to the inland limit of a primary frontal dune along an open coast and
any other area subject to high velocity wave action from storms or seismic
sources. The area is designated on a FIRM, or other adopted flood map as
determined in §
151.07 of this chapter, as Zones VE or V1-30.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DISPOSAL. Defined as in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6).
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its reference level
raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings or columns.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain, which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the original effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map of a community,
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which the special flood
hazard areas and the floodways are delineated. This official map is a
supplement to and shall be used in conjunction with the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM).
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the special
flood hazard areas have been defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the special flood hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation and determination of
flood hazard areas, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate),
flood insurance risk zones and other flood data in a community issued by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. The FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY report includes
flood insurance rate maps (FIRMs) and flood boundary and floodway maps (FBFMs),
if published.
   FLOOD-PRONE AREA. See FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood-control works, floodplain management
regulations and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state or local regulations, in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures, which reduce or eliminate risk of flood
damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation
facilities or structures with their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a flood hazard boundary map or
flood insurance rate map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   FREEBOARD. The height added to the base flood elevation (BFE) to account for
watershed development as well as limitations of the engineering methodologies
for the determination of flood elevations. The FREEBOARD, plus the base flood
elevation, establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, such as a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. A facility for the collection, storage,
processing, treatment, recycling, recovery or disposal of hazardous waste, as
defined in G.S. Ch. 130A, Art. 9.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks in
communities with a “certified local government (CLG) program”; or
      (4)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a “certified local government
(CLG) program”. Certified local government (CLG) programs are approved by the
U.S. Department of the Interior in cooperation with the state’s Department of
Cultural Resources, through the state’s Historic Preservation Officer, as
having met the requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966,
as amended in 1980.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The elevation of the ground, sidewalk or patio
slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion of the
building. For Zones A and AO, use the natural grade elevation prior to
construction.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The subfloor, top of slab or grade of the lowest enclosed area
(including basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely
for parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage in an area other
than a basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided
that, such an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation
of the applicable non- elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land value and that of any
accessory structures or other improvements on the lot, established by
independent certified appraisal, replacement cost depreciated by age of
building and quality of construction (actual cash value) or adjusted tax
assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the NFIP, the National Geodetic Vertical
Datum (NGVD) as corrected in 1929, the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) as
corrected in 1988, or other vertical control datum used as a reference for
establishing varying elevations within the floodplain, to which base flood
elevations (BFEs) shown on a FIRM are referenced. Refer to each FIRM panel to
determine datum used.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the original version of this chapter and
includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NON-CONFORMING BUILDING OR DEVELOPMENT. Any legally existing building or
development which fails to comply with the current provisions of this chapter.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot
as designated in the Flood Insurance Study report.
   OPA. An otherwise protected area.
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development which started on or after the
effective date of the initial flood insurance rate map for the area.
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development which started before the
effective date of the initial flood insurance rate map for the area.
   PRIMARY FRONTAL DUNE. A continuous or nearly continuous mound or ridge of
sand with relatively steep seaward and landward slopes immediately landward and
adjacent to the beach and subject to erosion and over-topping from high tides
and waves during major coastal storms. The inland limit of the PRIMARY FRONTAL
DUNE occurs at the point where there is a distinct change from a relatively
steep slope to a relatively mild slope.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND/OR NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle, which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Not designed for use as a permanent primary dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REFERENCE LEVEL. The portion of a structure or other development that must
be compared to the regulatory flood protection elevation to determine
regulatory compliance. For structures within all special flood hazard areas,
the REFERENCE LEVEL is the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member or
bottom of lowest attendant utility including ductwork, whichever is lower.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The elevation, in relation to mean
sea level, to which the reference level of all structures and other development
located within special flood hazard areas must be protected. Where base flood
elevations (BFEs) have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE, plus
at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its non-compliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the
ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during any ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any non-residential property used for the storage, collection
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including, but not limited to,
vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35).
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. Defined as in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36).
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of being flooded in any given year as determined in §
151.07 of this chapter.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued; provided, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or other improvement
was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure (including a manufactured
home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings, installation of
piles, construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or
the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction
does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor
does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it
include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the
erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home or a gas or
liquid storage tank that is principally above ground. For floodplain management
purposes, principally above ground means that at least 51% of the actual cash
value of the structure is above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any one year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the START OF CONSTRUCTION of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred SUBSTANTIAL
DAMAGE, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure; provided that, the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in §§
151.25 through
151.29 and §§
151.40 through
151.43 of this chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to mean sea level
(existing grade in case of Zone AO), of floods of various magnitudes and
frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. passed 6-6-2005)
§ 151.06  LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction, including extra- territorial jurisdictions (ETJ) if applicable,
of the town and within the jurisdiction of any other community whose governing
body agrees, by resolution, to such applicability.
(Ord. passed 6-6-2005)
§ 151.07  BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   The special flood hazard areas are those identified by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or produced under the cooperating technical
state (CTS) agreement between the state and FEMA in its flood hazard boundary
map (FHBM) or flood insurance study (FIS) and its accompanying flood maps such
as the flood insurance rate map(s) (FIRM) and/or the flood boundary floodway
map(s) (FBFM), for the town provided by FEMA dated  3-16-2005 (preliminary) or
later, which, with accompanying supporting data, and any revision thereto,
including letters of map amendment or revision, are adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter. The special flood hazard areas also
include those defined through standard engineering analysis for private
developments or by governmental agencies, but which have not yet been
incorporated in the FIRM.
   (B)   This includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Detailed flood data generated as a requirement of §
151.40(B)(11) and (B)(12) of this chapter;
      (2)   Preliminary FIRMs where more stringent than the effective FIRM; or
      (3)   Post-disaster flood recovery maps.
(Ord. passed 6-6-2005)
§ 151.08  COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. passed 6-6-2005)
§ 151.09  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions.
   (B)   However, where this chapter and another ordinance conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 6-6-2005)
§ 151.10  INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit, nor repeal, any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. passed 6-6-2005)
§ 151.11  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be
increased by human-made or natural causes.
   (B)   This chapter does not imply that land outside the special flood hazard
areas or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood
damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the town or by
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance
on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. passed 6-6-2005)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.25  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements below the regulatory
flood protection elevation shall be constructed with materials and utility
equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
   (D)   (1)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding.
      (2)   These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water
softener units, bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/
boxes, utility/cable boxes, appliances (washers, dryers, refrigerators,
freezers and the like), hot water heaters and electric outlets/switches.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure,
which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
   (I)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
chapter, and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-encroachment
area or stream setback; provided that, the bulk of the building or structure
below the regulatory flood protection elevation in the floodway, non-
encroachment area or stream setback is not increased; and, provided that, such
repair, reconstruction or replacement meets all of the other requirements of
this chapter.
   (J)    A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or flood- proofed to at least the
regulatory flood protection elevation and certified according to §
151.41(D) of this chapter.
   (K)   The establishment of new solid waste disposal facilities, hazardous
waste management facilities, salvage yards and chemical storage facilities is
not subject to the variance procedures of this chapter.
 
   (L)   All development proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (M) All development proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (N)   All development proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
(Ord. passed 6-6-2005)
§ 151.26  SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in §§
151.07 or
151.40(B)(11) and (B)(12) of this chapter, the following provisions, in
addition to §
151.25 of this chapter, are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
151.05 of this chapter.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other non-residential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
151.05 of this chapter. Structures located in A, AO, AE and A1-30 Zones may be
flood-proofed to the regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of
elevation; provided that, all areas of the structure below the required flood
protection elevation are water-tight with walls substantially impermeable to
the passage of water, using structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. A
registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the standards
of this division (B) are satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to the
official as set forth in §
151.41(D) of this chapter, along with the operational and maintenance plans.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   New or replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that the
reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory flood
protection elevation, as defined in §
151.05 of this chapter.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement in
accordance with the State of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured/Mobile
Homes, 1995 Edition, and any revision thereto adopted by the Commissioner of
Insurance pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15 or a certified engineered foundation.
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36
inches or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by
reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is
above 36 inches in height, an engineering certification is required.
      (3)   All foundation enclosures or skirting shall be in accordance with
division (D) below.
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood-prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
   (D)   Elevated buildings. Enclosed areas, of new construction or
substantially improved structures, which are below the regulatory flood
protection elevation:
      (1)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall only
be used for parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door) or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be partitioned or finished into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
      (2)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials below
the regulatory flood protection elevation;
      (3)   Shall include, in Zones A, AO, AE and A1-30, measures to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of flood waters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the
following minimum design criteria;
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings must be at least one square
inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (c)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each area must
have openings to allow flood waters to automatically enter and exit;
         (d)   The bottom of all required openings shall be no higher than one
foot above the adjacent grade;
         (e)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other opening
coverings or devices; provided, they permit the automatic flow of flood waters
in both directions; and
         (f)   Foundation enclosures made of flexible skirting are not
considered enclosures for regulatory purposes and, therefore, do not require
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires openings as outlined above.
      (4)   Shall allow, in Coastal High Hazard Areas (Zones VE and V1-30),
breakaway walls, latticework or insect screening below the regulatory flood
protection elevation; provided, it is not part of the structural support of the
building and is designed so as to breakaway, under abnormally high tides or
wave action, without causing damage to the structural integrity of the building
on which they are to be used; provided, the following design specifications are
met:
         (a)   Material shall consist of open wood latticework or insect
screening; or
         (b)   Breakaway walls shall meet the following design specifications:
            1.   Design safe loading resistance of each wall shall be not less
than ten, nor more than 20, pounds per square foot; or
            2.   Breakaway walls that exceed a design safe loading resistance
of more than 20 pounds per square foot (either by design or when so required by
state or local codes) shall be certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect certifying that the designed wall will collapse from a water load
less than that which would occur during the base flood event, and the elevated
portion of the building and supporting foundation system shall not be subject
to collapse, displacement or other structural damage due to the effects of wind
and water loads acting simultaneously on all building components (structural
and non-structural). The water loading values used shall be those associated
with the base flood. The wind loading values used shall be those required by
the state’s Building Code.
   (E)   Additions/improvements.
      (1)   Additions and/or improvements to pre- FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more non-
conforming than the existing structure; or
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (2)   Additions to post-FIRM structures with no modifications to the
existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall shall require
only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
      (3)   Additions and/or improvements to post- FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction; or
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (4)   Where a fire wall or independent perimeter load-bearing wall is
provided between the addition and the existing building, the addition shall be
considered a separate building and only the addition must comply with the
standards for new construction.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles placed on-sites within a
special flood hazard area shall either:
      (1)   Be on-site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully
licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is ready for highway
use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities, and has no permanently attached additions); or
      (2)   Meet all the requirements for new construction, including anchoring
and elevation requirements of §§
151.25, 151.26(C) and 151.41(B) through (D) of this chapter.
   (G)   Temporary non-residential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, applicants must submit
to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure in the
event of a hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood warning notification.
The following information shall be submitted in writing to the Floodplain
Administrator for review and written approval:
      (1)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified should be minimal with total time on-site not to
exceed one year;
      (2)   The name, address and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      (3)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
      (4)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with a trucking
company to ensure the availability of removal equipment when needed; and
      (5)   Designation, accompanied by documentation of a location outside the
special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   (H)   Accessory structures. When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages and the like) are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, the
following criteria shall be met:
      (1)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
 
      (2)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
      (3)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
      (4)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of flood
waters;
      (5)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with §
151.25(A) of this chapter;
      (6)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with §
151.25(D) of this chapter;
      (7)   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below regulatory flood protection elevation in conformance with §
151.26(D)(1) of this chapter; and
      (8)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square feet
that satisfies the criteria outlined above does not require an elevation or
flood- proofing certificate. Elevation or flood-proofing certifications are
required for all other accessory structures in accordance with §
151.41(D) of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-6-2005)
§ 151.27  STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   Within the special flood hazard areas established in §
151.07 of this chapter, where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been
provided by FEMA, the following provisions, in addition to §
151.25, shall apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20 feet
each side from top of bank or five times the width of the stream, whichever is
greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
   (B)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection elevation
shall be determined based on one of the following criteria set in priority
order.
      (1)   If base flood elevation (BFE) data is available from other sources,
all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas shall also
comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be elevated or
flood-proofed in accordance with standards in §
151.40(B)(11) and (B)(12) of this chapter.
      (2)   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals located within special flood hazard areas shall provide base flood
elevation (BFE) data if development is greater than five acres or has more than
50 lots/manufactured home sites. Such base flood elevation (BFE) data shall be
adopted by reference per §
151.07 of this chapter to be utilized in implementing this chapter.
      (3)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
federal, state or other source as outlined above, the reference level shall be
elevated at least to highest above highest adjacent grade as stated in the
regulatory flood protection elevation definition.
(Ord. passed 6-6-2005)
§ 151.28  STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BFE BUT WITHOUT ESTABLISHED
FLOODWAYS OR NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Along rivers and streams where BFE data is provided, but neither floodway
nor non-encroachment areas are identified for a special flood hazard area on
the FIRM or in the FIS report, the following requirements shall apply to all
development within such areas:
   (A)   Standards outlined in §§
151.25 and
151.26 of this chapter; and
   (B)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or other development, shall be permitted unless certification with
supporting technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point
within the community.
(Ord. passed 6-6-2005)
§ 151.29  FLOODWAYS AND NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   (A)   Areas designated as floodways or non- encroachment areas are located
within the special flood hazard areas established in §
151.07 of this chapter. The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely
hazardous areas due to the velocity of flood waters that have erosion potential
and carry debris and potential projectiles.
   (B)   The following provisions, in addition to standards outlined in §§
151.25 and
151.26 of this chapter, shall apply to all development within such areas.
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless it has been
demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance
with standard engineering practice that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood. Such certification and technical data shall be presented to the
Floodplain Administrator prior to issuance of floodplain development permit.
      (2)   If §
151.29(A) of this chapter is satisfied, all development shall comply with all
applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except replacement
manufactured homes in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision;
provided, the following provisions are met:
         (a)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of §
151.26(C) of this chapter; and
         (b)   The no encroachment standard of §
151.29(A) of this chapter are met.
(Ord. passed 6-6-2005)
ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT,
LEGAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.40  DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The town’s Chief Building Inspector or his or her designee,
hereinafter referred to as the Floodplain Administrator, is hereby appointed to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and any county
municipal interlocal agreements.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits
for all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that
the requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Advise permittee that additional federal or state permits
(wetlands, endangered species, erosion and sedimentation control, CAMA,
riparian buffers, mining and the like) may be required, and require that copies
of such permits be provided and maintained on file with the floodplain
development permit;
      (3)   Notify adjacent communities and the state’s Department of Crime
Control and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator
for the National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation
of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA);
      (4)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (5)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas
unless the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
151.28 of this chapter are met;
      (6)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
reference level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
151.41(D) of this chapter;
      (7)   Obtain the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to
which the new or substantially improved structures and all utilities have been
flood- proofed, in accordance with §
151.41(D) of this chapter;
      (8)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all
public utilities in accordance with §
151.41(D) of this chapter;
      (9)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with §§
151.26(B) and 151.41(D) of this chapter;
      (10)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the special flood hazard areas (for example, where there appears
to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions), make
the necessary interpretation. The person contesting the location of the
boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation
as provided in this subchapter;
      (11)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with §
151.07 of this chapter, obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood
elevation (BFE) data, along with floodway data or non-encroachment area data
available from a federal, state or other source, including data developed
pursuant to §
151.27(B)(2) of this chapter, in order to administer the provisions of this
chapter;
      (12)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided, but no floodway
nor non-encroachment area data has been provided in accordance with §
151.07 of this chapter, obtain, review and reasonably utilize any floodway data
or non- encroachment area data available from a federal, state or other source
in order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
      (13)   When the exact location of boundaries of the special flood hazard
areas conflict with the current, natural topography information at the site,
the property owner may apply and be approved for a letter of map amendment
(LOMA) by FEMA. Maintain a copy of the letter of map amendment (LOMA) issued by
FEMA in the floodplain development permit file;
      (14)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the
administration of this chapter and make these records available for public
inspection;
      (15)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant
to a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator
shall make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that
the work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and
the terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator
has a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
      (16)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing the work. The stop-work order shall state the specific work to
be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage and the condition(s) under
which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop- work order constitutes a
misdemeanor;
      (17)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply
with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked;
      (18)   Make periodic inspections throughout all special flood hazard
areas within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator
and each member of his or her Inspections Department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the Department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
      (19)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
151.42 of this chapter; and
      (20)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to,
the FIS report, FIRM and/or other official flood maps/studies adopted under §
151.07(B) of this chapter, including any revisions thereto including letters of
map change, issued by state and/or FEMA. Notify state and FEMA of mapping
needs.
(Ord. passed 6-6-2005)
§ 151.41  FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit required. A floodplain development permit shall be required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of
any development activities within special flood hazard areas as determined in §
151.07 of this chapter.
   (B)   Application requirements. Application for a Floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within special flood hazard areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
      (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities and
other development;
         (b)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
151.07 of this chapter, or a statement that the entire lot is within the
special flood hazard area;
         (c)   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
151.07 of this chapter;
         (d)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in §
151.07 of this chapter;
         (e)   The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in §§
151.07,
151.40(B)(11) and (B)(12) or
151.27 of this chapter;
         (f)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
         (g)   Certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer.
      (2)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a
special flood hazard area including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed
reference level (including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure in Zone AE, A or AO will be flood-proofed; and
         (c)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or flood-proofed.
      (3)   If flood-proofing, a flood-proofing certificate (FEMA Form 81-65) 
along with detailed back-up computations and operational plans that specify the
location on a FIRM panel of flood- proofing measures, the entity responsible
for transportation and installation according to the design within the warning
time available, and maintenance of flood-proofing measures assuring their
effectiveness when installed. Flood-proofing certificate and back-up
computations and operational plans shall be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect to ensure that the non-residential flood-
proofed development will meet the flood-proofing criteria in §
151.26(B) of this chapter.
      (4)   A foundation plan drawn to scale which shall include details of the
proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are met.
These details include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
         (b)   Openings to facilitate equalization of hydrostatic flood forces
on walls in accordance with §
151.26(D) of this chapter, when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in
Zones A, AO, AE and A1-30.
      (5)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the regulatory flood
protection elevation;
      (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (7)   Copies of all other local, state and federal permits required prior
to floodplain development permit issuance (wetlands, endangered species,
erosion and sedimentation control, CAMA, riparian buffers, mining and the
like);
      (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure §
151.26(F) and (G) of this chapter are met; and
      (9)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
   (C)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      (1)   A description of the development to be permitted under the
floodplain development permit;
      (2)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development per available data specified in §
151.07 of this chapter;
      (3)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities;
      (4)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities;
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines;
      (6)   A statement that no fill material shall encroach into the floodway
or non-encroachment area of any watercourse, as applicable;
      (7)   The minimum opening requirements, if in Zone A, AO, AE or A1-30;
and
      (8)   Limitations of below BFE enclosure uses, if applicable  (i.e.,
parking, building access and limited storage only).
   (D)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Elevation certificates.
         (a)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is required prior to
the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit
holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the
elevation of the reference level, in relation to mean sea level. Elevation
certification shall be prepared by, or under direct supervision of, a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same. The
Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted.
Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder
prior to the beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or
failure to make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain
development permit.
         (b)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) or flood-proofing
certificate (FEMA Form 81-65) is required after the reference level is
established. Within seven calendar days of establishment of the reference level
elevation, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of the reference
level, in relation to mean sea level. Elevation certification shall be prepared
by, or under the direct supervision of, a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer and certified by same. Any work done within the seven-day
calendar period and prior to submission of the certification shall be at the
permit holder’s risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate
data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to further progressive work being permitted
to proceed. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required
corrections shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
         (c)   A final as-built elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is
required after construction is completed and prior to certificate of
compliance/ occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of final as-built
construction of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities. Elevation certification shall be prepared by, or under the direct
supervision of, a registered land surveyor or professional engineer and
certified by same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate
data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/ occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as- built construction. Failure to submit the certification or
failure to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of
a certificate of compliance/ occupancy.
      (2)   Flood-proofing certificate. If non- residential flood-proofing is
used to meet the regulatory flood protection elevation requirements, a flood-
proofing certificate (FEMA Form 81-65) is required prior to the actual start of
any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the flood-proofed design
elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to
mean sea level. Flood-proofing certification shall be prepared by or under the
direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by
same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted.
Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder
prior to the beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or
failure to make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain
development permit. Failure to construct in accordance with the certified
design shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a certificate of compliance/
occupancy.
      (3)   Foundation certification. If a manufactured home is placed within
Zone A, AO, AE or A1-30 and the elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches
in height above grade, an engineered foundation certification is required per §
151.26(C) of this chapter.
      (4)   Other submissions. If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated,
a description of the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; an
engineering report on the effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying
capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties located both upstream
and downstream; and a map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior
to issuance of a floodplain development permit.
      (5)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located
within Zone A, AO, AE or A1-30, are exempt from the elevation/flood-proofing
certification requirements specified in divisions (D)(1) and (D)(2) above:
         (a)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
151.26(F)(1) of this chapter;
         (b)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
151.26(G) of this chapter; and
         (c)   Accessory structures less than 150 square feet meeting
requirements of §
151.26(H) of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-6-2005)
§ 151.42  CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law pertaining to
his, her or their property.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action.  If the owner
of a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner’s last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      (1)   The building or property is in violation of the flood damage
prevention ordinance;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at a
designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   Following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue an
order to alter, vacate or demolish the building or to remove fill as appears
appropriate.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of the flood damage prevention
ordinance, he or she shall issue an order in writing to the owner, requiring
the owner to remedy the violation within a specified time period, not less than
60 days, nor more than 90 days. Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that
there is imminent danger to life or other property, he or she may order that
corrective action be taken in such lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the Clerk within ten days
following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order
of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body shall
hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm or
revoke the order.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished at the
discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 6-6-2005)
§ 151.43  VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The town’s Planning Board as established by the Board of
Commissioners, hereinafter referred to as the “Appeal Board”, shall hear and
decide requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter in areas
not governed by municipalities. The Board of Commissioners or its designees
will be the first appeal authority for those applicants within county
municipalities or their ETJs (extra-territorial jurisdictions).
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal
such decision to the Court, as provided in G.S. Ch. 7A.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      (2)   Functionally dependant facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
151.05 of this chapter; and
      (3)   Any other type of development; provided, it meets the requirements
stated in this section.
   (D)   In passing upon variances, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under §
151.05 of this chapter as a functionally dependant facility, where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (G)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or non-
encroachment area if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
   (H)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state or local laws, regulations or
ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (4)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and a written statement that
the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk
resulting from the reduced reference level elevation. Such notification shall
be maintained with a record of all variance actions.
      (5)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and the state upon request.
(Ord. passed 6-6-2005)
§ 151.44  EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION ORDINANCE.
   This chapter in part comes forward by re- enactment of some of the
provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted 9-16-1988, as
amended, and it is not the intention to repeal, but rather to re-enact and
continue to enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so that
all rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be
enforced. The enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit or
proceeding instituted or pending. All provisions of the flood damage prevention
ordinance of the town enacted on 9-16-1988, as amended, which are not reenacted
herein are repealed.
(Ord. passed 6-6-2005)
§ 151.45  EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size or designated use of any development or any part thereof for
which a floodplain development permit has been granted by the Floodplain
Administrator or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of
this chapter (6-6-2005); provided, however, that, when construction is not
begun under such outstanding permit within a period of six months subsequent to
the date of issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-6-2005)
§ 151.46  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter became effective 7-1-2005.
(Ord. passed 6-6-2005)
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $50
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the town from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed 6-6-2005)
CHAPTER 152:  UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Title
   
152.002   Authority
   
152.003   Effective date
   
152.004   Applicability and jurisdiction
   
152.005   Purpose
   
152.006   Conformance with adopted plans
   
152.007   General rules of interpretation
   
152.008   Conflicting provisions
   
152.009   Official zoning map
   
152.010   Transitional provisions
   
152.011   Severability
   
152.012   Definitions
Administrative Bodies
   
152.025   Administrative bodies generally
   
152.026   Summary of review and decision responsibilities
   
152.027   Town Board of Commissioners
   
152.028   Planning Board
   
152.029   Board of Adjustment
   
152.030   Ordinance Administrator
Common Review Procedures
   
152.045   General
   
152.046   Application requirements
   
152.047   Fees
   
152.048   Public notice
   
152.049   Public hearings
   
152.050   Conditions of approval
   
152.051   Deferral of application
   
152.052   Changes to application after notice of public hearing
   
152.053   Withdrawal of application
   
152.054   Notification to applicant
   
152.055   Lapse of approval
   
152.056   Examination of applications and supporting documents
Development Applications
   
152.070   General
   
152.071   Official zoning map amendment
   
152.072   Text amendment
   
152.073   Special use permit
   
152.074   Variance
   
152.075   Site plan
   
152.076   Subdivisions
   
152.077   Zoning permits
   
152.078   Zoning certificate of compliance
   
152.079   Ordinance interpretation
   
152.080   Appeal of administrative decisions
   
152.081   Establishment of vested rights
Enforcement Procedures
   
152.095   Purpose
   
152.096   Compliance required
   
152.097   Violations
   
152.098   Responsible persons
   
152.099   Enforcement generally
Non-Conformities
   
152.110   General applicability
   
152.111   Non-conforming uses
   
152.112   Non-conforming structures
   
152.113   Non-conforming lots of record
   
152.114   Non-conforming signs
   
152.115   Non-conforming site features
Zoning
   
152.130   Zoning districts established
   
152.131   General use districts
   
152.132   Overlay districts
   
152.133   General lot requirements
   
152.134   Dimensional standards
Use Standards
   
152.145   Use table
   
152.146   Accessory dwelling unit
   
152.147   Adult entertainment
   
152.148   Ambulance/EMS stations
   
152.149   Assisted living/nursing facilities
   
152.150   Auction houses
   
152.151   Automobile repair and service centers
   
152.152   Automobile sales, rental and leasing
   
152.153   Banks and credit unions
   
152.154   Bars, nightclubs and similar establishments
   
152.155   Bed and breakfast inns
   
152.156   Boarding and rooming houses
   
152.157   Car washes
   
152.158   Carnivals, circuses and fairs
   
152.159   Churches/religious institutions
   
152.160   Contractors office (with outside storage)
   
152.161   Convenience stores (with gasoline sales)
   
152.162   Country clubs
   
152.163   Crematoriums
   
152.164   Day care centers
   
152.165   Drug stores and pharmacies (no drive-through service)
   
152.166   Dry cleaners
   
152.167   Dwellings
   
152.168   Equipment rental, leasing and repair
   
152.169   Family care home
   
152.170   Farm and agricultural supplies, retail
   
152.171   Farm equipment sales and service
   
152.172   Fire stations
   
152.173   Flea markets and swap meets
   
152.174   Fuel oil sales, retail
   
152.175   Funeral homes (no crematory services)
   
152.176   Gasoline sales, retail (no repair or service facilities)
   
152.177   Golf driving range
   
152.178   Government offices
   
152.179   Group care facility
   
152.180   Home occupations (customary)
   
152.181   Insurance agencies (with on-site claims inspections)
   
152.182   Kennels, commercial
   
152.183   Laundromats
   
152.184   Libraries
   
152.185   Livestock
   
152.186   Manufactured home park
   
152.187   Manufactured home sales, new
   
152.188   Portable self storage containers
   
152.189   Post offices
   
152.190   Restaurants (no drive-through service)
   
152.191   Schools
   
152.192   Seasonal sales (Christmas trees, pumpkins and the like)
   
152.193   Self storage facilities
   
152.194   Shooting ranges
   
152.195   Swimming pools
   
152.196   Tattoo and body piercing establishment
   
152.197   Temporary construction trailers
   
152.198   Truck stops
   
152.199   Vending stations, unmanned
   
152.200   Wholesale agricultural sales
   
152.201   Wireless telecommunication facilities
Fences and Walls
   
152.215   Applicability
   
152.216   General requirements
   
152.217   Height requirements
   
152.218   Perimeter fences and walls abutting public rights-of-way
   
152.219   Visibility clearance
   
152.220   Prohibited fences
   
152.221   Appearance of fences and walls
Outdoor Lighting
   
152.235   Purpose
   
152.236   Applicability
   
152.237   Exemptions
   
152.238   Design standards for exterior lighting
   
152.239   Wall-mounted lights
   
152.240   Floodlights and spotlights
   
152.241   Illumination of outdoor sports fields and performance areas
   
152.242   Sign lighting
Noise
   
152.255   Loudspeakers prohibited
Landscaping, Buffers and Screening
   
152.270   Intent and purpose
   
152.271   General landscaping requirements
   
152.272   Street yards
   
152.273   Street trees
   
152.274   Parking lot landscaping
   
152.275   Foundation plantings
   
152.276   Buffers
   
152.277   Riparian buffers
   
152.278   Screening
Monumental Tree Preservation
   
152.290   Purpose
   
152.291   Applicability
   
152.292   Exemptions
   
152.293   Preservation of monumental trees and monumental tree stands required
   
152.294   Criteria for determining monumental trees and monumental tree stands
   
152.295   Monumental tree survey
   
152.296   Tree preservation and protection plan
   
152.297   Review by Planning Board
   
152.298   Preservation required
   
152.299   Tree protection during construction
Off-Street Parking, Loading and Stacking
   
152.310   Purpose
   
152.311   Applicability
   
152.312   Exemptions
   
152.313   General requirements for off-street parking, loading and stacking
areas
   
152.314   Off-street parking standards
   
152.315   Loading area standards
   
152.316   Stacking space standards
   
152.317   Pedestrian and bicycle facilities
Sign Regulations
   
152.330   Purpose and intent
   
152.331   Applicability
   
152.332   Exempt signs
   
152.333   Prohibited signs
   
152.334   General sign provisions
   
152.335   Signs permitted with a zoning permit
Subdivision Standards
   
152.350   Design
   
152.351   Reasonable relationship
   
152.352   Off-site connections
   
152.353   Land suitability
   
152.354   Placement of monuments
   
152.355   Property owners’ associations
   
152.356   Lot dimensions and standards
   
152.357   Streets
   
152.358   Sidewalks
   
152.359   Utilities
   
152.360   Flood damage prevention
   
152.361   Subdivision plat content standards
   
152.362   Required subdivision plat certifications
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001  TITLE.
   This document shall officially be known as the “Unified Development
Ordinance of the Town of Kenansville, North Carolina” and may be referred to
throughout the document as the “UDO” or the “chapter”.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.002  AUTHORITY.
   This chapter consolidates the town’s land use regulatory authority as
authorized by the state’s General Statutes and is adopted pursuant to the
authority granted to the town by G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 19, and any special
legislation enacted for the town by the state’s General Assembly.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.003  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter became effective on 3-6-2018.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.004  APPLICABILITY AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   General applicability. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to
the use and development of all land within the corporate limits of the town and
its extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ) unless such use or development is
expressly exempted by a specific section or division of this chapter.
   (B)   Application to governmental units. Except as stated herein, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply to:
      (1)   Development and use of land owned by the town;
      (2)   Development and use of land by public colleges or universities;
      (3)   State and county buildings in accordance with the standards set
forth in G.S. § 160A-392; and
      (4)   To the full extent permitted by law, the development and use of
land owned or held in tenancy by the government of the United States.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.005  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety
and general welfare of the citizens and landowners of the town and to implement
the policies and objectives of the Future Land Use Plan.
   (B)   The intent of this chapter is more specifically to:
      (1)   Preserve the overall quality of life for residents of the town;
      (2)   Protect the character and quality of established residential
neighborhoods;
      (3)   Maintain economically vibrant and aesthetically attractive
commercial areas;
      (4)   Promote economic development and expand the range of employment
opportunities for the citizens of the town;
      (5)   Lessen congestion and ensure safe and functional streets through
the provision of an interconnected street network;
      (6)   Promote pedestrian and non-vehicular transportation;
      (7)   Preserve the natural resources and environmental quality of the
town and its environs;
      (8)   Ensure the provision of adequate light, air and open space;
      (9)   Ensure the availability of a range of housing options; and
      (10)   Provide for the timely provision of public facilities and services
in conjunction with future development.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.006  CONFORMANCE WITH ADOPTED PLANS.
   The Kenansville 2020 Future Land Use Plan shall serve as the basic policy
guide for the administration of this chapter. The Future Land Use Plan serves
as the statement of the goals and policies guiding the physical development of
the town and its environs. All development within the jurisdiction of this
chapter shall be in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Future Land
Use Plan as adopted or amended by the town’s Board of Commissioners as well as
any other relevant plans that have been adopted by the town.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.007  GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Literal interpretation. The language of this chapter must be read and
interpreted literally. Regulations contained within this chapter are no more or
less strict than stated.
   (B)   Rules of language and construction. For the purposes of interpreting
the general language and sentence construction of this chapter, the following
rules of construction apply unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
      (1)   Meaning of words. Words listed in §
152.012 of this chapter have the specific meaning assigned, unless the context
expressly indicates another meaning. Words that are not defined are given their
common meaning.
      (2)   Tense. Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
The reverse is also true.
      (3)   Singular and plural. Words used in the singular include the plural.
The reverse is also true.
      (4)   Mandatory terms. The words “shall”, “will”, “must” and “may not”
are mandatory or compulsory in nature, implying an obligation or duty to comply
with the particular provision.
      (5)   Gender. Words used in the male gender include the female gender.
The reverse is also true.
      (6)   Days. Any reference to “days” means calendar days unless otherwise
specified.
      (7)   Reference. Any reference to a subchapter, section or division means
a subchapter, section or division of this chapter, unless otherwise specified.
      (8)   Tables, figures and illustrations. Tables, figures and
illustrations are provided for reference only and do not define or limit the
scope of any provision of this chapter. In case of any difference of meaning or
implication between the text of this chapter and any table, figure or
illustration, the text shall govern.
      (9)   Current versions and citations. All references to other town,
county, state or federal regulations in this chapter are intended to be
references to the most current versions and citations, unless otherwise
expressly indicated. When referenced regulations have been repealed and not
replaced by other regulations, requirements for compliance are no longer in
effect.
      (10)   Lists and examples. Unless otherwise expressly indicated, lists of
items or examples that use “including”, “such as” or similar terms are intended
to provide examples only. They are not to be construed as exhaustive lists of
all possibilities.
      (11)   Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring a
specific officer or employee of the town to perform an act or duty, that
provision will be construed as authorizing the officer or employee to delegate
that responsibility to others over whom he has authority. Delegation of
authority is not allowed when the provisions of this chapter expressly prohibit
such delegation.
      (12)   Calculations and rounding. Unless otherwise specified within this
chapter, all calculations that result in a part or fraction of a whole number
must be rounded up to the next highest whole number.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.008  CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Conflict with state or federal regulations. If the provisions of this
chapter are inconsistent with those of the State or Federal Government, the
more restrictive provisions governs. The more restrictive provision is the one
that imposes greater restrictions or more stringent controls. Regardless of any
other provision of this chapter, no land may be developed or used and no
structure may be erected or maintained in violation of any state or federal
regulation.
   (B)   Conflict with local regulations. If the provisions of this chapter are
inconsistent with one another, or if they conflict with provisions found in
other adopted ordinances or regulations of the town, the more restrictive
provision governs. The more restrictive provision is the one that imposes
greater restrictions or more stringent controls.
   (C)   Conflict with private agreements and controls. This chapter is not
intended to repeal, abrogate, annul, impair or interfere with any existing
easements, covenants, deed restrictions, agreements or permits previously
adopted or issued pursuant to law. The town has no responsibility for
monitoring or enforcing private agreements.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.009  OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   Generally. The official zoning map designates the location and
boundaries of the zoning districts established by this chapter. The official
zoning map shall be kept on file with the Town Clerk and is available for
public inspection during normal business hours. The original official version
of the map shall be certified by the Town Clerk, and shall bear the seal of the
town. It shall be the final authority as to the status of the current zoning
district classification of land within the town’s jurisdiction, and shall only
be amended in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Incorporation by reference. The official zoning map is hereby
incorporated by reference and made part of this chapter.
   (C)   Interpretation of district boundaries. The Ordinance Administrator
shall be responsible for interpretations of the official zoning map in
accordance with the following standards.
      (1)   A boundary shown on the map as approximately following the
centerline of a street, highway or alley is construed as following such
centerline.
      (2)   A boundary shown on the map as approximately following the parcel
boundary is construed as following the parcel boundary as it existed at the
time the zoning boundary was established.
      (3)   A boundary shown on the map as approximately following a river,
stream, lake or other watercourse is construed as following the actual
centerline of the watercourse.
      (4)   A boundary shown on the map as approximately following the
corporate limits of the Town is construed as following that boundary.
      (5)   A boundary shown on the map as approximately parallel to, or as an
extension of, a feature described above is construed as being actually parallel
to, or an extension of, the feature.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.010  TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Effect on valid building permits and vested rights. Unless the owner
consents, this chapter does not apply to the completion of the development of
buildings or uses for which either:
      (1)   Building permits have been issued pursuant to G.S. § 160A-417 prior
to the effective date of this chapter so long as the permits remain valid and
unexpired, pursuant to G.S. § 160A-418, and unrevoked, pursuant to G.S. § 160A-
422; or
      (2)   A vested right has been established pursuant to G.S. § 160A-385.1
and such right remains valid and unexpired pursuant to G.S. § 160A-385.1.
   (B)   Other approvals granted prior to the effective date. Variances,
special use permits, subdivision plats, site plans and other similar
development approvals that are valid on the effective date of this chapter will
remain valid until their expiration date if applicable. Development may be
completed in accordance with such approvals even if such building, development
or structure does not fully comply with the provisions of this chapter. If
development is not commenced and diligently pursued in the time allowed under
the original approval or any extension granted, then the building, development
or structure must meet the standards of this chapter in effect at the time of
any re-application.
   (C)   Applications in process prior to effective date. Applications for
building permits, variances, special use permits, subdivision plats, site plan
approvals and other similar development approvals that were submitted in
complete form and are pending approval on the effective date of this chapter
must be reviewed wholly under the terms of this chapter. Any re-application for
an expired approval must meet the standards of this chapter in effect at the
time of re-application.
   (D)   Violations continue. Violations of the previous ordinance which remain
in violation of this chapter will continue to be a violation and be subject to
penalties and enforcement action under §§
152.095 through
152.099 and
152.999 of this chapter. The adoption of this chapter does not affect nor
prevent any pending or future action to abate violations of previous
ordinances.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.011  SEVERABILITY.
   Should any subchapter, section, clause, phrase or word of this chapter be
held invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction of either
the state or the United States, such decision does not affect, impair or
invalidate the validity of the remaining parts of this chapter which can be
given effect without the invalid provision.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.012  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT (OF REAL PROPERTY). A parcel of land, use or structure which has
been physically and objectively discontinued, ceased, relinquished, vacated
and/or not maintained for a consecutive period of 180 or more days.
   ABUTTING. The condition of two adjoining lots having a common property line
or boundary including cases where two or more lots adjoin a corner, but not
including cases where adjoining lots are separated by a street or alley.
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT. A secondary dwelling unit established in
conjunction with and clearly subordinate to a principal dwelling unit, whether
part of the same structure as the principal dwelling unit, or as a detached
structure on the same lot.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure that is subordinate in use and square
footage to a principal structure or permitted use.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use that is customarily incidental, appropriate, and
subordinate to the principal use of land or buildings and is located upon the
same lot.
   ADDITION. An attached structure added to an original structure after the
completion of the original.
   ADJACENT. A lot or parcel of land that shares all or part of a common lot
line or boundary with another lot or parcel of land or that is directly across
a public street or right-of-way.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT. An adult entertainment establishment shall include any
place defined as an “adult establishment” or “sexually oriented establishment”
by G.S. § 14-202.10, including adult cabarets, adult live entertainment
business, or any massage establishment where massages are rendered by any
person exhibiting “specified anatomical areas,” or where massages are performed
on any client’s “specified anatomical areas”. ADULT ENTERTAINMENT
ESTABLISHMENTS may consist of, include or have the characteristics of any or
all of the following:
      (1)   Adult or sexually-oriented bookstore sales and distribution;
      (2)   Adult or sexually-oriented paraphernalia sales and distribution;
      (3)   Adult or sexually-oriented cabaret;
      (4)   Adult or sexually-oriented mini motion picture theater;
      (5)   Adult or sexually-oriented motion picture theater; and
      (6)   Adult retail.
   AGGRIEVED PARTY. A person, with a legally recognized interest (i.e., fee
simple ownership) and standing to appeal, that is injuriously affected by a
decision from any decision-making body of the town, including any officer or
agent of the town.
   ALLEY. A service roadway providing a secondary means of access to abutting
property and not intended for general traffic circulation.
   ALTERATION. Any change or expansion in the size, configuration or location
of a structure; or any change or expansion in the use of a structure or lot,
from a previously approved or legally existing size, configuration, location or
use.
   APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION. An appeal of an administrative decision-
maker’s interpretation or decision reviewed and approved, approved with
conditions or denied by the Board of Adjustment in accordance with §
152.080 of this chapter.
   APPLICANT. The owner of land, or the authorized representative of the
landowner, applying for a development approval or permit.
   APPLICATION. The completed form or forms and all accompanying documents,
exhibits and fees required of an applicant by the appropriate town officer,
board, or commission as part of the development review processes.
   ARCHITECTURAL LIGHTING. Exterior lighting that is designed to highlight
structures, plantings or significant architectural features in a direct or
indirect fashion.
   ASSESSED VALUE. The monetary price that a parcel of land, portion of land,
improvement on land, or other commodity assigned by the County Property
Appraiser’s office for the purposes of taxation.
   ASSISTED LIVING RESIDENCE. Any group housing and services program for two or
more unrelated adults, by whatever name it is called, that makes available, at
a minimum, one meal a day and housekeeping services and provides personal care
services directly or through a formal written agreement with one or more
licensed home care or hospice agencies. ASSISTED LIVING RESIDENCE includes any
nursing service exceptions authorized by the state’s Department of Human
Resources on a case-by-case basis. Settings in which services are delivered may
include self-contained apartment units or single or shared room units with
private or area baths. ASSISTED LIVING RESIDENCES are to be distinguished from
nursing homes subject to provisions of G.S. § 131E-102. There are three types
of ASSISTED LIVING RESIDENCES: adult care homes (family care homes); group
homes (for developmentally disabled adults); and multi-unit assisted housing
with services.
   ATTACHED RESIDENTIAL. Residential development including duplexes, triplexes,
live/work, multi-family and townhouse dwellings.
   AUTHORIZED AGENT. A person with express written consent to act upon
another’s behalf.
   BANNER. A sign made of flexible material used to advertise a business or a
product for sale.
   BAR, NIGHTCLUB or SIMILAR ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment having as its
principal or predominant use the serving of alcohol for consumption on the
premises, and which sets a minimum age requirement for entrance, consistent
with state law. The primary source of revenue for such uses is derived from
alcohol sales and the secondary source from the serving of food. Such uses may
also provide on-site entertainment in the form of live performances, dancing,
billiards or other entertainment activities. Performances related to the
display of specific anatomic areas (as classified by G.S. § 14-202.10) are
considered as “adult entertainment uses”.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. That elevation, expressed in feet above mean sea
level, to which flooding can be expected to occur on a frequency of once in
every 100 years, or which is subject to a one percent or greater chance of
flooding in any given year.
   BED AND BREAKFAST INN. A private residence, generally a single-family
detached dwelling located in a residential district, engaged in renting one or
more dwelling rooms on a daily basis to tourists, vacationers and
businesspeople, where provision of meals is limited to guests only.
   BERM. An elongated earthen mound typically designed or constructed on a site
to separate, screen or buffer adjacent uses.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. A quasi-judicial board appointed by the town’s Board of
Commissioners and the County Commissioners.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. Board of Commissioners of the Town of Kenansville,
North Carolina.
   BUFFER, RIPARIAN. The area of natural or planted vegetation adjacent to a
natural watercourse as measured landward from the normal pool elevation of
impounded structures and from the bank of each side of streams, rivers, lakes,
ponds or wetlands which is intended to remain undisturbed.
   BUILT-UPON AREA. The area of land onto which a structure is planned to be
built or is constructed, including impervious surface.
   BUILDING. A structure that is enclosed and isolated by a roof and exterior
walls and used for shelter, support or enclosure as a residence, business,
industry, or other public or private purpose, or accessory thereto, the
construction of which may require a building permit under the state’s Building
Code.
   BUILDING ENVELOPE. The three-dimensional space within which a structure is
permitted to be built on a lot and that is defined by maximum height
regulations, and minimum yard setbacks or build-to lines, buffers, easements or
other applicable regulations.
   BUILDING FOOTPRINT. The area of a lot or parcel of land included within the
surrounding exterior walls and/or outermost projection of the roof of a
building or portion of a building, exclusive of courtyards.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the main level of the
finished grade along the front of a building to the highest point of the roof
surface of a flat roof, to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the mean
height level between eaves and ridge of gable, hip, cone, gambrel or shed
roofs.
   BUILDING LINE. A line establishing the minimum allowable distance between
the nearest part of any building, excluding porches, bay windows, covered
porches, decks and patios, to the nearest edge of a street right-of-way, lot
line or easement.
   BUILDING MASS. The height, width and depth of a structure.
   BUILDING PERMIT. An official document issued by the county’s Inspections
Department pursuant to this chapter and the state’s Building Code authorizing
the erection, construction, reconstruction, restoration, alteration,
enlargement, conversion, remodeling, demolition, moving or repair of a building
or structure.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the principal use of
the lot on which it is located.
   CALIPER. A horticultural method of measuring the diameter of a tree trunk
for the purpose of determining size. The CALIPER of the trunk is measured six
inches above the ground for trees up to and including four inches in diameter,
12 inches above the ground for trees greater than four inches and up to ten
inches in diameter and at breast height (four and one-half feet) for trees ten
inches or greater in diameter.
   CANOPY. A permanent, but not completely enclosed structure that may be
attached or adjacent to a building for the purpose of providing shelter to
people or automobiles, or a decorative feature on a building wall. A CANOPY is
not a completely enclosed structure.
   CARPORT. A roofed structure not more than 75% enclosed by walls and attached
to the main building for the purpose of providing shelter for one or more motor
vehicles.
   CASUALTY DAMAGE. Damage to a use, lot or structure from an event that is
sudden, unexpected and unusual, such as a hurricane, earthquake, fire, flood,
theft or similar event.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A document issued by the county’s Inspections
Department allowing the occupancy or use of a building and certifying that the
structure or use has been constructed or will be used in compliance with this
chapter and all other applicable regulations.
   CHANGE OF USE. The change in the use of a structure or land, for which a
certificate of occupancy is required. CHANGE OF USE shall include a change from
one use to another use in the list(s) of permitted uses.
   COLLECTOR STREET. A street whose principal function is to carry traffic
between local, subcollector and cul-de-sac streets and streets of higher
classification, but which may provide direct access to abutting properties.
   COLLEGE or UNIVERSITY. A public or private, non-profit institution for post-
secondary education offering courses in general or technical education which
operates on buildings or premises of any tract size owned or leased by the
institution for administrative and faculty offices, classrooms, laboratories,
chapels, auditoriums, lecture halls, libraries, student and faculty centers,
athletic facilities, dormitories, fraternities and sororities, and other
facilities which further the educational mission of the institution.
   COMMENCEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION. The first placement of permanent evidence of a
structure on a site pursuant to a duly issued building permit, such as the
pouring of slabs or footings or any work beyond the stage of excavation,
including the relocation of a structure. COMMENCEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION does not
include the installation of streets or walkways; nor the excavation for a
basement, footings, piers or foundations, or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of temporary buildings,
such as garages, sheds or trailers, not part of the main structure nor occupied
as dwelling units.
   COMMERCIAL RECREATION, INDOOR. A private indoor (entirely within enclosed
structure) use providing for sport and recreation activities, that are operated
or carried on primarily for financial gain. Examples of INDOOR COMMERCIAL
RECREATION uses include, but are not limited to, fitness centers, bowling
alleys, skating rinks, indoor commercial swimming pools and racquet and tennis
club facilities (indoor).
   COMMERCIAL RECREATION, OUTDOOR. A private outdoor use providing facilities
for sport activities, which is operated or carried on primarily for financial
gain, outdoors. Examples of OUTDOOR COMMERCIAL RECREATION uses include, but are
not limited to, miniature golf facilities, outdoor commercial tourist
attractions and privately-owned active sports facilities such as ball fields
and basketball courts and racquet and tennis club facilities (outdoor).
   COMPATIBLE. A term used to describe how the visual aspects of a structure
(including signage) are similar to or consistent with the other structures on
the same parcel, site or in the immediate vicinity. Visual aspects include, but
are not limited to: color; texture; materials; scale; size; form; and aspect.
   CONDOMINIUM. A development containing individually-owned dwelling units and
jointly owned and shared areas and facilities that is subject to the state’s
Unit Ownership Act (G.S. Ch. 47A) and/or the state’s Condominium Act (G.S. Ch.
47C).
   CONNECTIVITY. The relative degree of connection between streets, sidewalks
or other means of travel.
   CONTIGUOUS. Abutting directly or immediately adjacent to a boundary or
separated only by a street, railroad or public utility right-of-way.
   CONTINUOUS VISUAL SCREEN. Screening of vehicular use areas or outside
storage by vegetative material, berms or structures (walls and fences), or a
combination of these items designed to completely obstruct off-site views of
the vehicular use area typically to a height four feet above the adjacent
grade.
   COPY. Any words, letters, numbers, figures, characters, symbols, logos or
insignia that are used on a sign display surface area.
   COUNTY. Duplin County, North Carolina.
   COUNTRY CLUB. Land area and buildings containing golf courses, swimming
pools, tennis courts or similar recreational facilities along with a clubhouse
and customary accessory uses which are open to members and their guests, or to
the general public on a fee basis.
   CREMATORY. A facility containing furnaces for the reduction of dead bodies
to ashes by fire.
   CROSS-ACCESS. Vehicular access provided between the vehicular use areas of
two or more development sites or parcels of land intended to allow travel
between the sites without the use of a public or private street.
   CUL-DE-SAC STREET. A short local street having one end open to traffic and
the other end permanently terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
   DAY CARE. A place where daytime care, supervision and protection is provided
to three or more children or adults who are not the legal wards or foster
children of the attendant adult within an occupied residence.
   DENSITY, GROSS. The number of dwelling units on the entire area of a tract
or lot.
   DENSITY, NET. The number of dwelling units on a tract or lot minus the area
of public rights-of- way, areas of flood hazard, lakes or water bodies or
wetlands under the jurisdiction of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
   DEVELOPER. The legal or beneficial owner or owners of a lot or of any land
included in a proposed development, including the holder of an option or
contract to purchase or other persons having enforceable proprietary interests
in such land.
   DEVELOPMENT. The initiation, construction, change or enlargement of any use
or structure, the disturbance of land through the removal of trees or ground
cover, or the division of land into two or more parcels. DEVELOPMENT shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Construction or enlargement of a building or structure;
      (2)   Change in the type of use of a building, structure or land;
      (3)   Material increase in the intensity of use of land, such as an
increase in the number of businesses, offices, manufacturing establishments or
dwelling units located in a building or structure or on the land;
      (4)   Commencement or expansion of resource extraction, agricultural,
horticultural or forestry activities on a parcel of land;
      (5)   Demolition of a structure or the removal of trees from a parcel of
land;
      (6)   Deposition of refuse, solid or liquid waste or fill on a parcel of
land;
      (7)   Alteration, either physically or chemically, of the shore, bank or
channel of any stream, lake or other body of water or alteration of any
wetland; and
      (8)   Any land disturbing activity that adds to or changes the amount of
impervious or partially impervious cover on a land area or which otherwise
decreases the infiltration of precipitation into the soil.
   DIAMETER AT BREAST HEIGHT (DBH). The measurement of the diameter of a tree
trunk taken at a height of four and one-half feet above the ground. Trees with
multiple trunks should be treated as multiple trees and the DBH for each trunk
added to aggregate diameter measurement.
   DISTRICT. An area delineated on the official zoning map that sets forth
standards and guidelines for all development within the prescribed district.
   DISTRICT, OVERLAY. A zoning district that encompasses one or more underlying
zoning district and that imposes additional requirements above that required by
the underlying zoning district.
   DRIPLINE. A vertical line that extends from the outermost branches of a
tree’s canopy to the ground around the circumference of the tree.
   DRIVE-THROUGH. A facility designed to enable a person to transact business
while remaining in a motor vehicle.
   DRIVEWAY. A vehicular accessway or series of accessways providing ingress
and egress to a use or development from a public street, private street or
vehicular use area associated with another use. Such accessway may be the
primary drive aisle or may be a separate driveway.
   DWELLING or DWELLING UNIT. A building or portion thereof, provides complete
and permanent living facilities for one family. This term shall not apply to a
hotel, motel, guesthouse or other structures designed for transient residence.
   DWELLING, DUPLEX. A single-family dwelling unit attached to one other
single-family dwelling unit by a common vertical wall. Each dwelling unit may
be located on its own lot or both may be located on a single lot.
   DWELLING, LIVE/WORK. A structure or portion of a structure combining a
residential living space for one or more persons with an integrated work space
principally used by one or more of the residents.
   DWELLING, MANUFACTURED HOME, CLASS A. A manufactured home constructed after
7-1-1976, that meet or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the
time of construction and that satisfies the following additional criteria:
      (1)   The manufactured home has a length not exceeding four times its
width, with length measured along the longest axis and width measured at the
narrowest part of the other axis;
      (2)   The manufactured home has a minimum of 1,200 square feet of
enclosed and heated living area;
      (3)   The pitch of the roof of the manufactured home has a minimum
vertical rise of three and two-tenths feet for each 12 feet of horizontal run
and the roof is finished with a type of composition shingle that is commonly
used in standard residential construction;
      (4)   The roof eaves and gable overhangs shall be 12-inch minimum (rain
gutters may be included in the minimum dimensions);
      (5)   The exterior siding consists predominantly of vinyl or aluminum
horizontal lap siding (whose reflectivity does not exceed that of gloss white
paint), wood or hardboard, comparable in composition, appearance, and
durability to the exterior siding commonly used in standard residential
construction;
      (6)   The manufactured home is set up in accordance with the standards
set by the state’s Department of Insurance and a continuous, permanent masonry
foundation or masonry curtain wall, unpierced, except for required ventilation
and access, is installed under the perimeter of the manufactured home;
      (7)   The front entrance to the manufactured home has stairs and a porch,
the porch being at least four feet by six feet in size. Stairs, porches and
entrance platforms, ramps and other means of entrance and exit to and from the
home shall be installed or constructed in accordance with the state’s Building
Code;
      (8)   The moving hitch, wheels and axles, and transporting lights have
been removed;
      (9)   Each manufactured home shall be only for single-family occupancy;
      (10)   A manufactured home shall comply with the Federal Housing
Administration requirements relative to tie downs; and
      (11)   The electrical meters servicing the manufactured home is mounted
(attached) directly to the manufactured home.
   DWELLING, MODULAR. Modular homes are built off-site in pieces and are
designed to meet the state’s Building Code when assembled on a development
site. With advancements in modular home technology, MODULAR HOMES often are
often transported to the building site in only one or two pieces and may appear
similar to a manufactured home prior to installation on a permanent foundation.
MODULAR UNITS are treated as the equivalent of site-built homes for zoning
purposes. State law does set minimum design standards for MODULAR UNITS, and
requires MODULAR UNITS to meet these standards.
      (1)   The pitch of the roof shall be no less than five feet rise for
every 12 feet of run, for homes with a single predominant roofline.
      (2)   The eave projections of the roof shall not be less than ten inches
(excluding roof gutters) unless the roof pitch is 8/12 or greater.
      (3)   The minimum height of the first-story exterior wall must be at
least seven feet six inches.
      (4)   The materials and texture of exterior materials must be compatible
in composition, appearance and durability to the exterior materials commonly
used in standard residential construction.
      (5)   The modular home must be designed to require foundation supports
around the perimeter. (G.S. § 20-109.2)
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A dwelling containing three or more individual
dwelling units, with the units often stacked one above the other in a vertical
configuration, sharing common vertical walls and/or horizontal floors and
ceilings.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED. A residential building containing not more
than one dwelling unit to be occupied by one family, not physically attached to
any other principal structure. For regulatory purposes, this term does not
include manufactured homes, recreational vehicles or other forms of temporary
or portable housing.
   DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE. A type of multi- family dwelling, in which three or
more individual dwelling units are located on individual lots, but attached by
one or more common party walls which are shared by one or more units for more
than 50% of their total linear distance along the lot line.
   DWELLING, UPPER STORY LOFT. An upper story loft is a residential unit
located on second or higher floors of a structure whose ground floor is used
for non-residential purposes.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner of a strip of land for a specified
purposes and use by the public, a corporation or persons, such as for
utilities.
   ENCROACHMENTS. Any portion of a structure or appurtenance extending beyond a
designated zoning setback, easement, property line or public right-of- way.
   ERECT. To build, construct, attach, hang, place, suspend or affix, also
including the painting of wall signs.
   ESTABLISHED GRADE. The finished grade following grading, excavation or other
land-disturbing activity.
   EXISTING DEVELOPMENT. Structures, buildings, site specific development plans
or other projects that are completely built or that at a minimum have
established a vested right as of the effective date of this chapter based on at
least one of the following being satisfactorily proven to the Ordinance
Administrator for the specific development in question:
      (1)   Substantial expenditures of resources (time, labor, money) based on
a good faith reliance upon having received a valid local government approval to
proceed with the development, or
      (2)   Having an outstanding valid building permit as authorized by G.S. §
153A-344.1 and G.S. § 160A-385.1; or
      (3)   Having an approved site specific or phased development plan as
authorized by G.S. §§ 153A-344.1 and 160A-385.1.
   EXPANSION. An increase in the size of an existing structure or use,
including physical size of the property, building, parking and other
improvements or structures.
   EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION. The area outside municipal limits where the
town exercises planning, zoning and subdivision powers.
   FACADE. The exterior wall of a building parallel to the frontage line or the
street that fronts the parcel on which the building is located. FACADES may be
on the front, side or rear elevation of the building.
   FAMILY. An individual, or two or more persons related by blood, marriage or
adoption living together as a single housekeeping unit; or a group of not more
than six persons not related by blood, marriage or adoption living together as
a single housekeeping unit, as in a family care home.
   FAMILY CARE HOME (ADULT CARE HOME). An assisted living residence in which
the housing management provides 24-hour scheduled and unscheduled personal care
services to two to six unrelated residents, either directly or for scheduled
needs, through formal written agreement with licensed home care or hospice
agencies. Some licensed ADULT CARE HOMES provide supervision to persons with
cognitive impairments whose decisions, if made independently, may jeopardize
the safety or well-being of themselves or others and, therefore, require
supervision. Medication in an ADULT CARE HOME may be administered by designated
trained staff. FAMILY CARE HOMES provide room and board, personal care and
habilitation services in a family environment for persons with disabilities.
(G.S. § 168-21, G.S. § 131D-2.1)
   FENCE. A structure used to delineate a boundary or act as a barrier or means
of protection, confinement or screening.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of each floor of
the principal building’ and any accessory buildings or structures, measured
from the exterior walls or from the centerline of party walls. The term does
not include any area used exclusively for the surface parking of motor vehicles
or for building or equipment access, such as stairs, elevator shafts and
maintenance crawl space.
   FOOT CANDLE. The amount of light that falls onto a surface as emitted by an
exterior lighting device.
   FRONT LOT LINE. The front lot line is the line connecting the two side lot
lines along the edge of the lot adjacent to the right-of-way of the street that
provides the lot’s street address. (Also referred to as the LOT FRONTAGE.)
   FULL CUT-OFF LENS. An artificial outdoor lighting fixture designed to ensure
that no light is directly emitted above a horizontal line parallel to the
ground.
   GLARE. The reflection or harsh, bright light and the physical effect
resulting from high luminance or insufficiently shielded light sources to cause
annoyance, discomfort or loss in visual performance and visibility.
   GOLF DRIVING RANGE. A limited area on which golf players do not walk, but
onto which they drive golf balls from a common driving tee. Such uses may
include a concessions stand, netting, exterior lighting fixtures, putting
greens, as well as maintenance and outdoor storage areas. Such uses do not
include golf courses.
   GOVERNMENT OFFICES AND FACILITIES. An office or other facility of a
governmental agency that provides administrative and/or direct services to the
public, such as, but not limited to, town and county administrative offices,
courts, employment offices, public assistance offices, motor vehicle licensing
and registration services, maintenance and repair centers and supply and
equipment depots. This use does not include jails or correctional institutions.
   GRADE. The elevation of the land or land level at a specific point.
   GRADE, STREET. The height of the top of the curb or, if no curb exists, the
height of the edge of pavement in the lane of travel.
   GROUND COVER. Any natural vegetative growth or other material that renders
the soil surface stable against accelerated erosion.
   GROUP CARE FACILITY. (See definition of ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY.) A
facility licensed by the state (called by any name, which is not a “family care
home”, as defined by this chapter) which employs supervisory and support
personnel to provide care for fewer than 30 individuals, including room, board
and personal care and habilitation services in a communal setting.
   HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the mean grade elevation taken at the
fronting street side of a structure to the parapet or roofline of a flat roof,
the eave of a pitched roof, or the deck line of a mansard roof.
   HISTORICAL PLAQUES. Commemorates an event or person of historic interest and
to associate that point of interest with a specific locale one can visit.
HISTORICAL PLAQUES mounted in accordance with the United States Secretary of
the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation are not considered signs.
   HOME OCCUPATION. A business, profession, occupation or trade which is
conducted within a residential dwelling unit for the economic gain or support
of a resident of the dwelling, and is incidental and secondary to the
residential use of the lot and which does not adversely or perceptively affect
the character of the lot or surrounding area. HOME OCCUPATION includes, but is
not limited to: offices; electronic and offsite retail; personal services such
as physical therapy by licensed individuals, beauty parlors, pet grooming and
the like. HOME OCCUPATION does not include such businesses as: automotive
repair and the like; any licensed or unlicensed practitioner who performs
invasive procedures (acupuncture, tattooing, body piercing, and the like);
restaurants, bars, social clubs and the like; animal kennels or hospitals and
the like; or any other business which is clearly inappropriate or out of
character for a residential area such that its location constitutes an adverse
impact on neighboring residential properties.
   HOSPITAL. An institution specializing in giving clinical, temporary and
emergency services of a medical or surgical nature to human patients and
injured persons, that is licensed by state law to provide facilities and
services in surgery, obstetrics or general medical practice. Such institutions
may include in-patient medical or surgical care for the sick or injured and
related facilities such as laboratories, out-patient departments, training
facilities, central services facilities and staff offices that are an integral
part of the facilities.
   HOTELS and MOTELS. Hotel and motel are to be considered synonymous uses. A
HOTEL or MOTEL means a building or a group of buildings in which sleeping
accommodations are offered to the public and intended primarily for rental for
temporary occupancy by persons on an overnight basis, not including bed and
breakfast establishments or a rooming house. Such uses may include microwaves
and refrigerators for each guest unit.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Buildings; parking areas; driveways; streets; sidewalks;
areas of concrete, asphalt, gravel or other compacted aggregate; and areas
covered by the outdoor storage of goods or materials which do not absorb water.
   IMPROVEMENT. Any building, structure, bridge, work of art, area, parking
facility, public facility, fence, gate, wall, landscaping or other object, or
any part thereof, constituting physical addition to real property.
   INDUSTRY, LIGHT. The mechanical transformation of predominantly previously
prepared materials into new products, including assembly of component parts and
the creation of products for sale to the wholesale or retail markets or
directly to consumers. Such uses are wholly confined within an enclosed
building, do not include processing of hazardous gases and chemicals, and do
not emit noxious noise, smoke, vapors, fumes, dust, glare, odor or vibration.
Examples include, but are not limited to: production or repair of small
machines or electronic parts and equipment; woodworking and cabinet building;
publishing and lithography; computer design and development; research,
development, testing facilities and laboratories; apparel production; sign
making; assembly of pre-fabricated parts, manufacture of electric, electronic
or optical instruments or devices; manufacture and assembly of artificial
limbs, dentures, hearing aids and surgical instruments; manufacture,
processing, and packing of food products, cosmetics and manufacturing of
components, jewelry, clothing, trimming decorations and any similar item.
   INTERPRETATION. An interpretation of this chapter made in writing by the
Ordinance Administrator or designee in accordance with the standards in §
152.079 of this chapter.
   INTERMITTENT STREAM. A stream which fails to convey water for some or part
of the year due to fluctuations in season, temperature or humidity.
   KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. A facility where dogs, cats or other domestic animals
over three months of age are kept, raised sold, boarded, bred, shown, treated
or groomed. Such a facility may have an indoor and outdoor component.
   LAND. The earth, water and air, above, below, or on the surface, and
includes any improvements or structures customarily regarded as land.
   LANDOWNER. Any owner of a legal or equitable interest in real property,
including the heirs, devisees, successors, assigns and agent or personal
representative of the owner. The person shown on the records of the Register of
Deeds of the county shall be presumed to be the person in control of the
property.
   LATTICE TOWER. A freestanding steel framework tower with three or four sides
designed to support antennas or other communications equipment.
   LIVE/WORK UNIT. A structure that accommodates both working and living or
housing functions, typically with a retail unit and a dwelling unit.
   LOADING SPACE, OFF-STREET. Space logically and conveniently located for bulk
pickups and deliveries, scaled to delivery vehicles and not considered as part
of the minimum required off-street surface parking.
   LOCAL STREET. A street whose primary function is to provide access to
abutting properties.
   LOT. A parcel of land or any combination of several parcels of land occupied
or intended to be occupied by a principal use or structure, together with any
accessory structures or uses and such accessways, parking area, yards and open
spaces required in these regulations.
   LOT DEPTH. Lot depth means the horizontal distance between the midpoints of
straight lines connecting the front lot line and the rear lot line.
   LOT FRONTAGE. See FRONT LOT LINE.
   LOT LINE. The lines bounding a lot as established by ownership.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat of which has
been recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds prior to 3-2-2009, or a
lot described by metes and bounds recorded prior to the enactment of a
subdivision ordinance within the controlling jurisdiction.
   LOT WIDTH. The distance between the side lot lines measured along a setback
line or build-to line, or, the distance measured between the side lot lines
along the street right-of-way if no setback has been established.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot located at the intersection of two or more streets.
   LOT, FLAG. A lot not meeting minimum frontage requirements and where access
to the public road is by a narrow, private right-of-way or driveway.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot with only one frontage on a
street.
   LOT, IRREGULARLY SHAPED. A lot with three sides, more than four sides, or
with corner angles greater or less than 90 degrees. The front yard of such lots
shall be determined with respect to adjacent homes and street vistas.
   LOT, NON-CONFORMING. A lot that met all legal requirements when it was
platted or otherwise recorded but which does not comply with the minimum lot
area or minimum lot width requirements of this chapter, or a subsequent
amendment hereto, for the zoning district in which it is located.
   LOT, REVERSE FRONTAGE. Any lot oriented to an abutting street in such a way
that the intersection of the front building line, extended and the street
right-of-way line form an interior angle of less than 45 degrees. A REVERSE
FRONTAGE LOT may also be a corner lot, through lot or an interior lot.
   LOT, SINGLE-TIER. A lot which backs up to a limited access highway,
railroad, waterbody, physical barrier or other type of use other than another
lot.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on more than one
street. THROUGH LOTS abutting two streets may be referred to as “double
frontage lots”.
   MAJOR THOROUGHFARE. Major thoroughfares consist of interstate, other
freeway, expressway or parkway links, and major streets that provide for the
expeditious movement of high volumes of traffic within and through urban areas.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A parcel of land developed to accommodate
manufactured housing.
   MAXIMUM EXTENT PRACTICABLE. No feasible or practical alternative exists, as
determined by the Ordinance Administrator, and all possible efforts to comply
with the standards or regulation or minimize potential harmful or adverse
impacts have been undertaken by an applicant. Economic considerations may be
taken into account, but shall not be the overriding factor determining MAXIMUM
EXTENT PRACTICABLE.
   MEDICAL TREATMENT CENTER. An establishment where patients are admitted for
examination and treatment by one or more physicians, dentists or psychologists,
and where patients may or may not be lodged overnight.
   MINIMUM LOT SIZE. The minimum amount of land area, measured horizontally,
included within the lines of a lot as required by this chapter. Lands located
within any private easements shall be included within the lot size.
   MINOR THOROUGHFARE. Minor thoroughfares collect traffic from collector,
subcollector and local streets and carry it to the major thoroughfare system.
MINOR THOROUGHFARES are used to supplement the major thoroughfare system by
facilitating the movement of moderate volumes of traffic within and through
urban areas.
   MIXED-USE. A single structure or tract of land containing more than one type
of use, where the different types of uses are in close proximity, planned as a
unified complementary whole and functionally integrated to the use of shared
vehicular and pedestrian access and parking areas.
   MONOPOLE TOWER. An antenna-supporting structure typically composed of a
single hollow steel shaft with one or more platforms intended for mounting
antennas or other communications equipment.
   MOTOR VEHICLE USE AREA. The area containing the driveways, drive aisles,
parking, stacking and standing areas provided for motor vehicles.
   MURAL. A painting or other work of art executed directly on a wall; not
considered signs.
   NON-CONFORMING LOT. A lot, the area, dimensions or location of which was
lawful prior to the adoption, revision or amendment of this chapter, but that
fails by reason of such adoption, revision or amendment to conform to the
present requirements of the zoning district.
   NON-CONFORMING SIGN. Any sign lawfully existing on the effective date of an
ordinance, or amendment thereto, that renders such sign non- conforming because
it does not conform to all the standards and regulations of the adopted or
amended ordinance.
   NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE OR BUILDING. A structure or building, the size,
dimensions or location of which was lawful prior to the adoption, revision or
amendment to this chapter, but that fails by reason of such adoption, revision
or amendment to conform to the present requirements of the zoning district.
   NON-CONFORMING USES. Any actual and active use lawfully being made of any
land, building, sign or structure not otherwise abandoned, which exists on the
effective date of this chapter or on the effective date of any amendment
thereto, and renders such existing use illegal within a district, or which does
not comply in any fashion with any of the regulations of this chapter or any
amendments thereto. If the property or structure is vacant or unused on the
effective date of this chapter or any amendment thereto, it shall be
conclusively presumed that the property or structure is subject to the
provisions of this chapter or any amendments thereto. A use or activity that
was lawful prior to the adoption, revision or amendment of the zoning ordinance
but that fails by reason of such adoption, revision or amendment to conform to
the present requirements of the zoning district.
   NON-CONFORMITY. A non-conforming use, structure, lot of record or sign.
   NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES. The laws created by the state’s of North
Carolina legislature and to which the town is required to uphold.
   NOTICE OF VIOLATION. An initial notice indicating an infraction of this
chapter; not associated with a fine.
   NURSING HOME. As defined by G.S. 131E-101(6), a facility, however named,
which is advertised, announced or maintained for the express or implied purpose
of providing nursing or convalescent care for three or more persons unrelated
to the licensee. A NURSING HOME is a home for chronic or convalescent patients,
who, on admission, are not as a rule, acutely ill and who do not usually
require special facilities such as an operating room, X-ray facilities,
laboratory facilities and obstetrical facilities. A NURSING HOME provides care
for persons who have remedial ailments or other ailments, for which medical and
nursing care are indicated; who, however, are not sick enough to require
general hospital care. Nursing care is their primary need, but they will
require continuing medical supervision.
   OPACITY. A measurement indicating the degree of obscuration of light or
visibility.
   ORDINANCE. A document of regulations enforceable as municipal law.
   OUTDOOR DISPLAY/SALES. The placement of products or materials for sale
outside the entrance of a retail or wholesale sales establishment.
   OUTDOOR STORAGE. The keeping, in an unroofed area of any goods, junk,
material, merchandise or vehicles in the same place for more than 24 hours.
This shall not include the display of vehicles for sale in a new or used car
sales lot. Such activities may be the principal use of the land where located
or as an accessory use to another principal use.
   OVERLAY DISTRICT. A zoning district that includes supplementary or
replacement regulations to the requirements of the underlying, base zoning
district.
   PARCEL. Any quantity of land and/or water capable of being described in
definitive terms with respect to its location and boundaries. It may be
established as distinct from other parcels which are designated by its owner or
developer as land to be used or developed as a unit, or which has been used or
developed as a unit.
   PARK, PUBLIC. Land used for recreation, exercise, sports, education,
rehabilitation or similar activities, or a land area intended to enhance the
enjoyment of natural features or natural beauty, specifically excluding
commercially operated amusement parks.
   PARKING, OFF-SITE. An off-street parking area provided on a different parcel
than the use it is intended to serve.
   PARKING, ON-STREET. A location or area within the right-of-way of a public
or private street that is reserved for the parking of vehicles. Such areas may
or may not be formally designated with signage, striping or parking meters.
   PARKING, SHARED. Off-street parking facilities shared by two or more uses
that are in close proximity to one another and the parking area, and that have
different operational characteristics such that use of the parking facilities
by one use will not generally overlap with the use of the parking area by the
other use(s).
   PARKING LOT. The portion of a site or development dedicated to vehicular
ingress and egress, off-street parking, parking aisles, internal travel ways,
fire lanes and other areas dedicated to vehicular use, but not necessarily
including vehicular storage areas.
   PARKING LOT DRIVE AISLE. A vehicular accessway located within an off-street
parking or vehicular use area which serves individual parking stalls and
driveways.
   PARKING SPACE, ACCESSIBLE. A space designated for the parking or temporary
storage of one motor vehicle in addition to the space necessary for the ingress
and egress from the vehicle by a disabled person and any equipment needed for
that purpose.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. A space that is designated for the parking or
temporary storage of one motor vehicle located outside of a dedicated street
right-of-way, vehicular travel way or parking aisle.
   PATHWAYS, PEDESTRIAN. Interconnected paved walkways that provide a
pedestrian passage through blocks running from street to street, vehicular use
areas or other locations.
   PERENNIAL STREAM. A stream or other channel that holds flowing water 365
days a year.
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE. Any security that may be accepted by the town or
another government unit to assure that improvements required as part of an
application for development will be satisfactorily completed.
   PERMITTED USES. Uses allowed to occur by right within a designated zoning or
other planning district.
   PERSON. For the purposes of enforcing this chapter in accordance with §§
152.095 through
152.099 and
152.999 of this chapter, PERSON includes any individual, corporation,
government agency, government official, business trust, partnership, two or
more persons having a joint interest, or any other legal entity. PERSONS
subject to the remedies and penalties established in §§
152.095 through
152.099 and
152.999 of this chapter, for violating this chapter shall include: an
architect, engineer, builder, contractor, developer, agency or any other person
who participates in, assists, directs, creates, causes or maintains a condition
that results in or constitutes a violation of this chapter; or an owner, any
tenant or occupant, or any other person, who has control over, or
responsibility for, the use or development of the land on which the violation
occurs. For all other purposes, PERSON means any individual, corporation,
government agency, business trust, partnership, two or more persons having a
joint interest or any other legal entity.
   PERVIOUS SURFACE. A surface that is penetrable by water to some degree.
PERVIOUS SURFACES may be constructed of mixed pervious and impervious surfaces
such as concrete and grass or “grass-crete”.
   PLAN, SITE. A site plan approval reviewed and approved or denied by the
Planning Board in accordance with §
152.075 of this chapter.
   PLAN, SUBDIVISION SKETCH. A sketch plan reviewed by the Planning Department
and the Engineering Department in accordance with §
152.076 of this chapter.
   PLANNING BOARD. The Town of Kenansville Planning Board, established by
ordinance in accordance with G.S. §§ 160A-361 and 160A-362.
   PLANTING STRIP. Areas adjacent to property lines intended for the placement
of vegetation within the interior of vehicular use areas or along street right-
of-way edges, typically between the back of the curb and the inside edge of the
sidewalk.
   PLAT. A map or plan of a parcel of land which is to be, or has been
subdivided.
   PORCH. A roofed structure not more than 75% enclosed by walls, attached to
the main building and not heated or cooled.
   PORTABLE SELF STORAGE CONTAINER. Transportable containers designed and used
primarily for temporary storage of building materials, household goods,
personal items or other materials on residential lots.
   PRIMARY ENTRANCE. The place of ingress and egress to a building, parcel or
development used most frequently by the public.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The primary purpose or function that a lot serves or is
proposed to serve.
   PRODUCE STAND. A building or structure used for the retail sales of fresh
fruits, vegetables, flowers, herbs or plants grown on the same parcel of land
where the stand is located. Such use may also involve the accessory sales of
other unprocessed foodstuffs, home processed food products such as jams,
jellies, pickles, sauces or baked goods and homemade handicrafts. No
commercially-packaged handicrafts or commercially processed or packaged
foodstuffs shall be sold. Such uses also include “pick your own” establishments
where customers gather their own produce from the fields for purchase and off-
site consumption.
   PROJECT AREA. Any area of land or water, regardless of the number of
individual lots contained therein, on which development is proposed under this
chapter.
   PUBLIC HEARING. A meeting open to the public advertised in advance in the
local printed media, or as otherwise required by statute, concerning proposed
ordinances, amendments or other official town business which require public
participation and input.
   QUASI-JUDICIAL PUBLIC HEARING. A formal public hearing involving the legal
rights of specific parties conducted by the town’s Board of Commissioners or
the Board of Adjustment based on evidence and sworn testimony presented during
the public hearing. Decisions made during such hearings are based upon and
supported by the record developed at the hearing, and typically involve
findings of fact made by the decision-making body.
   REAR LOT LINE. The rear lot line is the line connecting the two side lot
lines along the edge of the lot opposite from the frontage line.
   REGISTER OF DEEDS. The duly designated Register of Deeds of Duplin County,
North Carolina.
   RESTAURANT, WITH DRIVE-THROUGH SERVICE. An establishment where provision is
made on the premises for the selling, dispensing, or serving of food,
refreshments or beverages to persons seated inside, outside, in automobiles
and/or in other than a completely enclosed building on the premises.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The land dedicated, deeded, used or to be used for a street,
road, alley, pedestrian way, crosswalk, bikeway, drainage facility or other
public uses, wherein the owner gives up rights to the land so long as it is
being or will be used for the intended purpose. RIGHT-OF-WAY also is a land
measurement term, meaning the distance between lot property lines which
generally contain not only the street pavement, but also the sidewalk, grass
area and underground or aboveground utilities.
   ROOF, MANSARD. A four-sided roof having a double slope on each of the four
sides, with the lower slope much steeper than the upper.
   ROOF LINE. The highest point of a flat roof and mansard roof and the lowest
point of a pitched roof excluding any cupolas, chimneys or other minor
projection.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any building or portion thereof for providing lodging, but
not meals, to not more than five guests where rent is paid to the owner or
proprietor.
   SCHOOL (ELEMENTARY, MIDDLE, SENIOR HIGH). A public or private school
offering general, technical, or alternative instruction at the pre-school,
elementary, middle and/or secondary school levels which operates in buildings
or on premises of any tract size leased or owned by the educational institution
for administrative purposes, classrooms, vocational training (including that of
an industrial nature for instructional purposes only), laboratories,
auditoriums, libraries, cafeterias, after school care, athletic facilities,
dormitories and other facilities which further the education mission of the
institution.
   SELF STORAGE FACILITY. A building divided into sections for use for storage
of items, either temporary or long-term, and not to be used for any other
purpose (such as small offices, garages and the like).
   SETBACK. The shortest horizontal distance from the property line or right-
of-way to the nearest point (leading edge) of the structure or its supporting
member whichever is nearest to the property line or right-of-way.
   SHOEBOX-STYLE LIGHTING FIXTURE. An exterior lighting device in the shape of
a box that is typically mounted on a pole and constructed to direct
illumination to a constrained area directly beneath the lighting fixture.
   SHRUB. A woody plant, smaller than a tree, consisting of several small stems
emerging from the ground or small branches near the ground. SHRUBS may be
deciduous or evergreen.
   SIDE LOT LINE. The side lot line is the lot line connecting the front and
rear lot lines regardless of whether it abuts a right-of-way or another lot
line.
   SIGHT DISTANCE TRIANGLE. The triangular area computed based on the
visibility at an intersection, within which no sign may interfere with
visibility (assuming eye level at three and one-half feet to six feet from a
distance of 15 feet from the edge of the pavement).
   SIGHT TRIANGLE. The triangular area formed by a diagonal line connecting two
points located on intersecting right-of-way lines (or a right-of-way line and
the curb or a driveway).
   SIGN. A name, identification, description, display or illustration, which is
affixed to, painted or represented directly or indirectly upon a building, or
other outdoor surface which directs attention to or is designed or intended to
direct attention to the sign face or to an object, product, place, activity,
person, institution, organization or business. Signs located completely within
an enclosed building, and not exposed to view from a street, must not be
considered a SIGN. Each display surface of a sign or sign face must be
considered to be a SIGN.
   SIGN, CANOPY (or AWNING SIGN). A sign attached to or painted on a canopy or
awning.
   SIGN, DIRECTIONAL. A sign used to guide vehicular and/or pedestrian traffic.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING. A self-supporting sign resting on, or supported by means
of poles, standards or any other type of base on the ground.
   SIGN, HANGING. A sign suspended from under a canopy covering a sidewalk or
pedestrian arcade.
   SIGN, INCIDENTAL. An informational sign that has a purpose secondary to the
use of the site on which it is located.
   SIGN, MONUMENT. A ground-mounted sign in which the area between the bottom
edge of the sign and the ground is substantially filled with a solid
architectural material. Solid architectural materials include wood, brick,
stone, masonry or hard-coat stucco, but do not include aluminum or similar
materials. Substantially filled shall be defined as at least two-thirds of the
area between the edges of the sign and the ground.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. Any sign other than a wall sign that is attached to and
projects from the wall or face of a structure more than 18 inches, including an
arcade/marquee sign.
   SIGN, REGULATORY. A sign indicating federal, state or municipal regulations
for automobiles, trucks, bicycles, pedestrian movement, loading or parking.
   SIGN, ROOF. A sign that is placed above or supported on the top of a
building.
   SIGN, SANDWICH BOARD. A portable A-frame sign with two sides designed to be
seen by pedestrians walking along the sidewalk in urban areas.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. A sign or advertising display designed to be displayed for
a short period of time.
   SIGN, WALL. A sign mounted parallel to or painted on a building facade or
other vertical building surface that does not project more than 18 inches from
the wall surface.
   SIGN FACE. The display surface area of a sign that includes the copy. In the
case of freestanding signs, consists of the entire surface area of the sign on
which copy could be placed. Where a sign has two display faces back to back,
the area of only one face shall be considered the SIGN FACE area. Where a sign
has more than one display face, all areas that can be viewed simultaneously
shall be considered the SIGN FACE area.
   SIGN HEIGHT. The vertical distance as measured at the highest point of the
sign to the elevation of the principal grade of the road or street to which the
sign is oriented.
   SIGN LIGHTING, BACK LIT. Illumination of a sign face where the letters are
raised beyond the sign’s background and lighting sources that illuminate the
background. The lighting sources are covered so that they are not visible and
only the sign’s background is illuminated.
   SIGN SUPPORT STRUCTURE. For freestanding signs, the poles or bracing to
which the sign is attached or mounted.
   SITE-SPECIFIC SITE PLAN (VESTING PLAN). A diagram to scale showing the
development plans for a project and containing all information required of site
plans and/or subdivision plats.
   STACKING/STANDING AREA. A portion of the vehicular use area on a site that
is dedicated to the temporary storage or “standing” of vehicles engaged in
drive-through use of the site or development. Parking or storage of vehicles is
not permitted within the STACKING/STANDING AREA.
   STATE. The state of North Carolina.
   STATE ROADWAY SYSTEM. The system of surface roadways owned and operated by
the state.
   STORM WATER. The direct runoff response of a watershed to rainfall including
the surface and subsurface runoff and any associated material that enters a
ditch, stream or storm sewer during a rainfall event.
   STREET STUB. A non-permanent dead end street intended to be extended in
conjunction with development on adjacent lots or sites.
   SUBCOLLECTOR STREET. A street whose principal function is to provide access
to abutting properties, but which is also designed to be used to connect local
streets with collector or higher classification streets.
   STRUCTURAL REPLACEMENT COST. For the purposes of §
152.110 through
152.115 of this chapter, it means the cost of replacing the structure the day
prior to its destruction, based on a market appraisal performed by a certified
appraiser, at the landowner’s expense.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, installed or portable, the use of which
requires a location on a parcel of land. This includes a fixed or movable
building which can be used for residential, business, commercial, agricultural
or office purposes, either temporarily or permanently. STRUCTURE also includes,
but is not limited to, swimming pools, tennis courts, signs, cisterns, sewage
treatment plants, sheds, docks, mooring areas and similar accessory
construction.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm or corporation who subdivides or develops any
land deemed to be a subdivision, as herein described.
   SUBDIVISION. Includes all divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or
more lots, building sites or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate
or future, of sale or building development of any type and also includes all
divisions of land involving the dedication of a new street or a new street
right-of-way or a change in existing streets; provided, however, that, the
following will not be included within this definition:
      (1)   The combination or recombination of portions of parcels platted and
recorded prior to the effective date of this chapter, or portions of lots
platted in compliance with this chapter after its effective date, where the
total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots are equal to the
standards of this chapter and the appropriate planning area classification;
      (2)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where
street right-of-way dedication or reservation is not involved;
      (3)   The creation of strips of land for the widening or opening of
streets, sidewalks or greenways, or the location of public utility rights-of-
way;
      (4)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is no
greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where street right-of-way
dedication or reservation is not involved and where the resultant lots are
equal to or exceed the standards of the appropriate planning area
classification; and
      (5)   The division of land into plots or lots for use as a cemetery.
   SUBDIVISION FINAL PLAT. A type of subdivision approval reviewed and approved
or denied by the Board of Commissioners in accordance with §
152.076 of this chapter.
   SUBDIVISION PRELIMINARY PLAT. A type of subdivision approval reviewed and
approved or denied by the Board of Commissioners in accordance with §
152.076 of this chapter.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction, expansion or
improvement of a structure, the cost of which exceeds 50 of the assessed value
of a structure as determined either before the expansion or improvement begins
or before the damage occurred giving rise to the repair or reconstruction.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT shall not include, however any repair or improvement
required bringing the structure into compliance with existing state or town
health, sanitary, safety or building ordinance specifications necessary to
ensure safe habitation of the structure.
   SWIMMING POOL. An above- or below-ground structure with a potential water
depth of two feet or more that may be filled with water and used for swimming.
   TEXT AMENDMENT. An amendment to the language of this chapter approved,
approved with conditions, or denied by the Board of Commissioners in accordance
with §
152.071 of this chapter.
   TOWN. Town of Kenansville, North Carolina.
   TRACT. All contiguous land and waterbodies under single or diverse ownership
being developed as a unit consisting of one or more parcels or lots.
   TREE, DECIDIOUS. A tree that drops its foliage annually before becoming
dormant.
   TREE, EVERGREEN. A tree with foliage that is not dropped, or that remains
green throughout the year.
   UNDERSTORY TREE. A tree that has an expected height at maturity of no
greater than 30 feet.
   VARIANCE. A development application reviewed and approved, approved with
conditions or denied by the Board of Adjustment in accordance with §
152.074 of this chapter.
   VEHICULAR USE AREA. The portion of a site or development dedicated to
vehicular ingress and egress, off-street parking, parking aisles, internal
travel ways, fire lanes and other areas dedicated to vehicular use, but not
necessarily including vehicular storage areas.
   VERTICAL MIXED-USE STRUCTURE.
      (1)   A pattern of development that integrates several types of uses
(e.g., retail, office, residential) within a building, occurring on different
floors.
      (2)   A typical example of a VERTICAL MIXED-USE DEVELOPMENT is a building
that includes active uses, such as stores and restaurants, at the street level
and residential or office uses on the upper floors.
   VESTED RIGHT. The right to undertake and complete a development or use of
property under the terms and conditions of an approved site-specific
development plan currently in effect or as otherwise allowed by law.
   WALL PACKS. An exterior lighting device that is flush-mounted on a vertical
wall surface.
   WAREHOUSE. A use engaged in storage of manufactured products, supplies and
equipment excluding bulk storage of materials that are flammable or explosive
or that present hazards or conditions commonly recognized as offensive.
   WHOLESALE SALES. Establishments or places of business primarily engaged in
selling merchandise to retailers; to industrial, commercial, institutional or
professional business users; or to other wholesalers. Wholesale establishment
does not include contractor’s materials or office or retail sales of business
supplies/office equipment.
   YARD. Open space that lies between the principal structure(s) and the
nearest lot line. The minimum required yard is unoccupied and unobstructed from
the ground upward, except as may be specifically provided in this chapter.
YARDS are further classified as front, rear and side. Uses and structures that
may be permitted in required yards include accessory structures, patios, decks
and open porches, bay windows, open steps, driveways, fences and permitted
signs, underground utilities, existing vegetation, required landscaping and
lighting.
   YARD, FRONT. A space extending the full width of the lot between the front
facade of a building and the front lot line or the fronting street right-of-way
measured perpendicular to the building at the closest point to the front lot
line. Typically, this yard is required to remain open and unoccupied, with the
exception of certain encroachments such as porches, bay windows, porticos,
arcades, stoops, sidewalks, street trees, street furniture, fences, walls and
landscaping.
   YARD, REAR. A space extending across the full width of the lot between the
rear facade of the principal structure and the rear lot line and measured
perpendicular to the structure to the closest point of the rear lot line. REAR
YARDS extend from the back of a structure to the lot line. Generally, accessory
structures are permitted within this yard.
   YARD, REQUIRED. The open space between a lot line and the yard line and the
facade of a building within which no structure may be located except as
permitted in this chapter.
   YARD, SIDE.
      (1)   A space extending from the front yard to the rear yard between the
principal structure facade and the side lot line and measured perpendicular
from the side lot line to the closest point of the principal structure facade.
      (2)   SIDE YARDS extend from the sides of a structure to a street right-
of-way or lot line.
   ZONING DISTRICT. A geographic area of land designated on the official zoning
district map and subject to uniform land use regulations related to uses,
density or other similar attributes.
   ZONING MAP. The Official Zoning District Map upon which the boundaries of
various zoning districts are drawn and which is an integral part of this
chapter.
   ZONING PERMIT. A permit reviewed and approved, approved with conditions or
denied by the Ordinance Administrator in accordance with §
152.077 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
ADMINISTRATIVE BODIES
§ 152.025  ADMINISTRATIVE BODIES GENERALLY.
   The following elected and appointed bodies and town staff have powers and
responsibilities in administering, reviewing and approving development
applications under this chapter:
   (A)   Town Board of Commissioners;
   (B)   Planning Board;
   (C)   Board of Adjustment; and
   (D)   Ordinance Administrator.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.026  SUMMARY OF REVIEW AND DECISION RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The following table summarizes the administrative bodies that have specific
review and decision-making roles under this chapter and their responsibilities.
Review and Decision Responsibilities
Process Ordinance     Planning Board Board of Commissioners Board of Adjustment
        Administrator
Review and Decision Responsibilities
Process            Ordinance     Planning Board Board of      Board of
                   Administrator                Commissioners Adjustment
Administrative                                                D
appeal
Establishment of   R             R              D
vested rights
Final plat - major R             R              D
subdivision
Minor subdivision  D                                          A
Ordinance          D                                          A
interpretation
Preliminary plat - R             R              D
major subdivision
Recombination plat D                                          A
Site plan          R             D                            A
Special use permit                                            D
Subdivision sketch R             D
plan
Udo text amendment R             R              D
Variance                                                      D
Zoning map         R             R              D
amendment
Zoning permit      D                                          A
NOTES TO TABLE:
R - Review and Recommendation
D - Decision
A - Appeal
 
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.027  TOWN BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   Organization. Unless specifically modified in this chapter, the town’s
Board of Commissioners must conform to the rules and procedures provided in the
Town Charter.
   (B)   Powers and duties. In the application and enforcement of this chapter,
the town’s Board of Commissioners shall have the following powers and duties:
final approval authority:
      (1)   Amendments to the text of this chapter;
      (2)   Amendments to the official zoning map;
      (3)   Preliminary plats for major subdivisions;
      (4)   Final plats for major subdivisions; and
      (5)   Establishment of vested rights.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.028  PLANNING BOARD.
   (A)   Authority and establishment. The Planning Board is hereby established
in accordance with G.S. §§ 160A-361 and 160A-387.
   (B)   Membership. The Planning Board shall consist of six members, five
members residing within the town shall be appointed by the town’s Board of
Commissioners and one member residing in the ETJ shall be appointed by the
county’s Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   Quorum. A majority of the six members of the Planning Board excluding
vacancies shall constitute a quorum.
   (D)   Voting. An affirmative vote of the majority of the quorum present is
required for all decisions of the Planning Board. A vote resulting in a tie
shall be treated as a denial of the recommendation or decision.
   (E)   Powers and duties. In the application and enforcement of this chapter,
the Planning Board shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   Review and recommendation:
         (a)   Amendments to the text of this chapter;
         (b)   Amendments to the official zoning map;
         (c)   Sketch plans for major subdivisions;
         (d)   Preliminary plats for major subdivisions;
         (e)   Final plats for major subdivisions; and
         (f)   Establishment of vested rights.
      (2)   Final approval authority: site plans.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.029  BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Authority and establishment. The Board of Adjustment is hereby
established in accordance with G.S. § 160A-388.
   (B)   Membership. The Board of Adjustment shall consist of six members, five
members residing within the town shall be appointed by the Town Board of
Commissioners and one member residing in the ETJ shall be appointed by the
County Commissioners.
   (C)   Quorum. A majority of the six members of the Board of Adjustment
excluding vacancies shall constitute a quorum.
   (D)   Voting. The concurring vote of five-sixths of the members of the Board
shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination
of any administrative official charged with the enforcement of this chapter, or
to decide in favor of the applicant any matter upon which it is required to
pass under this chapter, or to grant a Variance from the provisions of this
chapter. For the purposes of this section, vacant positions on the Board and
members who are disqualified from voting on a quasi-judicial matter shall not
be considered “members of the Board” for calculation of the requisite super-
majority if there are no qualified alternates available to take the place of
such members. (G.S. § 160A-388(e))
   (E)   Powers and duties. In the application and enforcement of this chapter,
the Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers and duties: final
approval authority:
      (1)   Variances;
      (2)   Special use permits;
      (3)   Appeals of administrative decisions;
      (4)   Appeals of denials of zoning permits;
      (5)   Appeals of denials for minor subdivision approval;
      (6)   Appeals of denials for recombination plat approval;
      (7)   Appeals of chapter interpretations; and
      (8)   Appeals of denials for site plan approval.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.030  ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Authority and establishment. The Town Board of Commissioners shall
appoint an Ordinance Administrator to administer and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. The Ordinance Administrator may select designees to administer
and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Powers and duties. In the application and enforcement of this chapter,
the Ordinance Administrator or its designees shall have the following powers
and duties:
      (1)   Review and recommendation:
         (a)   Amendments to the text of this chapter;
         (b)   Amendments to the official zoning map;
         (c)   Site plans;
         (d)   Establishment of vested rights;
         (e)   Subdivision sketch plans;
         (f)   Preliminary subdivision plats; and
         (g)   Final subdivision plats.
      (2)   Final approval authority:
         (a)   Zoning permits;
         (b)   Ordinance interpretations;
         (c)   Minor subdivision plats; and
         (d)   Recombination plats.
      (3)   Additional duties:
         (a)   Establish application content requirements and a submission
schedule for review of applications and appeals;
         (b)   Maintain the official zoning map and related materials;
         (c)   Enforce the regulations contained within this chapter;
         (d)   Maintain the official copy of this chapter and ensure that it is
updated upon the approval of a text amendment; and
         (e)   Maintain a record of all permits and approvals.
   (C)   Discretionary authority. Unless otherwise prohibited by federal,
state, local law or ordinance, the Ordinance Administrator has discretionary
authority upon written request of the applicant to exceed setback, size, length
or height requirements stated in this chapter by 10%. Requests for variances
beyond this amount must be referred to the Board of Adjustments. When deciding
whether to exercise its discretionary authority, the Ordinance Administrator
should be guided by the principles stated in §
152.074 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
COMMON REVIEW PROCEDURES
§ 152.045  GENERAL.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all development application
requests under this chapter, unless otherwise stated.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.046  APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Applications required under this chapter shall be submitted on forms, in
such numbers, and according to deadlines established by the Ordinance
Administrator. No application may be reviewed until it is substantially
complete, as determined by the Ordinance Administrator.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.047  FEES.
   The town’s Board of Commissioners shall establish, and may modify from time
to time, a schedule of fees that must be paid in full prior to the review of
any submitted application.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.048  PUBLIC NOTICE.
   (A)   Contents of notice. All public notices required under this chapter
shall comply with G.S. § 160A-364. Additionally, all notices, except for posted
notices shall:
      (1)   Identify the date, time and location of the meeting or public
hearing;
      (2)   Identify the property involved by the street address (if available)
or by the legal description and/or parcel identification number (PIN);
      (3)   Describe the nature and scope of the proposed action;
      (4)   Indicate that interested parties may appear at public hearings and
speak on the matter; and
      (5)   Include the telephone number and address at which further
information may be obtained prior to the meeting or public hearing.
   (B)   Published notice. When the provisions of this chapter require that
notice of a development application be published pursuant to G.S. § 160A-364,
the Ordinance Administrator shall publish a notice of the meeting or public
hearing once a week for two successive weeks in a newspaper having general
circulation in the town. The first notice shall be published not less than ten
days, nor more than 25 days, prior to the date fixed for the hearing or
meeting. In computing such period, the day of publication is not included, but
the day of the hearing or meeting shall be included.
   (C)   Mailed notice.
      (1)   When the provisions of this chapter require that mailed notice be
provided pursuant to G.S. § 160A-384, the Ordinance Administrator shall prepare
a notice of the public hearing or meeting and deliver the notice via first
class mail to the following persons:
         (a)   The applicant;
         (b)   Listed owners of adjacent lands; and
         (c)   Any person that has registered with the Town Clerk to receive
notice of meetings of town boards.
      (2)   Mailed notices shall be deposited in the mail no fewer than ten
days and no more than 25 days prior to the date of the public hearing or
meeting.
      (3)   The Ordinance Administrator shall prepare an affidavit with
affirmation that the required mailed notice procedures have been followed. The
affidavit shall be conclusive evidence that the terms of this division (C) have
been met as set forth in G.S. § 160A-384(a).
      (4)   Mailed notices shall not be required when an application to amend
the official zoning map includes more than 50 different lots or tracts, owned
by at least 50 different landowners; provided that, the town publishes a notice
(occupying at least one-half of a newspaper page) in a newspaper of general
circulation once a week for two consecutive weeks beginning at least ten, but
not more than 25, days prior to the public hearing date. Affected landowners
residing outside of the town’s jurisdiction or the newspaper’s circulation area
shall be notified via first class mail in accordance with the procedures set
forth in subsections (A) and (B) above.
   (D)   Posted notice.
      (1)   When the provisions of this chapter require that notice be posted
pursuant to G.S. § 160A-384(c), the Ordinance Administrator shall post the
notice on the subject property(ies) at least ten days prior to the first public
hearing or meeting. When multiple parcels are included within a proposed zoning
map amendment, a posting on each individual parcel is not required, but the
town shall post sufficient notices to provide reasonable notice to interested
persons. In computing such period, the day of the posting shall not be counted,
but the day of the hearing shall be counted. Posted notices shall remain in
place until such time that the approving authority has rendered its final
decision on the matter.
      (2)   If no part of the subject property is visible from a public right-
of-way, the notice shall be posted along the nearest street in the public
right-of- way in such a manner as to ensure consistency with the intent of this
division (D).
      (3)   In addition to the notice posted on the subject property(ies),
notice shall also be posted conspicuously within Town Hall at least ten days
prior to the initial hearing or meeting on the matter.
      (4)   (a)   The Ordinance Administrator shall prepare an affidavit with
affirmation that the required posted notice procedures have been followed.
         (b)   The affidavit shall be conclusive evidence that the terms of
this division (D) have been met.
   (E)   Constructive notice.
      (1)   Minor defects in any notice shall not impair the notice or
invalidate proceedings pursuant to the notice if a bona fide attempt has been
made to comply with the applicable notice requirements. Minor defects in
notices may include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Errors in legal descriptions; or
         (b)   Typographical or grammatical errors that do not impede the
communication of the notice to affected parties.
      (2)   Failure of an affected party to receive written notice shall not
invalidate subsequent action. In all cases, however, the requirements for the
timing of the notice and for specifying the time, date and place of a public
hearing or meeting and the location of the subject property(ies) shall be
strictly adhered to.
      (3)   If question arises at the hearing or meeting regarding the adequacy
of the notice, the reviewing or decision-making body shall direct the Ordinance
Administrator to make a formal finding as to whether there was substantial
compliance with the notice requirements of this chapter, and such findings
shall be made available to the reviewing or decision- making body prior to
further action being taken on the request.
   (F)   Summary of notice requirements. The following table summarizes the
notice requirements for certain development applications.
Notice Requirements
Process Published Notice Mailed Notice Posted Notice
Notice Requirements
Process                        Published Notice Mailed Notice Posted Notice
Administrative appeal          x                x
Establishment of vested rights x                x             x
Special use permit             x                x             x
UDO text amendment             x
Variance                       x                x             x
Zoning map amendment           x                x             x
 
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.049  PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   Application to be scheduled for hearing. When an application is
subject to a public hearing, as determined by the following table, the
Ordinance Administrator shall ensure that the public hearing is scheduled for
either:
      (1)   A regularly scheduled meeting; or
      (2)   A meeting specially called for that purpose by the decision-making
body reviewing the application.
   (B)   Timing. The public hearing on the application shall be scheduled so
that there is sufficient time for the Ordinance Administrator to properly
review the application and for the public notification requirements in G.S. §§
160A-364 and 160A-384 to be satisfied.
   (C)   Summary of public hearing requirements. The following table depicts
the decision-making body responsible for conducting a public hearing for
certain development applications.
Public Hearing Requirements
Process Board of Commissioners Board of Adjustment
Public Hearing Requirements
Process                        Board of Commissioners Board of Adjustment
Administrative appeal                                 x
Establishment of vested rights x
Special use permit                                    x
UDO text amendment             x
Variance                                              x
Zoning map amendment           x
 
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.050  CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL.
   (A)   General. When a decision-making body may, according to the express
terms of this chapter, approve a development application with conditions, such
body may impose reasonable and appropriate conditions or restrictions on the
approval. The conditions may, as appropriate, ensure compliance with the
general goals and policies of this chapter or with particular standards of this
chapter, to prevent or minimize adverse effects from the proposed development
on surrounding lands.
   (B)   Limitations.
      (1)   The restrictions and conditions imposed must be related in both
type and amount to the impact that the proposed development would have on the
public and surrounding lands.
      (2)   All conditions imposed shall be expressly set forth in the motion
by the decision- making body to approve the development application.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.051  DEFERRAL OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   Request prior to publication of notice. An applicant may request that
a decision-making body’s consideration of an application at public hearing be
deferred by submitting a written request for deferral to the Ordinance
Administrator prior to the publication of notice for the public hearing. The
Ordinance Administrator may grant such requests for good cause. The date of the
public hearing at which the application will be heard shall be set at the time
the deferral is granted.
   (B)   Request after publication of notice. If a request for deferral of
consideration of an application by a decision-making body is submitted
subsequent to publication of notice, the request for deferral shall be placed
on the public hearing agenda and acted upon by the decision-making body. The
decision-making body may grant such requests for good cause. The date of the
public hearing at which the application will be heard shall be set at the time
the deferral is granted. If a deferral is granted, the application may be
subject to additional application fees to defray the costs of processing the
application. Any additional fees must be paid to the town prior to the re-
advertisement of the public hearing notice.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.052  CHANGES TO APPLICATION AFTER NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING.
   After publication of notice has occurred, changes to an application
(including changes to an application at the public hearing) not made solely to
satisfy staff or review body recommendations or conditions shall be governed by
the provisions of this section.
   (A)   Clerical errors. Minor additions, deletions or corrections
constituting clerical errors in an application may be made without referral of
the application, as amended, back to the Ordinance Administrator for review and
preparation of a staff report, or to any review bodies as is required for the
original review of the application.
   (B)   Major changes. No substantive changes to a development application
related to uses, densities, intensities, street layout, access, open space
configuration, building form or other major element shall be made after
notification of a public hearing. Major changes by the applicant after
notification of a public hearing require that the original application be
withdrawn and a new application be submitted along with any required fees. The
resubmitted application must go through the entire review process as if it were
a new application in order to ensure the proper review of all changes.
   (C)   Conditions of approval. Proposed changes in conditions of approval may
be considered by the town’s Board of Commissioners or Board of Adjustment
without referral back to the Ordinance Administrator or other recommending
body.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.053  WITHDRAWAL OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   Submission of request. Any request for withdrawal of an application
subject to a public hearing shall be submitted in writing to the Ordinance
Administrator, or shall be made through a verbal request at the public hearing
for which the application has been scheduled.
   (B)   Prior to notice of public hearing. The Ordinance Administrator shall
approve a request for withdrawal of an application if it has been submitted
prior to public notification of the application.
   (C)   Subsequent to notice of public hearing.
      (1)   If the request for withdrawal of an application is submitted
subsequent to public notification, the request for withdrawal shall be placed
on the public hearing agenda and acted upon by the decision-making body.
      (2)   Whenever an application subject to a requirement for a public
hearing before the town’s Board of Commissioners is withdrawn after public
notification, but prior to a decision by the town’s Board of Commissioners, no
similar application may be submitted for the same property for a period of 90
days following the withdrawal.
   (D)   Fees. Fees shall not be refunded for withdrawn applications.
   (E)   Waiting period. No more than two withdrawals of the same type of
development application for the same property may be filed within any single
12-month period, and no similar type of application may be filed for the same
land within one year following the second withdrawal.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.054  NOTIFICATION TO APPLICANT.
   Within a reasonable period of time after a decision on an application, the
Town Clerk shall notify the applicant of the decision in writing. Within a
reasonable period of time after the decision, a copy of the decision shall also
be made available to the public in the office of the Town Clerk, during normal
business hours.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.055  LAPSE OF APPROVAL.
   Lapse of approval (also referred to as “expiration”) shall occur as provided
by this chapter for the various types of development applications. If no
provision for lapse is given by this chapter for a particular type of
development permit or approval, and if no lapse period is imposed as part of an
approval by the decision-making body, lapse shall occur if development is not
commenced or a subsequent permit authorized by that approval is not obtained
within two years.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.056  EXAMINATION OF APPLICATIONS AND SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   At any time upon reasonable request and during normal business hours,
any person may examine an application, a finalized staff report and materials
submitted in support of or in opposition to an application in the office of the
Town Clerk.
   (B)   Copies of such materials shall be made available at a reasonable cost.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
DEVELOPMENT APPLICATIONS
§ 152.070  GENERAL.
   This section includes the review procedures, standards and related
information for each of the development application procedures as summarized in
the table in §
152.026 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.071  OFFICIAL ZONING MAP AMENDMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide a uniform means for
amending the official zoning map.
   (B)   Authority. The town’s Board of Commissioners may adopt an ordinance
amending the official zoning map upon compliance with the provisions of this
section.
   (C)   Initiation. An application to amend the official zoning map may be
initiated by the town’s Board of Commissioners, the Planning Board, the
Ordinance Administrator, a resident of the town or any other person having a
financial or other interest in land located within the town’s zoning
jurisdiction.
   (D)   Procedures.
      (1)   Preliminary procedures. The preliminary procedures and requirements
for submission and review of an application are established in §§
152.045 through
152.056 of this chapter.
      (2)   Review and recommendation by Ordinance Administrator. Prior to the
submission of the application to the Planning Board, the Ordinance
Administrator shall review the application and make a written recommendation
which he or she shall present to the Planning Board during the meeting at which
it considers the application.
      (3)   Review and recommendation by Planning Board. Following the review
by the Ordinance Administrator, the application shall be forwarded to the
Planning Board for its review and recommendation. During the meeting, the
Planning Board shall consider the application, relevant supporting materials,
the Ordinance Administrator’s recommendation and any comments given by the
public on the matter. Within 30 days of the first meeting on an application,
the Planning Board shall make a written recommendation to the Board of
Commissioners. In making its recommendation, the Planning Board shall include a
written statement summarizing the amendment’s consistency with the Future Land
Use Plan and any other relevant plans having applicability to the proposed
amendment in accordance with G.S. § 160A-383.
      (4)   Review and action by Board of Commissioners. Following
consideration by the Planning Board, the town’s Board of Commissioners shall
conduct a public hearing to review and consider the application, the relevant
supporting materials, the Ordinance Administrator’s recommendation, the
recommendation of the Planning Board and the comments given during the hearing
(if any). Following the close of the public hearing, the town’s Board of
Commissioners shall take one of the following actions:
         (a)   Approve the rezoning application as requested;
         (b)   Approve the rezoning application with a reduction in size of the
area requested;
         (c)   Approve the rezoning application to a more restrictive base
zoning district;
         (d)   Deny the rezoning application; and
         (e)   Remand the rezoning application back to the Planning Board for
further consideration.
Regardless of the decision on the application, the Board of Commissioners shall
adopt a statement on the proposed amendment’s consistency with the Future Land
Use Plan and any other relevant plans having applicability to the proposed
amendment as well as the reasonableness of the action and how the action
furthers the public interest in accordance with G.S. § 160A-383. Where a
rezoning is approved that has the effect of creating an isolated district (a
zoning district surrounded entirely by dissimilar zoning districts) that is
less than ten acres in size, the Board of Commissioners shall also adopt a
statement analyzing the reasonableness of the approval of the small scale
rezoning in accordance with G.S. § 160A-382.
   (E)   Protest petitions.
      (1)   General. Applications to amend the official zoning map which are
subject to a valid protest petition as set forth in G.S. § 160A-385 shall only
be approved by an affirmative vote of at least three-fourths of the members of
the town’s Board of Commissioners who are eligible to vote on the matter.
      (2)   Valid protest petitions.
         (a)   For a protest petition to be valid, it must be signed by:
            1.   The owners of at least 20% of the land area within the area
subject to the application for amendment; or
            2.   The owners of at least 5% of the land within a 100-foot buffer
extending along the perimeter of the area subject to the application for
amendment. A street right-of-way shall not be considered in computing the
buffer distance; provided that, the right-of-way is less 100 feet in width. If
an area less than an entire parcel is proposed for rezoning, the buffer shall
be computed from the exterior parcel boundary.
         (b)   In accordance with G.S. § 160A-385(a), no protest against any
change in or amendment to a zoning ordinance or zoning map shall be valid or
effective for the purposes of G.S. § 160A-385 unless it is in the form of a
written petition actually bearing the signatures of the requisite number of
property owners and stating that the signers do protest the proposed change or
amendment, and unless it shall have been received by the Town Clerk in
sufficient time to allow the town at least two normal work days, excluding
Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, before the date established for a public
hearing on the proposed change or amendment to determine the sufficiency and
accuracy of the petition.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.072  TEXT AMENDMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide a uniform means for
amending the text of this chapter.
   (B)   Authority. The town’s Board of Commissioners may adopt an ordinance
amending the text of this chapter upon compliance with the provisions of this
section.
   (C)   Initiation. An application to amend the text of this chapter may be
initiated by the town’s Board of Commissioners, the Planning Board, the
Ordinance Administrator, a resident of the town or any other person having a
financial or other interest in land located within the town’s zoning
jurisdiction.
   (D)   Procedures.
      (1)   Preliminary procedures. The preliminary procedures and requirements
for submission and review of an application are established in §§
152.045 through
152.056 of this chapter.
      (2)   Review and recommendation by Ordinance Administrator. Prior to the
submission of the application to the Planning Board, the Ordinance
Administrator shall review the application and make a written recommendation
which he or she shall present to the Planning Board.
      (3)   Review and recommendation by Planning Board. Following the review
and recommendation by the Ordinance Administrator, the application shall be
forwarded to the Planning Board for its review and recommendation. During the
meeting the Planning Board shall consider the application, relevant supporting
materials, the Ordinance Administrator’s recommendation and any comments given
by the public on the matter. Within 30 days of the first meeting on an
application, the Planning Board shall make a written recommendation to the
Board of Commissioners. In making its recommendation, the Planning Board shall
include a written statement summarizing the amendment’s consistency with the
Future Land Use Plan and any other relevant plans having applicability to the
proposed amendment in accordance with G.S. § 160A-383.
      (4)   Review and action by Board of Commissioners.
         (a)   Following consideration by the Planning Board, the town’s Board
of Commissioners shall conduct a public hearing to review and consider the
application, the relevant supporting materials, the Ordinance Administrator’s
recommendation, the recommendation of the Planning Board and the comments given
during the hearing (if any). Following the close of the public hearing, the
town’s Board of Commissioners shall take one of the following actions:
            1.   Approve the amendment as written;
            2.   Approve a revised amend- ment;
            3.   Reject the amendment; or
            4.   Remand the application back to the Planning Board for further
consideration.
         (b)   Regardless of the decision on the application, the Board of
Commissioners shall adopt a statement on the proposed amendment’s consistency
with the Future Land Use Plan and any other relevant plans having applicability
to the proposed amendment as well as the reasonableness of the action and how
the action furthers the public interest in accordance with G.S. § 160A-383.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.073  SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Purpose. Special uses are uses that are generally compatible with the
other uses permitted in a zoning district, but require individual review of
their location, design, configuration, density and intensity of use, and
usually require the imposition of conditions to ensure the appropriateness of
the use at a particular location.
   (B)   Authority. The Board of Adjustment is authorized to review and decide
applications for special use permits in accordance with this section. Only
those uses identified as special uses in §
152.145 of this chapter are authorized to be considered as special uses under
this section. The designation of a use as a special use does not constitute an
authorization that such use shall be approved through a special use permit in
accordance with this section. Rather, each proposed special use shall be
evaluated by the Board of Adjustment for compliance with the standards set
forth in this section and the applicable standards for the use in §§
152.146 through
152.201 of this chapter (if appropriate).
   (C)   Initiation. An application for a special use permit may only be
initiated by the owner(s), of the property for which the special use permit is
designated. Agents of property owners may apply only after submitting a
notarized letter of agency containing the signatures of all owners holding a
beneficial interest in the property for which the special use permit is
designated.
   (D)   Procedures.
      (1)   Preliminary procedures. The preliminary procedures and requirements
for submission and review of an application are established in §§
152.045 through
152.056 of this chapter.
      (2)   Site plan required. A site plan must be submitted as part of the
application for a special use permit. The site plan shall conform to the
requirements set forth in §
152.075(E)(4) of this chapter.
      (3)   Action by Board of Adjustment. After public notification and
scheduling of a public hearing, the Board of Adjustment shall conduct a quasi-
judicial public hearing on the application. At the public hearing, the Board of
Adjustment shall consider the application, the relevant supporting materials,
the site plan and evidence presented at the quasi-judicial public hearing.
After the close of the public hearing, the Board of Adjustment shall approve,
approve with conditions or deny the application based on the standards in
division (E) below. In accordance with the standards set forth in G.S. § 160A-
388(e), granting approval or conditional approval of a special use permit shall
require an affirmative vote of at least five-sixths of the members of the Board
of Adjustment who are eligible to vote. All decisions by the Board of
Adjustment shall be in writing.
   (E)   Required findings of fact. A special use permit shall only be approved
by the Board of Adjustment when each of the following findings have been made:
      (1)   The proposed use will not be detrimental to the health, safety or
general welfare of persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to
property or improvements in the vicinity;
      (2)   The proposed use is in compliance with all standards in §§
152.146 through
152.201 of this chapter;
      (3)   The proposed use is compatible with the character of surrounding
property and uses permitted in the zoning district(s) of surrounding property;
      (4)   The proposed use is configured in a manner to minimize any adverse
effects on surrounding lands;
      (5)   The proposed use will not adversely impact traffic circulation on
or in the vicinity of the site;
      (6)   The proposed use will not be detrimental to the value of adjacent
or nearby property; and
      (7)   The proposed use is in full compliance with all other relevant town
laws and ordinances, state and federal laws and regulations.
   (F)   Conditions of approval. In approving a special use permit, the Board
of Adjustment may impose additional conditions on the permit approval in
accordance with G.S. § 160A-381. All additional conditions imposed must be
accepted by the applicant.
   (G)   Effect of approval. Issuance of a special use permit shall authorize
only the particular special use that is approved in the permit. All subsequent
development and use of the property must be in accordance with the approved
special use permit and conditions (if applicable). Nothing in this division (E)
shall prevent the establishment of a different use of land; provided, such use
is established in accordance with the requirements in this chapter.
   (H)   Recordation. The applicant shall, at his or her expense, record the
special use permit in the office of the Register of Deeds of the county within
30 days of its issuance and provide the town with evidence of its recordation.
   (I)   Subsequent development. Development authorized by the special use
permit shall not be carried out until the applicant has secured all other
permits required by this chapter or any other applicable provisions of the
town. A special use permit does not ensure that the use shall receive
subsequent approval for other applications for permit approval unless the
relevant and applicable portions of this chapter or any other applicable
provisions are met.
   (J)   Expiration.
      (1)   General. The town’s Board of Commissioners may prescribe a time
limit within which development activity shall begin or be completed under the
special use permit, or both. Failure to begin or complete such development
activity within the time limit specified shall void the special use permit.
Unless specified otherwise by the town’s Board of Commissioners, a special use
permit shall automatically expire two years from the date of its issuance if:
         (a)   The development authorized by the permit has not commenced, and
no substantial construction, alteration, demolition, excavation or other
similar work required by the permit is completed;
         (b)   Less than 10% of the total amount of development approved as
part of the permit is completed, when construction, alteration, demolition,
excavation or other similar work is required; or
         (c)   The development approved by the special use permit is
discontinued and not resumed for a period of one year.
      (2)   Extension. Upon written application submitted at least 30 days
prior to the expiration of the permit period by the applicant, and upon a
showing of good cause, the Ordinance Administrator may grant one extension not
to exceed six months. Failure to submit an application for an extension within
the time limits established by this section shall result in the expiration of
the special use permit.
   (K)   Minor deviation. Minor field alterations or minor revisions to
approved special use permits may be approved by the Ordinance Administrator if
the special use still meets the intent of the standards established with the
original approval. Any other change shall be considered as an amendment. Minor
field alterations and revisions include, but are not limited to, small shifts
in the location of structures, parking areas, landscaping, utilities, driveways
and other site features in order to accommodate the existence of circumstances
found during construction that could not have been anticipated prior to the
commencement of development activity.
   (L)   Amendment. A special use permit may be amended, extended or modified
only in accordance with the procedures and standards established for its
original approval.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.074  VARIANCE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of a variance is to allow certain deviations from
the standards of this chapter (such as height, yard setback, lot coverage or
similar numeric standards), when the landowner demonstrates that, owing to
special circumstances or conditions beyond the landowner’s control (such as
exceptional topographical conditions, narrowness, shallowness or the shape of a
specific parcel of land), the literal application of the standards would result
in undue and unique hardship to the landowner and the deviation would not be
contrary to the public interest.
   (B)   Authority. The Board of Adjustment shall review and decide any
applications for variances form the requirements of this chapter in accordance
with this section.
   (C)   Initiation. An application for a variance may only be initiated by the
owner(s), of the property for which the variance is designated. Agents of
property owners may apply only after submitting a notarized letter of agency
containing the signatures of all owners holding a beneficial interest in the
property for which the variance is designated.
   (D)   Procedures.
      (1)   Preliminary procedures. The preliminary procedures and requirements
for submission and review of an application are established in §§
152.045 through
152.056 of this chapter.
      (2)   Action by Board of Adjustment. After public notification and the
scheduling of a public hearing, the Board of Adjustment shall conduct a quasi-
judicial public hearing on the application. At the public hearing, the Board of
Adjustment shall consider the application, the relevant support materials and
the sworn testimony given at the public hearing. Within 31 days following the
close of the public hearing, the Board of Adjustment shall approve, approve
with conditions, or deny the application based on the standards in division (E)
below. In accordance with the standards set forth in G.S. § 160A-388(e),
granting a variance shall require an affirmative vote of at least four-fifths
of the members of the Board of Adjustment who are eligible to vote. All
decisions by the Board of Adjustment shall be in writing.
   (E)   Required findings of fact. The Board of Adjustment shall only grant a
variance after having first held a quasi-judicial public hearing on the matter
and having made the following findings of fact in accordance with G.S. § 160A-
388(d):
      (1)   There are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships caused by
the strict application of the chapter requirements;
      (2)   Any practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships are not the
result of the actions of the applicant;
      (3)   The reasons set forth in the application justify the granting of a
variance, and that the variance is the minimum action that will make possible
the reasonable use of the land or structures;
      (4)   The variance is in harmony with the general purpose and intent of
this chapter and preserves its spirit; and
      (5)   In the granting of the variance, the public health, safety and
general welfare have been assured and substantial justice has been done.
   (F)   Insufficient justification for variance. The following circumstances
do not constitute grounds for a variance:
      (1)   The existence of other non-conforming or conforming uses of land or
structures in the same or other districts;
      (2)   The request for a particular use expressly, or by inference,
prohibited in the district; or
      (3)   Economic hardship or the fact that property may be utilized more
profitably with a variance.
   (G)   Conditions of approval. In approving a variance, the Board of
Adjustment may impose additional conditions on the permit approval in
accordance with G.S. § 160A-381. All additional conditions imposed must be
accepted by the applicant.
   (H)   Recordation. The applicant shall, at his or her expense, record the
written decision on the variance in the office of the Register of Deeds of the
county within 30 days of its issuance and provide the town with evidence of its
recordation.
   (I)   Subsequent development. Development authorized by the variance shall
not be carried out until the applicant has secured all other permits required
by this chapter or any other applicable provisions of the town. A variance does
not ensure that the use shall receive subsequent approval for other
applications for permit approval unless the relevant and applicable portions of
this chapter or any other applicable provisions are met.
   (J)   Variance runs with the land. A variance is not a personal right, but
runs perpetually with the land for which the variance has been granted. As
such, the provisions of an approved variance shall continue with the transfer
of ownership of the land.
   (K)   Appeals. Any appeal from the decision of the Board of Adjustment shall
be to the Superior Court for the county by petition for a writ of certiorari.
Any petition to the Superior Court shall be filed with the Clerk of Court no
later than 30 days after the date the decision of the Board of Adjustment is
filed with the Town Clerk, or after the date a written copy of the decision is
delivered (via personal delivery or by registered or certified mail, return
receipt requested) to every aggrieved party who has filed a written request for
such copy with the Board of Adjustment at the public hearing, whichever is
later.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.075  SITE PLAN.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish the procedures
and standards for review and approval of a site plan that depicts site and
building related details and engineering drawings.
   (B)   Applicability. All development activity, unless exempted in accordance
with division (C) below, shall be required to have a site plan approved in
accordance with this section prior to the issuance of a zoning permit.
   (C)   Exemptions. The following development activity shall be exempted from
the requirements of this section:
      (1)   The construction, alteration or modification of a single-family
dwelling or duplex on an individual lot;
      (2)   Internal or external construction that does not increase gross
floor area, building height, the density or intensity of use or affect parking,
landscaping or buffering requirements; and
      (3)   The placement or construction of a detached accessory structure on
a lot containing a single-family dwelling or duplex.
   (D)   Site plan content standards. Site plans submitted to the town must
contain the following information:
      (1)   Property lines, proposed setbacks and proposed lot coverage;
      (2)   Building location(s) and orientation(s);
      (3)   Building massing and roof form;
      (4)   Street layout;
      (5)   Right-of-way width and configuration;
      (6)   Public utility location and sizing;
      (7)   Fire protection infrastructure locations;
      (8)   Landscaping, buffering and tree preservation and protection;
      (9)   Parking, loading and internal circulation layout;
      (10)   Fencing, walls and screening;
      (11)   Open space configuration;
      (12)   Storm water management;
      (13)   Exterior lighting (type and location);
      (14)   Sign location, height and type;
      (15)   Solid waste storage facilities;
      (16)   Locations of existing structures on adjoining parcels; and
      (17)   Current zoning and land use of adjoining parcels.
   (E)   Procedures.
      (1)   Preliminary procedures. The preliminary procedures and requirements
for the submission and review of a site plan are established in §§
152.045 through
152.056 of this chapter.
      (2)   Review of site plan by Ordinance Administrator. The Ordinance
Administrator shall review complete applications for site plans within ten days
of their submission and forward any comments regarding the consistency of the
proposed site plan with this chapter to the applicant and the Planning Board
prior to the meeting at which the site plan will be considered.
      (3)   Review and decision by Planning Board. The Planning Board shall
review complete applications for site plans at its next regularly scheduled
meeting following the Board’s receipt of comments from the Ordinance
Administrator on the proposed site plan’s consistency with this chapter. During
the meeting, the Planning Board shall, by a simple majority vote, approve,
approve with conditions, or deny approval of the site plan based on the
standards in division (F) below.
   (F)   Standards for approval. A site plan shall be approved only upon a
finding by the Planning Board that the site plan meets the following standards:
      (1)   The proposed use (or uses) is allowed in the zoning district in
accordance with §
152.145 of this chapter;
      (2)   The proposed development and uses in the submitted site plan comply
with §§
152.146 through
152.201 of this chapter;
      (3)   The general layout and design of the proposed development in the
submitted site plan complies with all relevant standards of this chapter; and
      (4)   The proposed development complies with all other applicable town
requirements, including town infrastructure standards.
   (G)   Conditions of approval. In approving a site plan, the Planning Board
may impose appropriate conditions on the permit approval in accordance with §§
152.045 through
152.056 of this chapter.
   (H)   Expiration. Site plan approvals shall automatically expire at the end
of two years following the date of its approval if a building permit for at
least one structure in the development is not approved. A change in ownership
of the land shall not effect this time frame.
   (I)   Amendments. An approved site plan may be amended, extended or modified
only in accordance with the procedures and standards established for its
original approval.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.076  SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section and §§
152.350 through
152.362 of this chapter are to promote the health, safety and general welfare
of the residents of the town by:
      (1)   Providing for the orderly growth and development of the town;
      (2)   Coordinating streets and roads within proposed subdivisions with
the town’s street system, NCDOT transportation improvement plans and with other
public facilities and infrastructure;
      (3)   Providing easements and rights-of-way for utilities and future
streets;
      (4)   Avoiding congestion and overcrowding and encouraging the proper
arrangement of streets and other transportation infrastructure in relation to
existing or planned streets;
      (5)   Ensuring that there is adequate open space and recreation
facilities to serve new development; and
      (6)   Ensuring that there is proper recordation of landownership and/or
property owner association records where applicable.
   (B)   Applicability. Unless exempted in accordance with division (C) below,
the following forms of development shall be required to have land subdivided in
accordance with the procedures and standards of this section prior to the
transfer of title or sale of any lots, the issuance of a zoning permit or the
issuance of a building permit for development:
      (1)   The division of land into two or more lots, building sites or other
divisions for the purpose of immediate or future sale, lease or building
development;
      (2)   All divisions of land involving the creation of a new street or the
change or modification of an existing street;
      (3)   Re-subdivision involving the further division or relocation of lot
lines of any lot or lots within an already approved subdivision; and
      (4)   The combination or consolidation of exiting lots of record.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   The following actions shall be exempt from the requirements of this
section:
         (a)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and where the lot sizes comply with the standards set forth in this chapter;
         (b)   The public acquisition of land for public use by purchase of
strips of land for the widening or opening of streets, placement of utilities
or establishment of park land;
         (c)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres in size
where no street right-of-way dedication is involved;
         (d)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is
not greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where no street
right-of-way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to
or exceed the standards of the town as shown in this chapter; and
         (e)   The division of land by court decree.
      (2)   Plats for subdivisions that are exempt from the requirements of
this section shall be submitted to the Ordinance Administrator who shall sign a
certificate of exemption (see § 152.362 of this chapter) on the plat. This
certificate must be signed prior to recordation of the exempt subdivision plat
with the county’s Register of Deeds.
   (D)   Subdivision sketch plan.
      (1)   General. The purpose of this section is to establish the procedures
and standards for consideration of a subdivision sketch plan. The intent of the
sketch plan process is to familiarize the Ordinance Administrator and the
Planning Board with a potential application for subdivision approval and
potential applicants with the applicable process and town standards.
      (2)   Applicability. The standards and requirements of this section shall
be applicable to all applications for the subdivision of land unless
specifically exempted by division (C) above.
      (3)   Exemptions. Applications for minor subdivisions and recombination
plats shall be exempt from the requirements of this section.
      (4)   Required contents of sketch plan. A sketch plan shall consist of a
boundary survey or other graphic depiction of a lot or site’s location relative
to other adjacent lands and streets, along with a graphic depiction of the
proposed development with sufficient detail to allow the town to determine the
range of applicable standards and procedures that will apply to the proposed
development. This depiction shall include, but not be limited to the following:
         (a)   Lot layout;
         (b)   Street network configuration;
         (c)   Ingress and egress;
         (d)   Public utility configuration;
         (e)   Proposed building envelopes;
         (f)   Proposed open space and recreation areas; and
         (g)   Topography and natural features.
      (5)   Review procedures.
         (a)   Review by Ordinance Administrator. The Ordinance Administrator
shall review sketch plans within ten days of the submission of a complete
application by the applicant. The Ordinance Administrator shall submit his or
her comments to the applicant and Planning Board prior to the meeting at which
the Planning Board will review the sketch plan.
         (b)   Review by Planning Board. The Planning Board shall review
submitted sketch plans at its next meeting following the receipt of comments
from the Ordinance Administrator. The Planning Board shall review the sketch
plan and provide written comments and recommendations to the applicant
addressing the consistency of the sketch plan with the requirements of this
chapter to the applicant. Following the receipt of the Planning Board’s
comments and recommendations, the applicant may then submit his or her
application for a preliminary subdivision plat.
   (E)   Subdivision preliminary plat.
      (1)   General. A subdivision preliminary plat establishes the general
layout and design for the subdivision. Upon the approval of a subdivision
preliminary plat, applicants may begin to install streets, public utilities and
other infrastructure. Following installation and approval of all required
infrastructure, applicants may submit an application for a subdivision final
plat. Building permits may not be issued before approval and recordation of a
subdivision final plat.
      (2)   Required contents of preliminary plat. The required contents of a
subdivision preliminary plat are located in §
152.361 of this chapter.
      (3)   Review and approval procedures.
         (a)   Preliminary procedures. The preliminary procedures and
requirements for submission and review of a subdivision preliminary plat are
established in §§
152.045 through
152.056 of this chapter.
         (b)   Review by Ordinance Administrator. Following the submission of a
complete application for preliminary plat approval, the Ordinance Administrator
shall review the application and submit his or her comments to the Planning
Board prior to the meeting at which it will review the application.
         (c)   Review and recommendation by Planning Board. Following the
receipt of comments from the Ordinance Administrator, the Planning Board shall
review the proposed subdivision preliminary plat at its next regularly
scheduled meeting. The Planning Board shall review the application for
consistency with the standards of this chapter and with the recommendations
regarding the sketch plan that it returned to the applicant. Following its
review, the Planning Board shall make a recommendation to the town’s Board of
Commissioners to approve, conditionally approve or deny approval of the
subdivision preliminary plat.
         (d)   Review and decision by Town Board. At its next regularly
scheduled meeting following the receipt of a recommendation from the Planning
Board, the town’s Board of Commissioners shall review and make its decision on
the submitted subdivision preliminary plat. During its review, the Town Board
shall makes its decision to approve, conditionally approve or deny approval of
the preliminary plat based on the standards in division (E)(4) below.
      (4)   Standards for approval. A subdivision preliminary plat shall be
approved upon finding the application complies with the standards in §§
152.350 through
152.362 of this chapter, all other relevant provisions of this chapter and all
other relevant town ordinances, plans and regulations.
      (5)   Effect of approval. Approval of a subdivision preliminary plat
shall constitute approval of the development with the general lot shapes and
alignments of streets identified in the phases depicted on the approved
preliminary plat. Phases not depicted on an approved subdivision preliminary
plat shall not have preliminary plat approval. Approval of a subdivision
preliminary plat allows the subdivider to proceed with the installation of the
required infrastructure and utilities. Approval of a subdivision preliminary
plat does not constitute or guarantee approval of a final plat. The approval of
a subdivision preliminary plat is not a personal right, but one that runs with
the land, and, therefore, changes in ownership of the subject property shall
not alter the effect of the approval.
      (6)   Amendment. A subdivision preliminary plat may be amended or
modified only in accordance with the procedures and standards established for
its original approval.
      (7)   Installation and inspection of required improvements. Following the
construction of all required improvements, or the posting of a performance
guarantee for required improvements that are not installed or completed, the
subdivider shall submit a written request for inspection of those improvements.
When all required public improvements and/or performance guarantees have been
approved by the town, the subdivider may apply for subdivision final plat
approval.
      (8)   Performance guarantees. In lieu of meeting the requirement for the
completion, installation and dedication of any and all public infrastructure
improvements (e.g., underground utilities, streets, sidewalks, storm drainage,
trees, landscaping, buffer plantings, street lights and the like) prior to
subdivision final plat approval, the town may accept a performance guarantee in
accordance with the standards in this section.
         (a)   Form of performance guarantee. Where required, the owner/
developer shall furnish a performance guarantee in any form acceptable to the
Town Attorney. Such forms could include the following.
            1.   Surety performance bond(s). The developer shall obtain a
performance bond(s) from a surety bonding company authorized to do business in
the state and approved by the town’s Board of Commissioners. The bond shall be
payable to the town (or its authorized agent) and shall be in an amount equal
to one and one-half times the entire cost, as a certified estimate by a
licensed design professional and verified by the Town Engineer, of installing
all required improvements. The duration of the bond(s) shall be until such time
as the improvements are accepted by the town. Any expenses associated with the
cost verification by the town shall be paid entirely by the subdivider.
            2.   Cash or equivalent security. The developer shall deposit cash,
an irrevocable letter of credit or other instrument readily convertible into
cash at face value, either with the town (or its authorized agent) or in escrow
with a financial institution designated as an official depository of the town.
The amount of deposit shall be equal to one and one-half times the entire cost,
as certified and estimated by a licensed design professional, and verified by
the town, of installing all required improvements.
         (b)   Escrow guarantee. If cash or other instrument is deposited in
escrow with a financial institution, then the developer shall file with the
town (or its authorized agent) an agreement with the financial institution
guaranteeing the following.
            1.   Exclusivity of funds. The escrow amount will be held in trust
until released by the town and may not be used or pledged by the subdivider in
any other transaction during the term of the escrow.
            2.   Immediate release of funds. In case of a failure on the part
of the subdivider to complete the guaranteed improvements, the financial
institution shall, upon notification by the town of an estimate of the amount
needed to complete the improvements, immediately pay to the town the funds
estimated to complete the improvements, up to the full balance of the escrow
account, or deliver to the town any other instruments fully endorsed or
otherwise made payable in full to the town.
            3.   Default. Upon failure on the part of the subdivider to
complete the required improvements in the time required by this chapter or as
spelled out in the performance bond or escrow agreement, the surety, or
financial institution holding the escrow account, shall, if required by the
town, pay all or any portion of the bond or escrow fund to the town up to the
amount required to complete the improvements based on an estimate by the town.
Upon payment, the town, in its discretion, may expend such portion of these
funds, as it deems necessary to complete all or any portion of the required
improvements. The town shall return to the developer any funds not spent in
completing the improvements.
            4.   Release of guarantee security. The town may release a portion
of any security posted after the improvements are completed and recommended for
approval by the Town Engineer. The town shall approve or disapprove the
improvements within 30 days upon receiving the Town Engineer’s recommendation.
When the town approves the improvements, it shall immediately release the
portion of the security posted which covers the cost of the improvements
approved by the town.
      (9)   Expiration of approval. Preliminary plat approval shall be valid
for a period of 12 months from the date of approval of the plat by the town’s
Board of Commissioners unless an extension of time is applied for and granted
by the Town Board, or unless a longer time period is established under
applicable vested rights provisions. Preliminary plats whose approval has
expired shall be resubmitted in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (F)   Subdivision final plat.
      (1)   General. After the inspection and approval of the required public
improvements or the posting of a performance guarantee for improvements that
are not installed or completed, the subdivider shall prepare a subdivision
final plat for review in accordance with this section. The subdivider shall
receive approval of a subdivision final plat prior to the issuance of building
permits for structures on lots.
      (2)   Required contents of final plat. The required contents of a
subdivision final plat are outlined in §
152.361 of this chapter.
      (3)   Review and approval procedures.
         (a)   Preliminary procedures. The preliminary procedures and
requirements for submission and review of a subdivision final plat are
established in §§
152.045 through
152.056 of this chapter.
         (b)   Review by Ordinance Administrator. Following the submission of a
complete application for final plat approval, the Ordinance Administrator shall
review the application and submit his or her comments to the Planning Board
prior to the meeting at which they will review the application.
         (c)   Review and recommendation by Planning Board. Following the
receipt of comments from the Ordinance Administrator, the Planning Board shall
review the proposed subdivision final plat at its next regularly scheduled
meeting. The Planning Board shall review the application for consistency with
the standards of this chapter and with the approved preliminary plat. Following
its review, the Planning Board shall make a recommendation to the town’s Board
of Commissioners to approve, conditionally approve or deny approval of the
subdivision final plat.
         (d)   Review and decision by Town Board. At its next regularly
scheduled meeting following the receipt of a recommendation from the Planning
Board, the town’s Board of Commissioners shall review and make its decision on
the submitted subdivision final plat. During its review, the Town Board shall
make its decision to approve, recommend modification of or deny approval of the
final plat based on the standards in division (F)(4) below.
      (4)   Standards for approval. The final plat shall:
         (a)   Comply with the standards in §§
152.350 through
152.362 of this chapter;
         (b)   Be in substantial conformity with the approved subdivision
preliminary plat;
         (c)   Comply with all other relevant provisions of this chapter;
         (d)   Be consistent with all other relevant town ordinances and
regulations;
         (e)   Indicate the installation of all required improvements, or
financial guarantee of the installation; and
         (f)   Include all required certificates.
      (5)   Certification. No subdivision final plat may be recorded unless all
relevant certificates, as identified in §
152.362 of this chapter, have been signed by the appropriate officials.
      (6)   Recordation. The subdivider shall file the approved subdivision
final plat with the county’s Register of Deeds for recording, and shall provide
proof of recording to the Ordinance Administrator within 30 days after the date
of approval or the subdivision final plat shall expire.
   (G)   Minor subdivision.
      (1)   General. The minor subdivision procedure shall be utilized for the
subdivision of land into ten or fewer lots provided the development complies
with all of the following:
         (a)   The total land area included within the subdivision is ten acres
or less;
         (b)   No new streets, alleys or other public rights-of-way are
created;
         (c)   No changes are made to the existing streets, alleys or other
rights-of-way;
         (d)   No new utilities are required to be installed to serve the
subdivided land;
         (e)   The division of land complies with §§
152.350 through
152.362 of this chapter; and
         (f)   No flag lots are created.
      (2)   Required contents of minor subdivision plat. A minor subdivision
plat shall contain the same information as required by division (E)(2) above.
      (3)   Review and approval procedures.
         (a)   Preliminary procedures. The preliminary procedures and
requirements for submission and review of a minor subdivision plat are
established in §§
152.045 through
152.056 of this chapter.
         (b)   Review and action by Ordinance Administrator. Applications for
minor subdivisions shall be reviewed and acted on by the Ordinance
Administrator within ten days of the submission of a complete application. The
Ordinance Administrator shall issue his or her decision to approve, require
modification of or deny approval to the application for minor subdivision
approval based on the requirements of division (G)(4) below.
      (4)   Standards for approval. A minor subdivision shall be approved upon
a finding that the application complies with the standards in §§
152.350 through
152.362 of this chapter, as well as all other relevant provisions of this
chapter, and all other relevant town ordinances and regulations.
      (5)   Certification. No minor subdivision plat may be recorded unless all
relevant certificates, as identified in §
152.362 of this chapter, have been signed by the appropriate persons.
      (6)   Recordation. The subdivider shall file the approved minor
subdivision plat with the county’s Register of Deeds for recording, and shall
provide proof of recording to the Ordinance Administrator within 30 days after
the date of approval or the approved plat shall expire.
      (7)   Amendment. A minor subdivision plat may be amended or modified only
in accordance with the procedures and standards established for its original
approval.
   (H)   Recombination plat.
      (1)   General. This section establishes the procedure for review of a
recombination plat, or the resubdivision or re-combination of existing lots
located in an approved and recorded plat.
      (2)   Required contents of recombination plat. A recombination plat shall
contain the same information as required by division (E)(2) above.
      (3)   Review procedure.
         (a)   Preliminary procedures. The preliminary procedures and
requirements for submission and review of a recombination plat are established
in §§
152.045 through
152.056 of this chapter.
         (b)   Review and action by Ordinance Administrator. Applications for
recombination plats shall be reviewed and acted on by the Ordinance
Administrator within ten days of the submission of a complete application. The
Ordinance Administrator shall issue his or her decision to approve, require
modification  of  or deny approval  to the application for recombination plat
approval based on the requirements of division (H)(4) below.
      (4)   Standards for approval. An application for a recombination plat
shall be approved upon a finding of the Ordinance Administrator that the
application complies with the following:
         (a)   All lots comply with the standards and requirements of this
chapter;
         (b)   Drainage, easements and rights-of- way shall not be changed;
         (c)   No existing lots shall be rendered non-conforming;
         (d)   The rear portion of a lot shall not be subdivided from the front
part unless the original lot had frontage on two streets; and
         (e)   The recombination of land shall result in lots that maintain the
character of the surrounding area in terms of size, configuration and general
lot shape.
      (5)   Certification. No recombination plat may be recorded unless all
relevant certificates, as identified in §
152.362 of this chapter, have been signed by the appropriate officials.
      (6)   Recordation. The subdivider shall file the approved recombination
plat with the county’s Register of Deeds for recording, and shall provide proof
of recording to the Ordinance Administrator within 30 days after the date of
approval or the approved plat shall expire.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.077  ZONING PERMITS.
   (A)   Purpose. A zoning permit shall be required in accordance with the
provisions of this section in order to ensure that proposed development
complies with the standards of this chapter, and to otherwise protect the
public health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the town.
   (B)   Applicability. The provisions of this section shall be applicable to
all development within the town’s jurisdiction. No building, sign or other
structure shall be erected, moved, extended, enlarged or structurally altered,
nor any building permit be issued by the county or any other development
activity commence until the Ordinance Administrator has issued a zoning permit
in accordance with this section.
   (C)   Procedure.
      (1)   The applicable requirements for submission and review of an
application are established in §§
152.045 through
152.056 of this chapter. The Ordinance Administrator shall review and approve
or deny an application for a zoning permit in accordance with the standards in
division (D) below.
      (2)   If the application is denied, the reasons for denial shall be
provided to the applicant in writing.
   (D)   Zoning permit standards. A zoning permit shall be approved upon a
finding by the Ordinance Administrator that the application complies with all
relevant standards of this chapter, as well as any other applicable town
requirements and applicable conditions of approval if any were imposed as part
of a preceding approval for the proposed development.
   (E)   Appeals. The appeal of a decision by the Ordinance Administrator on
the issuance of a zoning permit shall be heard by the Board of Adjustment in
accordance with §
152.080 of this chapter.
   (F)   Expiration.
      (1)   For development activity that requires a building permit, the
zoning permit issued for that activity shall expire and be void six months
after the date of its issuance if a building permit has not yet been issued.
      (2)   For development activity that does not require a building permit,
the zoning permit shall expire and be void unless the activity authorized by
the zoning permit has commenced within six months of the date of its issuance.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.078  ZONING CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Purpose. A zoning certificate of compliance shall be required in
accordance with the provisions of this section in order to ensure that proposed
temporary use complies with the standards of this chapter, and to otherwise
protect the public health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the town.
   (B)   Applicability. The provisions of this section shall be applicable to
all carnivals, circuses and fairs within the town’s jurisdiction.
   (C)   Procedure. The applicable requirements for submission and review of an
application are established in §§
152.045 through
152.056 of this chapter. The Ordinance Administrator shall review and approve
or deny an application for a zo ning certificate of compliance in accordance
with the standards in division (D) below. If the application is denied, the
reasons for denial shall be provided to the applicant in writing.
   (D)   Zoning certificate of compliance standards. A zoning certificate of
compliance shall be approved upon a finding by the Ordinance Administrator that
the application complies with all relevant standards of the temporary use.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.079  ORDINANCE INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Authority. Interpretations of all provisions of this chapter shall be
made by the Ordinance Administrator, including: interpretations of the text of
this chapter; interpretations of the zoning district boundaries; interpretation
of compliance with a condition of approval; and interpretations of whether an
unspecified use falls within a use classification, use category or use type
allowed in a zoning district.
   (B)   Initiation. A written interpretation may be requested by the town’s
Board of Commissioners, the Planning Board, the Board of Adjustment, any
resident or landowner or any person having an interest in land in the town.
   (C)   Procedure.
      (1)   Submission of request for interpretation. Before a written
interpretation shall be provided by the Ordinance Administrator, a request for
interpretation shall be submitted to the town in writing.
      (2)   Rendering of interpretation. After the request for interpretation
has been determined to be complete, the Ordinance Administrator shall review
and evaluate the request in light of the Future Land Use Plan, this chapter,
the official zoning district map and other relevant codes and statutes, consult
with the Town Attorney and other affected town staff, and then render an
interpretation.
      (3)   Form. The interpretation shall be in writing, approved as to form
by the Town Attorney, and sent to the applicant by first class mail after the
interpretation is made by the Ordinance Administrator.
   (D)   Appeal. Any aggrieved party objecting to a written interpretation from
the Ordinance Administrator may appeal the interpretation to the Board of
Adjustment in accordance with §
152.080 of this chapter.
   (E)   Official record. The Town Clerk shall maintain a record of written
interpretations that shall be available for public inspection, upon reasonable
request, during normal business hours.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.080  APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS.
   (A)   Right of appeal. Any aggrieved party affected by a decision or
interpretation of the Ordinance Administrator or other administrative official
may appeal such decision or interpretation to the Board of Adjustment in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Initiation. An appeal taken in accordance with this section may be
initiated by filing a written notice of appeal within 30 days of the date of
the decision or interpretation with the Town Clerk.
      (2)   Contents of appeal. The written notice of appeal shall specify the
grounds for the appeal, a statement of the improper decision or interpretation,
the date of that decision or interpretation and all support materials related
to the decision.
      (3)   Record. Upon receipt of the written notice of appeal, the Town
Clerk shall transmit all the papers, documents and other materials relating to
the decision or interpretation appealed to the Board of Adjustment. These
materials shall constitute the record of the appeal.
      (4)   Scheduling of notice and hearing.
         (a)   Upon receipt of a notice of appeal, the Town Clerk shall
schedule a public hearing and provide public notification in accordance with
the standards in §§
152.045 through
152.056 of this chapter.
         (b)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear the appeal at its next
regularly scheduled meeting, based upon established scheduling policy, or as
soon as is reasonably possible.
      (5)   Hearing and decision by Board of Adjustment. At the hearing, the
person making the appeal may appear in person or by agent or attorney, and
shall state the grounds for the appeal and identify any materials or evidence
from the record to support the appeal. The Ordinance Administrator shall be
given an opportunity to respond, as well as any other town staff or other
person the Board of Adjustment deems necessary. In making its determination,
the Board of Adjustment shall consider the application, the relevant support
materials and the testimony given at the public hearing. Within 30 days
following the close of the public hearing, the Board of Adjustment shall
affirm, partly affirm, modify or reverse the decision or interpretation, based
on the record and the requirements and standards of this chapter. Modifying or
reversing the decision being appealed shall require an affirmative vote of at
least four-fifths of the members of the Board of Adjustment who are eligible to
vote as set forth in G.S. § 160A-388(e). All decisions by the Board of
Adjustment shall be in writing and shall be filed by the Town Clerk within five
days from the date the decision is made.
   (C)   Effect of appeal. A pending appeal stays all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed, unless the Ordinance Administrator
certifies to the Board of Adjustment after the notice of appeal is filed, that
by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would cause imminent peril
to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise
than by a restraining order, which may be granted by a court of competent
jurisdiction, on notice to the Ordinance Administrator and on due cause shown.
   (D)   Appeal.
      (1)   Any appeal from the decision of the Board of Adjustment shall be to
the Superior Court for the county by petition for a writ of certiorari.
      (2)   Any such petition to the Superior Court shall be filed with the
Clerk of Court no later than 30 days after the date the decision of the Board
of Adjustment is filed by the Town Clerk, or after the date a written copy of
the decision is delivered (via personal delivery or by registered or certified
mail, return receipt requested) to every aggrieved party who has filed a
written request for such copy with the Board of Adjustment at the public
hearing, whichever is later.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.081  ESTABLISHMENT OF VESTED RIGHTS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide a procedure
allowing a landowner to apply for the right to develop land in accordance with
a previously-approved site-specific development.
   (B)   Applicability. Vested rights, in accordance with this section, and
G.S. § 160A-385.1, shall only be available to a landowner with a legally-
established and approved site-specific development plan. For the purposes of
this division (B), a site-specific development plan shall include the
following:
      (1)   Development subject to an approved special use permit;
      (2)   Development subject to a minor subdivision plat;
      (3)   Development subject to a subdivision preliminary plat; or
      (4)   Development subject to a site plan.
   (C)   Procedure.
      (1)   Application submission, review and public notification. The
applicable requirements for submission and review of an application are
established in §§
152.045 through
152.056 of this chapter.
      (2)   Review and recommendation by Planning Board. Following a review by
the Ordinance Administrator, the application shall be referred to the Planning
Board for review and recommendation. During the meeting, the Planning Board
shall consider the application, the relevant support materials and any public
comments given on the application. Within 45 days of the first meeting on an
application, the Planning Board shall make a written recommendation to the
town’s Board of Commissioners (unless a longer review period is established by
mutual agreement of the applicant and Planning Board). In addition to making a
recommendation as to approval or denial of the application and the appropriate
period of time to vest a site-specific development plan, the Planning Board may
also recommend the imposition of conditions on the approval in accordance with
§
152.050 of this chapter. In no instance shall the application proceed to the
public hearing before the town’s Board of Commissioners without a
recommendation by the Planning Board.
      (3)   Review and decision by the town’s Board of Commissioners. After
receipt of a recommendation from the Planning Board, public notification and
the scheduling of a public hearing, the town’s Board of Commissioners shall
conduct a public hearing on the application. At the public hearing, the town’s
Board of Commissioners shall consider the application, the relevant support
materials, the recommendation of the Planning Board and the testimony given at
the public hearing. After the close of the public hearing, the town’s Board of
Commissioners shall, by four-fifths majority of those present and eligible to
vote, approve, approve with conditions or deny the application based on the
standards in §
152.080(D) of this chapter. In the event the application is approved, the
town’s Board of Commissioners shall establish the vesting period, which shall
not exceed a maximum of five years from the date of approval of the
establishment of vested rights.
   (D)   Vested rights standards.
      (1)   The town’s Board of Commissioners shall only grant vested rights in
accordance with this section after making the following findings of fact:
         (a)   The site-specific development plan was lawfully established and
approved in the appropriate manner by the appropriate decision- making body;
         (b)   The site-specific development plan has not expired;
         (c)   All required variances, if any, included as a condition of
approval of a site-specific development plan have been obtained; and
         (d)   The site-specific development plan provides sufficient
information to establish the types and intensity of proposed development with
reasonable certainty.
      (2)   In approving the establishment of vested rights, the town’s Board
of Commissioners may extend the two-year vested rights period to a period of up
to five years, where warranted in light of all relevant circumstances,
including, but not limited to, the size and phasing of development, economic
cycles and market conditions.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
§ 152.095  PURPOSE.
   This subchapter establishes procedures through which the town seeks to
ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter and obtain corrections
for chapter violations. It also sets forth the remedies and penalties that
apply to violations of this chapter. The provisions of this chapter are
intended to encourage the voluntary correction of violations, where possible.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.096  COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   Compliance with all the procedures, standards and other provisions of this
chapter is required by all persons owning, developing, managing, using or
occupying land or structures within the town’s jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.097  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Violations generally.
      (1)   Failure to comply with ordinance or term or condition of approval
constitutes ordinance violation. Any failure to comply with a standard,
requirement, prohibition or limitation imposed by this chapter, or the terms or
conditions of any permit or other development approval or authorization granted
in accordance with this chapter shall constitute a violation of this chapter
punishable as provided in this chapter.
      (2)   Permits or permit approvals only authorize specified development.
Permits or permit approvals issued by a decision-making body authorize only the
use, arrangement, location, design, density or intensity and development set
forth in such permits or development approvals.
   (B)   Specific violations. It shall be a violation of this chapter to
undertake any land development activity contrary to the provisions of this
chapter, including, but not limited to, any of the following:
      (1)   Developing land or a structure without first obtaining the
appropriate permit or permit approval;
      (2)   Occupying or using land or a structure without first obtaining the
appropriate permit or permit approval;
      (3)   Developing land or a structure without complying with the terms or
conditions of the permit or permit approval required to engage in development;
      (4)   Occupying or using land or a structure in violation of the terms or
conditions of the permit or permit approval;
      (5)   Subdividing land without first obtaining the appropriate permit or
permit approval required to engage in the subdivision;
      (6)   Subdividing land without complying with the terms or conditions of
the permit or permit approval required to engage in the development;
      (7)   Excavate, cut, clear or undertake any land disturbing activity
without first obtaining all appropriate permits and permit approvals, and
complying with their terms and conditions; and
      (8)   Install, create, erect, alter or maintain any sign without first
obtaining the appropriate permit or permit approval;
      (9)   Fail to remove any sign installed, created, erected, altered or
maintained in violation of this chapter, or for which the permit has expired;
      (10)   Create, expand, replace or modify any non-conformity, except in
compliance with this chapter;
      (11)   Reduce or diminish the requirements for development, design or
dimensional standards below the minimum requirements of this chapter;
      (12)   Increase the intensity or density of development, except in
accordance with the standards of this chapter; and
      (13)   Through any act or omission, fail to comply with any other
provisions, procedures or standards required by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.098  RESPONSIBLE PERSONS.
   Any person who violates this chapter shall be subject to the remedies and
penalties set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.099  ENFORCEMENT GENERALLY.
   (A)   Responsibility for enforcement. The Ordinance Administrator shall be
responsible for enforcing the provisions of this chapter in accordance with
G.S. §§ 160A-174, 160A-175 and 160A-193.
   (B)   Complaints regarding violations. Whenever a violation of this chapter
occurs, or is alleged to have occurred, any person may file a complaint. The
complaint, stating fully the cause and basis therefor, shall be filed with the
Ordinance Administrator, who shall properly record such complaint, investigate
and take appropriate action as provided by this chapter.
   (C)   Enforcement procedures.
      (1)   Notice of violation.
         (a)   When the Ordinance Administrator finds a violation of this
chapter, he shall take appropriate action to remedy the violation consistent
with §
152.999(A) of this chapter. The Ordinance Administrator shall notify, in
writing, the person violating this chapter. Such notification shall indicate:
               1.   The nature of the violation;
               2.   Order the necessary action to abate the violation; and
               3.   Give a deadline for correcting the violation.
         (b)   The final notice of violation (the initial notice of violation
may also be the final notice of violation) shall state what course of action is
intended if the violation is not corrected within the time frame specified by
the Ordinance Administrator. The notice of violation shall also advise the
violator of his or her rights to appeal the notice of violation to the Board of
Adjustment (BOA) within 30 days of the date the final notice of violation was
issued.
      (2)   Application of remedies and penalties. If the owner, occupant or
person responsible for the violation fails to comply with the final notice of
violation from which no appeal has been taken within 30 days, as provided in
the notification, the Ordinance Administrator shall take appropriate action, as
provided in §
152.999(A) of this chapter, to correct and abate the violation and to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
   (D)   Statute of limitations. The state’s General Assembly passed a bill
signed into law by the Governor limiting enforcement of zoning violations. The
bill became law in 2017 and is effective 10-1-2018. The law creates a five-year
and a seven-year limitation for enforcing zoning violations, dependent upon on
the circumstances of a violation.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Statute of Limitations/Land Use Violations, Senate Bill 0131: Section 2.15
(a) (Five years); Section 2.15(b) (Seven years); Section 2.15(c) (Effective
date).)
NON-CONFORMITIES
§ 152.110  GENERAL APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Purpose and scope.
      (1)   General. In the provisions established by this chapter, there exist
uses of land, structures, lots of record and signs that were lawfully
established before this chapter was adopted or amended, that now do not conform
to its terms and requirements. The purpose and intent of this chapter is to
regulate and limit the continued existence of those uses, structures, lots of
record and signs that do not conform to the provisions of this chapter, or any
subsequent amendments.
      (2)   Permit, but not encourage non- conformities to continue. It is the
intent of this chapter to permit most of these non-conformities to continue
until they are removed, but not to encourage their survival, except under the
limited circumstances established in this subchapter. The provisions of this
subchapter are designed to curtail substantial investment in non-conformities.
   (B)   Authority to continue. Non-conformities are allowed to continue in
accordance with the requirements of this subchapter, and are encouraged to
receive routine maintenance as a means of preserving safety and appearance.
   (C)   Determination of non-conforming status. In all cases, the burden of
establishing that a non- conformity lawfully exists shall be the responsibility
of the owner of the land on which the alleged non- conformity is located.
   (D)   Minor repairs and maintenance. Minor repairs and normal maintenance
that are required to keep non-conforming uses, structures, lots of record and
signs in a safe condition are permitted; provided, the minor repair or
maintenance does not extend, expand or enlarge the non-conforming use,
structure, lot of record or sign. For the purposes of this section, MINOR
REPAIR OR NORMAL MAINTENANCE shall mean:
      (1)   Maintenance of safe condition. Repairs that are necessary to
maintain a non-conforming use, structure, lot of record or sign in a safe
condition; and
      (2)   Maintenance of land for safety. Maintenance of land areas to
protect against health hazards and promote the safety of surrounding land,
structures and uses.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.111  NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   General. Non-conforming uses are declared generally incompatible with
the permitted uses in the district in which they are located and with the
provisions of this chapter. Non-conforming uses shall be subject to the
standards in this section.
   (B)   Change of use. A non-conforming use shall not be changed to any other
non-conforming use. Once a non-conforming use has ceased to operate or been
discontinued for a period of 180 days or longer, it shall only be replaced with
a conforming use.
   (C)   Expansion and enlargement. Except in accordance with this section, a
non-conforming use shall not be enlarged, expanded in area occupied or
intensified. An existing non-conforming use may be enlarged into any portion of
the structure where it is located; provided, the area proposed for expansion
was designed and intended for such use prior to the date the use became a non-
conformity. Such expansion may only be authorized through the review and
approval of a site plan.
   (D)   Discontinuance. A non-conforming use shall not be re-established after
discontinuance for a period of 180 consecutive calendar days or more. Efforts
to renovate or repair the use are not considered a vacancy, abandonment or
discontinuance; provided, all appropriate development approvals are obtained
and provided the renovation or repair is completed within 180 days from
commencement or repair or renovation, and the use is re-established within 30
days from the time the renovation or repairs are completed. Failure to complete
the repairs or renovation within 180 days or re-establish the use within 30
days following repairs or renovation shall constitute discontinuance and a non-
conforming use shall not be re-established.
   (E)   Accessory uses. Once a non-conforming principal use is discontinued,
all associated accessory uses shall cease operations within 30 days.
   (F)   Reconstruction after casualty damage.
      (1)   Destruction or damage beyond 50% of tax value.
         (a)   In the event a structure housing a non-conforming use is damaged
or destroyed, by any means, to an extent more than 50% of its structural
replacement cost (tax value) at the time of damage or destruction, shall only
be restored in a manner that conforms with the provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   New construction (including the establishment of off-street
parking, landscaping, signage and other site features) shall be in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Damage of 50% or less of tax value.
         (a)   In the event a structure housing a non-conforming use is damaged
or destroyed, by any means, to an extent of 50% or less of its structural
replacement cost (tax value) at the time of damage or destruction, it may be
re-built to its previous form if a building permit for such repair or
restoration is obtained within 180 days of the casualty damage and repair or
restoration is actually begun within one year after the date of such partial
damage or destruction and is diligently pursued to completion.
         (b)   In no event shall repair or restoration increase the degree of
non-conformity.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.112  NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   General. A non-conforming principal structure containing a conforming
use may only continue in accordance with the provision of section. For a non-
conforming principal structure and a non-conforming use see §
152.111 of this chapter.
   (B)   Continuation. Normal repair and maintenance may be performed to allow
the continued use of non-conforming structures.
   (C)   Enlargement. A non-conforming structure shall not be enlarged or
expanded in any way that increases the degree of non-conformity. (For example,
a structure that has a five-foot side yard setback where the chapter requires a
ten-foot side yard setback cannot be enlarged so as to further encroach into
the side yard setback.) Expansion of the structure in a way that complies with
applicable dimensional standards or that decreases the degree of non-
conformity is permitted.
   (D)   Relocation. A non-conforming structure shall not be moved, in whole or
in part, to another location within the town’
   (E)   Reconstruction after casualty damage.
      (1)   Destruction or damage beyond 50% of tax value.
         (a)   In the event a non-conforming structure (or portion of a
structure) is damaged or destroyed, by any means, to an extent more than 50% of
its structural replacement cost (tax value) at the time of damage or
destruction, it shall only be restored in a manner that conforms with the
provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   New construction (including the establishment of off-street
parking, landscaping, signage and other site features) shall be in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Damage of 50% or less of tax value.
         (a)   In the event a non-conforming structure is damaged or destroyed,
by any means, to an extent of 50% or less of its structural replacement cost
(tax value) at the time of damage or destruction, it may be re-built to its
previous form if a building permit for such repair or restoration is obtained
within 180 days of the casualty damage, and repair or restoration is actually
begun within one year after the date of such partial damage or destruction and
is diligently pursued to completion.
         (b)   In no event shall repair or restoration increase the degree of
non-conformity.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.113  NON-CONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   No use or structure shall be established on a non- conforming lot of record,
except in accordance with the standards in this section.
   (A)   Status of structures on non-conforming lots.
      (1)   Conforming structures legally established on a non-conforming lot
prior to 3-2-2009 may be continued, enlarged, extended, reconstructed or
structurally altered in any way that is in conformance with the standards of
this chapter.
      (2)   Non-conforming structures legally established on a non-conforming
lot prior to the effective date of this chapter may be continued, enlarged or
redeveloped only in accordance with the standards in §
152.112 of this chapter.
   (B)   Development of unimproved lots.
      (1)   Residential districts. In the residential zoning districts,
notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this chapter, a
single-family detached dwelling and customary accessory structures may be
developed on any single lot of record existing on 3-2-2009. This provision
applies even if the lot of record fails to comply with the standards for area
or width in §
152.134 of this chapter. Development of a single-family detached dwelling on
the lot of record shall comply with the other standards in §
152.134 of this chapter, to the maximum extent practicable.
      (2)   Non-residential districts. In the non- residential zoning
districts, notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this
chapter, a permitted use may be developed on any single non- conforming lot of
record existing on 3-2-2009, or the date the lot of record became non-
conforming, subject to review and approval of a special use permit. This
provision shall apply even though the lot of record fails to comply with the
standards for lot area that are applicable in the zoning district. In
considering the application for a special use permit, the Board of Adjustment
shall ensure the design and location of the proposed use is compatible with
surrounding uses. Development of the permitted use on the lot of record shall
comply with the other standards in §
152.134 of this chapter, to the maximum extent practicable.
      (3)   Recombination required. In the event that a vacant non-conforming
lot is located adjacent to a lot under common ownership, and the adjacent lot
has sufficient size to allow for a lot line adjustment as a means of bringing
the vacant lot closer into conformity with the requirements of the zoning
district where its located, then such lot line adjustment shall be required as
a condition of approval for development on the vacant non-conforming lot.
   (C)   Development of improved lots in residential districts after casualty.
If a legally established single-family attached or detached use is destroyed by
casualty on a non-conforming lot in a residential zoning district that was part
of a subdivision or division of land evidenced by plat or deed, or both,
recorded prior to 3-2-2009, an identical replacement use may be reconstructed
within the same footprint as the use destroyed by casualty even though the lot
does not meet the minimum lot area or lot width requirements.
   (D)   Governmental acquisition of land in a residential district.
Governmental acquisition of a portion of a lot for a public purpose that
results in a reduction in lot width and/or lot area below that required in §
152.134 of this chapter shall not render the lot non-conforming.
   (E)   Change of non-conforming lot. A non- conforming lot may be increased
in area, width or both, through a lot line adjustment in accordance with the
requirements of the recombination plat procedures, to make the lot less non-
conforming.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.114  NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   General standards. No non-conforming sign shall be used, erected,
altered, repaired or relocated, except in accordance with the standards of this
section.
   (B)   Non-conforming signs protected.
      (1)   Any sign that was lawfully erected prior to 3-2-2009, but that does
not conform in one or more respects with the requirements of this chapter may
remain in use, subject to the requirements of this section and other applicable
requirements of this chapter. No activity that increases the amount of non-
conformity shall be permitted.
      (2)   A non-conforming sign may not be moved or replaced, except to bring
the sign into complete conformity with this chapter. Once a non- conforming
sign is removed from the premises or otherwise taken down or moved, the sign
may only be replaced with a sign that is in conformance with this chapter.
   (C)   Routine repairs and maintenance.
      (1)   Repairs and maintenance of non- conforming signs, such as
repainting and electrical repairs, shall be permitted; provided, such
activities are completed in accordance with the requirements in §§
152.330 through
152.335 of this chapter; and, provided that, the cost of repairs do not exceed
50% of the replacement value of the sign.
      (2)   Non-conforming signs representing a danger to the public health or
safety as determined by the Ordinance Administrator shall be immediately
replaced or removed and replacement signage shall comply with all requirements
of this chapter.
   (D)   Replacement required. In the event there is a change in use to an
existing building (except multi-tenant buildings), and there are one or more on
premise non-conforming signs which advertised the former or current business or
use, the new occupant shall replace all existing non-conforming signs with new
signs or new sign faces that meet all sign requirements for the district.
   (E)   Damage or destruction greater than 50% of tax value. In the event that
a non-conforming sign is damaged or destroyed from natural causes to an extent
that exceeds 50% of the sign’s tax value, then the sign shall only be restored,
repaired or reconstructed in accordance with the standards of §§
152.330 through
152.335 of this chapter. In no instance shall any remnants of the former non-
conforming sign structure remain on the site.
   (F)   Damage or destruction less than 50% of tax value. In the event a non-
conforming sign is damaged to an extent less than 50% of the sign’s tax value,
the sign may be repaired in accordance with division (C) above.
   (G)   Abandonment.
      (1)   If a non-conforming on premise sign that is affiliated with a
business, service, commodity, accommodation, attraction or other enterprise or
activity that has for a period of at least 180 days not been operated,
conducted or offered, that sign shall be deemed abandoned and shall be removed
or brought into compliance by the sign owner, landowner or other person having
control over the sign within 30 days.
      (2)   If a non-conforming sign remains blank for a continuous period of
180 days, that sign shall be deemed abandoned and shall, within 30 days after
such abandonment, be brought into compliance with this chapter or be removed by
the sign owner, owner of the land where the sign is located, or other person
having control over the sign. For purposes of this chapter, a sign shall be
deemed “blank” if:
         (a)   It is associated with a business, commodity, accommodation,
attraction service or other enterprise or activity that is no longer operating
or being offered or conducted in that location; or
         (b)   The display becomes illegible in whole or substantial part.
      (3)   Signs associated with a structure that has been demolished or a
business that has been moved to another site shall be removed within 60 days
following demolition or relocation. In the event an existing use or structure
has been demolished or moved to facilitate new construction, all signage
associated with the new construction shall comply with the standards in §§
152.330 through
152.335 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.115  NON-CONFORMING SITE FEATURES.
   The following provisions shall apply to expansions or changes in use on lots
with non- conforming site features.
   (A)   Landscaping requirements. If there is an expansion to the heated
square footage of an existing use by 25% or more, the lot shall fully comply
with all requirements in §§
152.270 through
152.278 of this chapter.
   (B)   Off-street parking requirements. Expansions to off-street parking
areas which increase the total number of off-street parking spaces by 25% or
more, including cumulative expansions following the effective date of this
chapter, shall be required to comply with all applicable regulations in §§
152.215 through
152.221,
152.235 through
152.242,
152.255,
152.270 through
152.278 and
152.310 through
152.317 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
ZONING
§ 152.130  ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Divisions. All property within the jurisdiction of the town shall be
divided into zoning districts as outlined in this subchapter.
   (B)   Purpose and intent. The districts enumerated by this subchapter are
established and intended to provide a comfortable, healthy, safe and pleasant
environment in which to live, work or recreate. More specifically, they are
intended to:
      (1)   Provide appropriately located lands for residential development
that are consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of the Future Land
Use Plan;
      (2)   Provide appropriately located lands for the full range of non-
residential uses needed by the town’s residents, businesses and workers,
consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of the Future Land Use Plan;
      (3)   Provide for residential housing choice and diversity with varying
density together with accessory structures, and non-residential services as may
be compatible with such development;
      (4)   Create neighborhoods and preserve existing community character
while accommodating new development consistent with the town’s goals and
objectives;
      (5)   Minimize any negative impacts of non- residential development on
residential districts and uses;
      (6)   Create suitable environments for various types of commercial uses
and protect them from the adverse effects of incompatible uses;
      (7)   Create suitable environments for various types of mixed-use
development, where business, office, retail and residential uses are designed
and integrated in compatible ways; and
      (8)   Preserve the unique character and historic resources of the
downtown.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.131  GENERAL USE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Agricultural District (AG). The Agricultural District is established
for the purpose to protect working farmland and continuation of agricultural
uses until urban density development becomes appropriate for the area. Limited
residential development on large lots is permitted within the AG District;
however, major residential subdivisions are prohibited. Specifically, it is the
intent of this district to:
      (1)   To protect working farmland from encroachment by dense residential
development that may be incompatible with agricultural uses; and
      (2)   To discourage the premature conversion of land from rural and
agricultural uses to urban uses and densities.
   (B)   Residential-3 District (R-3). The Residential-3 (R-3) District is
intended to accommodate single-family, duplex and other creative residential
developments on smaller lots. The minimum lot area size within this district is
restricted to 3,000 square feet.
   (C)   Residential-10 District (R-10). The Residential-10 (R-10) District is
intended to accommodate a mix of detached residential development along with
multi-family development and a limited amount of complimentary institutional
and non-residential uses that would not be detrimental to the residential
character of the district (such as parks, churches and day care centers). The
minimum lot area size within this district is restricted to 10,000 square feet.
Non-residential structures may be constructed in this district only with a
special use permit, and may not exceed 10,000 square feet in gross floor area.
   (D)   Residential-15 District (R-15). The Residential-15 (R-15) District is
intended to accommodate low-density detached residential development along with
a limited amount of complimentary institutional and non-residential uses that
would not be detrimental to the residential character of the district (such as
parks, churches and day care centers). This district is designed to also allow
residential development in areas that are primarily rural and agricultural in
nature. Therefore, the density of residential development specifically in these
rural and agricultural areas should promote the maximum amount of compatibility
between residential and rural/agricultural uses. The minimum lot area size
within this district is restricted to 15,000 square feet. Non-residential
structures with a gross floor area of up to 10,000 square feet are allowed
within this district by right, and non-residential structures with gross floor
areas of 10,001 to 25,000 square feet may be constructed with a special use
permit.
   (E)   Central Business District (CB). The Central Business (CB) District is
designed for application to the traditional core downtown area of the town. It
is intended to accommodate a wide range of commercial, governmental,
professional, civic and residential uses at densities and intensities
appropriate for its prominent central location in town. Within this district,
vertically mixed-use development is encouraged, such as retail establishments
on ground floors with professional offices or residences on upper stories.
Development patterns within this district will be pedestrian friendly and
automobile dependent uses will be discouraged.
   (F)   General Commercial District (GC). The General Commercial (GC) District
is intended to accommodate a wide range of residential, commercial
establishments and professional offices that provide goods and services to the
residents of the town and the surrounding area, as well as transient visitors.
This district is meant to be applied to the following distinct areas:
      (1)   Areas adjacent to major thoroughfares and in locations that will
not adversely impact nearby residential development;
      (2)   Areas in close proximity to residential areas to encourage and
accommodate pedestrian travel to obtain convenience goods and services; and
      (3)   Areas adjacent to major transportation arteries.
   (G)   Office and Institutional District (OI). The Office and Institutional
(OI) District is intended to accommodate a wide range of residential,
professional, civic, educational and governmental uses. Typically, this
district will serve as a transitional district between higher intensity and
lower intensity uses. Given the town’s role as the governmental, medical and
educational center of the county, this district is also tailored to provide the
maximum accommodation possible to the needs of those uses that form the
foundation of the town’s prominent role in the region.
   (H)   Industrial District (I). The Industrial (I) District is intended to
facilitate the growth of industrial development in the town’s jurisdiction.
Specifically, this district is meant to accommodate industrial, transportation
and warehousing uses which do not, by their nature, cause excessive or
environmentally detrimental pollution, including air pollution and water
pollution, or emit excessive amounts of light, dust, odors, noise or other
environmental pollutants that would cause an undue burden to the residents of
the town and the surrounding area.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.132  OVERLAY DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Historic Overlay District (HK). Reserved for future Historic Overlay
District (HK).
   (B)   Manufactured Housing Overlay (MHO).
      (1)   Purpose and intent. The Manufactured Housing Overlay (MHO) District
is established as a means of providing reasonable opportunities for the
placement of manufactured dwellings in the town’s zoning jurisdiction. More
specifically, the district is intended to:
         (a)   Provide alternative, affordable housing opportunities for low
and moderate-income residents in residential areas by allowing for the use of
manufactured dwellings;
         (b)   Establish requirements designed to assure acceptable similarity
in exterior appearance between manufactured dwellings and single-family
dwellings constructed on adjacent or nearby lots;
         (c)   Protect property values and preserve the character and integrity
of the community or individual neighborhoods within the community; and
         (d)   Require new manufactured dwellings to meet the minimum
requirements for manufactured dwellings in §
152.167(B) of this chapter.
      (2)   Establishment.
         (a)   The Manufactured Housing Overlay (MHO) District shall be
established in accordance with G.S. § 160A-383.1.
         (b)   The MHO shall include the areas of S. Church Street, Fennell
Street and Southerland Street.
      (3)   Overlay district standards.
         (a)   Mobile homes built prior to 6-15-1976 do not meet U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) certification guidelines.
         (b)   These generally do not meet conversion standards.
         (c)   There are some exceptions to this rule.
         (d)   Tying in converts a mobile home into real property, which is
recorded at the County Assessor’s office and incurs annual property taxes.
      (4)   Development authorized.
         (a)   Land within an MHO District may accommodate the following types
of uses:
            1.   A single manufactured home on an individual lot configured in
accordance with §
152.167(B) of this chapter;
            2.   A principal use authorized in the underlying zoning district
in accordance with §
152.145 of this chapter; and
            3.   An accessory or temporary use associated with an allowed
principal use.
         (b)   Manufactured homes located on lots or sites outside of a MHO
District shall be considered non-conforming in accordance with §
152.111 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.133  GENERAL LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Compliance with this chapter required. No building or portion of a
building shall be erected, used, moved or altered, except in conformity with
the standards in this chapter.
   (B)   Pre-existing lots. Lots established prior to 3-2-2009 shall only be
required to meet the setback provisions for the base-zoning district in which
they are located, and shall be exempt from the other minimum lot size or lot
width requirements.
   (C)   Reduction prohibited. Except as required through the establishment of
new public rights-of-way (such as roadway widening) or approved as a variance,
no yard or lot existing on 3-2-2009 shall be reduced in size or area below the
minimum requirements of the base and overlay zoning district where it is
located.
   (D)   Street access. All lots shall front upon, and have access to, a public
or private street built in accordance with the town’s standards.
   (E)   Double frontage and flag lots prohibited. Double frontage lots and
flag lots shall be prohibited, except where required due to extreme topographic
circumstances or site conditions.
   (F)   Yard determination on irregular lots.
      (1)   The location of required front, side and rear yards on irregularly
shaped lots shall be determined by the Ordinance Administrator.
      (2)   The determination shall be based on the spirit and intent of this
chapter to achieve an appropriate spacing and location of buildings and
structures on individual lots.
   (G)   Allowable yard encroachments for residential uses. Building features
and architectural elements may encroach into required yards or setbacks only in
accordance with the following standards.
      (1)   Balconies, stoops, open porches, bay windows, steps, mechanical
units, raised doorways and similar architectural features are permitted to
encroach into a required yard or setback a maximum of four feet.
      (2)   First floor encroachments shall not extend into the right-of-way.
      (3)   Side yard encroachments shall not be closer than five feet to a lot
line.
      (4)   Attached and unenclosed decks or porches serving a single-family
residential use may encroach into a required rear setback or yard under the
following conditions.
         (a)   The deck or porch shall be set back a minimum of ten feet from
the rear lot line.
         (b)   The deck or porch shall not be enclosed or otherwise made into
heated floor space unless it meets the setbacks for the principal structure.
         (c)   No portion of the structure shall protrude into a required side
yard.
         (d)   Existing single-family residential structures with decks or
porches encroaching into a setback or required yard shall be allowed to replace
the feature; provided, it does not increase the non- conformity of the
structure.
   (H)   Height limitation exceptions.
      (1)   The height limitations of this chapter shall not apply to public
buildings, religious institutions, schools, hospitals, belfries, cupolas and
domes not intended for residential purposes, nor to monuments, water towers,
observation towers, power transmission towers, flag poles and similar
structures; provided, such structures meet the required State Building Code.
      (2)   Height limitations shall apply to wireless communication towers as
regulated herein.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.134  DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS.
   The following tables outline the dimensional standards required in the
general use districts set forth by this subchapter.
   (A)   Dimensional standards for agricultural and residential districts.
Dimensional Standards for Agricultural and Residential Districts
 AG R-3 R-10 R-15
Dimensional Standards for Agricultural and Residential Districts
                            AG     R-3   R-10   R-15
Minimum lot size (sq. ft.)  43,560 3,000 10,000 15,000
Minimum lot width (ft.)
   Interior lot          150    50*   60*    80
   Corner lot            150    55*   65*    85
Minimum front setback (ft.) 50     20    30     30
Minimum rear setback (ft.)  20     10    10     10
Minimum side setback (ft.)
   Interior side         20     5     10     10
   Corner side           30     10    15     15
Maximum height (ft.)        35     35    35     35
NOTES TO TABLE:
*Not applicable to townhomes. Please refer to §
152.167(D) of this chapter for dimensional standards.
 
   (B)   Dimensional standards for non-residential districts.
Dimensional Standards for Non-Residential Districts
                           CB GC    OI    I
Minimum lot size (sq. ft.)  0  5,000 5,000 40,000
Minimum lot width (ft.)
   Interior lot          0  60    60    100
   Corner lot            0  65    65    110
Minimum front setback (ft.) 0  20    20    50
Minimum rear setback (ft.)  0  20    20    50
Minimum side setback (ft.)
   Interior side         0  5     5     20
   Corner side           5  10    10    30
Maximum height (ft.)        40 40    30    40
 
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
USE STANDARDS
§ 152.145  USE TABLE.
   (A)   General. This section sets forth the allowable uses for the
residential and non-residential zoning districts as described in §§
152.130 through
152.134 of this chapter.
   (B)   Explanation of the structure of the use table.
      (1)   Organization of use table. The Use Table is arranged into a number
of categories that group uses by their functional classification such as
residential or commercial.
      (2)   Permitted uses. A “P” in a cell indicates that a use type is
allowed by right in the respective base zoning district, subject to compliance
with any use-specific standards contained in this subchapter.
      (3)   Special uses. An “S” in a cell indicates that a use type is allowed
in the respective base zoning district only upon the issuance of a special use
permit by the Board of Adjustment, and subject to compliance with any use-
specific standards contained in this subchapter.
      (4)   Prohibited uses. A blank cell indicates that a particular use type
is not allowed in the base zoning district.
      (5)   Development standards.
         (a)   A “D” in a cell, accompanying a “P” or an “S” indicates that the
particular use type has additional development standards that are required for
the use to be established within the base-zoning district.
         (b)   These additional standards are located in §§
152.146 through
152.201 of this chapter.
      (6)   Uses prohibited by overlay zoning.
         (a)   An overlay district may prohibit a particular use type despite
it being allowed in the base zoning district, or it may require a special use
permit for a use allowed by right in the base zoning district.
         (b)   See §
152.132 of this chapter for specific information on the modification of
permitted uses in the overlay districts.
      (7)   Uses not listed.
         (a)   Uses not listed in the Use Table may be allowed upon a
determination by the Ordinance Administrator that the use is similar in nature
to an existing, listed use that is permitted in the district in which the
unlisted use will be established.
         (b)   In making such determination, the Ordinance Administrator shall
take into account the purpose and intent of this chapter and the purpose of the
district in which the unlisted use is to be established, along with any
relevant definitions that exist in the UDO.
         (c)   The Ordinance Administrator shall recommend text amendments to
the Planning Board for their review upon determining that the Use Table would
benefit from the addition of an unlisted use.
         (d)   If the Ordinance Administrator denies a permit for the
establishment of an unlisted use, the decision may be appealed to the Board of
Adjustment as an appeal of the Ordinance Administrator’s decision.
Uses by District
P - Use permitted by right
S - Use permitted by a special use permit
D - Additional development standards apply
Blank - Use not allowed
Uses AG R-3 R-10 R-15 OI CB GC I
Uses by District
P - Use permitted by right
S - Use permitted by a special use permit
D - Additional development standards apply
Blank - Use not allowed
Uses                                               AG R-3 R-10 R-15 OI CB GC I
Accessory Uses
 Accessory dwelling unit                          PD PD  PD   PD   PD PD PD
 Accessory uses and structures (customary)        P  P   P    P    P  P  P  P
 Home occupations (customary)                     PD PD  PD   PD   PD PD PD
 Livestock                                        PD
 Swimming pools                                   PD PD  PD   PD   PD    PD
Agricultural Uses
 Agricultural production, crops                   P  P   P    P    P  P  P  P
 Livestock, agricultural production               PD
 Forestry                                         P      P    P    P  P  P  P
 Horticultural production                         P           P
 Produce stands                                   P                      P
 Veterinary services (livestock)                  P
Commercial Uses
 Adult entertainment                                                     SD
 Alcoholic beverage control (ABC) stores                              P
 Animal shelters                                                         P
 Auction houses                                                    PD PD P
 Automobile repair and service centers (no                            PD PD
  gasoline sales)
 Automobile repair and service centers (with                          PD PD
  gasoline sales)
 Automobile sales, rental and leasing                                 PD PD
 Automobile supply stores                                             P  P
 Automobile towing and storage                                           P
 Banks and credit unions                                      PD   PD P
 Barber shops and salons                                           P  P
 Bars, nightclubs and similar establishments                       SD SD
 Bed and breakfast inns                           PD PD  PD   PD   PD PD PD
 Car washes                                                           PD P
 Convenience stores (with gasoline sales)                             PD PD
 Convenience stores (no gasoline sales)                            P  P  P
 Contractors offices (no outside storage)                     P    P  P  P
 Contractors offices (with outside storage)                           PD P
 Crematoriums                                                         SD PD
 Drug stores and pharmacies (with drive-through                       P
  service)
 Drug stores and pharmacies (no drive-through                 PD   P  P
  service)
 Dry cleaners                                                      PD PD
 Equipment rental and leasing (no outside                             PD P
  storage)
 Equipment rental and leasing (with outside                           SD P
  storage)
 Equipment repair services (no outside storage)                       PD P
 Equipment repair services (with outside storage)                     SD P
 Farm equipment sales and service                 PD                        P
 Farm and agricultural supplies, retail                                  PD P
 Fuel oil sales, retail                           SD                     SD P
 Funeral homes (no crematory services)                   SD   SD   PD    P
 Garden centers and nurseries, retail             S                      P
 Gasoline sales, retail (no repair or service                            PD P
  facilities)
 General merchandise stores                                           P  P
 Grocery stores                                                       P  P
 Hardware and home improvement stores                                    P  P
 Home furnishings stores                                              P  P
 Hotels and motels                                                    P  P
 Insurance agencies (with on-site claims                                 PD P
  inspection)
 Kennels, commercial                                                     SD P
 Landscaping services                             S                      S  P
 Laundromats                                                             PD
 Manufactured home sales, new                                               PD
 Medical and dental offices and laboratories                       P  P  P
 Medical treatment centers                                         P  P  P
 Motorcycle sales                                                        P  P
 Movie theaters                                                       P  P
 Pawnbrokers                                                             P
 Personal services establishments (not otherwise                      P  P
  classified)
 Professional offices (not otherwise classified)                   P  P  P
 Recreational vehicle sales                                              S  P
 Restaurants (no drive-through service)                               P  PD
 Restaurants (with drive-through service)                                P
 Retail sales (not otherwise classified)                              P  P
 Specialty food and beverage stores                                   P  P
 Tire sales, retail (no outside storage)                                 P  P
 Tattoo and body piercing establishment                                  SD
 Truck stops                                                             SD P
 Vending stations, unmanned                                              PD
 Veterinary services (domestic animals)           S                      P  P
Governmental, Educational and Institutional Uses
 Ambulance/EMS stations                           P  SD  SD   P    P  P  P
 Assisted living/nursing facilities                  PD  PD   P    P  S
 Amphitheaters                                                P    P
 Auditoriums                                                  P    P  P
 Cemeteries                                       P           P    P  P  P
 Churches/religious institutions                  P  PD  PD   P    P  P
 Civic or fraternal organizations                        S    P    P  P
 Colleges and universities                                    P
 Conference and event centers                                 P
 Day care centers, adult (29 or less)                PD  PD   P       S
 Day care centers, adult (30 or more)                         S       S
 Day care centers, child (29 or less)                PD  PD   P       S
 Day care centers, child (30 or more)                SD  SD   P       S
 Fire stations                                    P  SD  SD   P    P  P  P
 Government offices and facilities                   SD  SD   P    P  P  P
 Hospitals                                                    P    P
 Libraries                                           SD  SD   P    P  P
 Museums                                                      P    P  P
 Police stations                                              P       P
 Post offices                                        SD  SD   P    P  P
 School, dance academy, art                          PD  PD   P    P  P
 School, elementary                               S  PD  PD   P
 School, middle high                              S      PD   P
 School, senior high                              S      PD   P
 School, trade or vocational                                  P       P  P
Industrial and Manufacturing Uses
 Agricultural supply and equipment manufacturing                            P
 Apparel manufacturing                                                      S
 Athletic and sporting equipment assembly                                   P
 Bookbinding                                                                P
 Computer and electronics assembly                                          P
 Drug and pharmaceutical manufacturing                                      P
 Electrical equipment and machinery assembly                                P
 Engineering, scientific and research instrument                            P
  assembly
 Industrial laundry services                                                S
 Industrial research, development and testing                               P
  services
 Light industrial and manufacturing uses (not                               S
  otherwise classified)
 Metal fabrication and welding, light                                       S
 Office supply and equipment assembly                                       P
 Optical equipment manufacturing                                            P
 Plastic forming, pressing and assembly                                     S
 Printing and publishing                                                    P
 Sign manufacturing                                                         P
 Surgical, medical and dental equipment                                     P
  manufacturing
Recreational Uses
 Commercial recreation, indoor                                     P  P
 Commercial recreation, outdoor                   P                   P  S
 Country club                                     SD     SD
 Golf course                                      S      S
 Golf driving range                               SD                  SD
 Horse stables/riding academies                   P
 Public park                                      P  P   P    P    P  P
 Public recreation facility, indoor                  P   P    P
 Public recreation facility, outdoor              P  P   P    P
 Shooting range, indoor                                               SD SD
 Shooting range, outdoor                          SD                     SD
Residential Uses
 Boarding and rooming houses                                  SD         SD
 Dwelling, single-family detached                 P  P   P    P       P  P
 Dwelling, duplex                                    P   P    P       P  P
 Dwelling, multi-family                                  PD   PD      PD PD
 Dwelling, townhouse                                 PD  PD   PD      PD PD
 Dwelling, live/work                                 PD  PD   PD   PD PD PD
 Dwelling, upper story loft                                        P  P  P
 Dwelling, manufactured home, Class A (see
  “Overlay District”)
 Family care home                                 PD PD  PD   PD      PD PD
 Group care facility                                               SD    SD
 Manufactured home park                           SD
Temporary Uses
 Carnivals, circuses and fairs                    PD               PD       PD
 Flea markets and swap meets                      SD                        S
 Livestock                                                                  PD
 Portable self storage containers                 PD PD  PD   PD
 Religious events                                 P  P   P    P    P  P  P  P
 Seasonal sales (Christmas trees, pumpkins and    PD               PD    P  P
  the like)
 Temporary construction trailers                  PD PD  PD   PD   PD PD PD PD
 Yard sales (2 per year)                          P  P   P    P    P  P  P  P
Transportation, Warehousing and Utility Uses
 Bulk mail or parcel handling facilities                                    P
 Communication lines and exchanges                P      S    S    P  P  P  P
 Moving and storage services                                                P
 Public utility lines, pump stations, towers and  P      P    P    P  P  P  P
  related equipment
 Sewage treatment plants                                                    P
 Self-storage facilities                                                 SD P
 Truck and freight terminals                                                P
 Utility equipment and storage yards                                        P
 Warehouses and distribution centers                                        P
 Water treatment plants                                                     P
 Wireless telecommunications facilities           PD     PD   PD   PD    PD PD
  (including small/micro antennas/equipment)
Wholesale Uses
 Wholesale agricultural chemical, pesticide and   SD                        S
  fertilizer sales
 Wholesale agricultural supply sales              SD                        P
 Wholesale agricultural product sales             SD                        P
 Wholesale bottled gas sales                                                S
 Wholesale chemical and allied product sales                                S
 Wholesale petroleum and petroleum product sales                            S
 Wholesale scrap and waste material sales                                   S
 Wholesale uses (not otherwise classified)                                  P
 
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.146  ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT.
   (A)   Where required. These requirements shall apply to accessory dwelling
units in the AG, R-3, R-10, R-15, OI, CB and GC Districts.
   (B)   General provisions. The following requirements shall apply to all
accessory dwelling units, whether attached or detached.
      (1)   Design standards.
         (a)   No more than one accessory dwelling unit is permitted on the
same zone lot with a principal dwelling unit.
         (b)   The accessory dwelling unit and principal dwelling unit shall
have the same address and use the same mailbox.
         (c)   Accessory dwelling units are only allowed on lots containing a
detached single-family dwelling.
         (d)   Accessory dwelling units shall not be subdivided or otherwise
segregated in ownership from that of the primary residence.
         (e)   The accessory dwelling unit shall have a maximum of two
bedrooms.
         (f)   The accessory dwelling unit shall be designed to maintain the
architectural design, style, appearance and character of the principal
residence. The accessory dwelling unit shall incorporate design elements of the
principal residence by using similar and compatible materials, facade
treatment, colors, window style/treatment and roof design and pitch.
      (2)   Dimensional requirements.
         (a)   The principal residence must be located on a lot that meets the
minimum area requirements of the zoning district.
         (b)   Accessory dwelling units shall be located at least 20 feet from
any other structure on the lot.
         (c)   Accessory dwelling units may not encroach into any required
setback area.
      (3)   Utilities and access.
         (a)   Accessory dwelling units shall be served by the same utilities,
such as public water and sewer service as the principal dwelling on the lot.
         (b)   Accessory dwelling units shall be served by the same driveway
access as the principal dwelling.
      (4)   Other standards. Accessory dwelling units shall not exceed 50% of
the gross floor area of the principal dwelling. In no case shall an attached
accessory dwelling unit exceed 600 square feet of gross floor area, nor shall a
detached accessory dwelling unit exceed 1,000 square feet of gross floor area.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.147  ADULT ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   Where required. These requirements shall apply to adult entertainment
establishments in the I District.
   (B)   Separation requirements.
      (1)   No adult entertainment establishment may be located within 1,000
feet of any other adult entertainment establishment.
      (2)   No adult entertainment establishment shall be located within 500
feet of any religious institution, school, residence, public park or child day
care center.
   (C)   Maximum area. No adult entertainment establishment shall exceed 3,000
square feet of gross floor area.
   (D)   Prohibition of sleeping quarters. No adult entertainment establishment
shall have sleeping quarters for employees or patrons.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.148  AMBULANCE/EMS STATIONS.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the R-10 and R-15
Districts.
   (B)   Building setback. A minimum setback of 30 feet shall be required
between all structures and adjoining property lines of adjacent residentially
zoned or used property.
   (C)   Buffering. A Type II buffer shall be established along all side and
rear property lines adjacent to residentially zoned or used property.
   (D)   Building design standards. Structures shall be designed so that they
respect the residential character of the area in which they are located. To
achieve this, the following standards shall apply.
      (1)   Exterior building materials. No exterior wall, which is visible
from a public right-of-way or an adjoining residentially zoned or used
property, may be finished with plywood, corrugated or sheet metal, stucco,
cinder block or other materials which are not normally used to finish the
exterior walls of single-family dwellings. The use of brick or split-faced
block is highly encouraged.
      (2)   Roofs.
         (a)   A minimum roof pitch of 5/12 is required.
         (b)   Roofing materials must be of a similar style and color as those
of surrounding residences.
   (E)   Waste disposal. Medical or other hazardous waste that is stored for
collection on-site must be stored in a secure area that is not accessible to
the public.
   (F)   Prohibited accessory uses and activities. The following accessory uses
and activities are prohibited:
      (1)   Vehicle or equipment washing;
      (2)   Vehicle repair and service;
      (3)   Vehicle fueling facilities; and
      (4)   Wireless communication antennas greater than 40 feet tall.
   (G)   Access. Access to the facility must be from a thoroughfare or
collector street.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.149  ASSISTED LIVING/NURSING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the R-10 and R-15
Districts.
   (B)   Building setback. A minimum setback of 30 feet shall be required
between all structures and adjoining property lines of adjacent residentially
zoned or used property.
   (C)   Buffering. A Type II buffer shall be established along all side and
rear property lines adjacent to residentially zoned or used property.
   (D)   Building design standards. Structures shall be designed so that they
respect the residential character of the area in which they are located. To
achieve this, the following standards shall apply.
      (1)   Exterior building materials. No exterior wall, which is visible
from a public right-of-way or an adjoining residentially zoned or used
property, may be finished with plywood, corrugated or sheet metal, stucco,
cinder block or other materials which are not normally used to finish the
exterior walls of single- family dwellings. The use of brick or split-faced
block is highly encouraged.
      (2)   Roofs.
         (a)   A minimum roof pitch of 5/12 is required.
         (b)   Roofing materials must be of a similar style and color as those
of surrounding residences.
   (E)   Waste disposal. Medical or other hazardous waste that is stored for
collection on-site must be stored in a secure area that is not accessible to
the public.
   (F)   Access. Access to the facility must be from a thoroughfare or
collector street.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.150  AUCTION HOUSES.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the CB and GC
Districts.
   (B)   Storage. All goods must be stored within the confines of the auction
house.
   (C)   Loading area. An off-street loading area must be provided. The loading
and unloading of goods shall not be permitted on public streets.
   (D)   Hours of operation/noise.
      (1)   While viewing hours are not regulated, auctions may only be held
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
      (2)   Additionally, no speaker, megaphone or other amplification device
may be utilized to broadcast the auction outside of the auction house.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.151  AUTOMOBILE REPAIR AND SERVICE CENTERS.
   (A)   Automobile repair and service centers (no gasoline sales).
      (1)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the GC and I
Districts.
      (2)   Outdoor vehicle storage limits.
         (a)   In the GC District, no more than 15 vehicles may be stored
outdoors overnight.
         (b)   In the I District, no more than 30 vehicles may be stored
outdoors overnight.
      (3)   Location of outdoor storage. Outdoor vehicle storage areas must be
located on the rear portion of the lot.
      (4)   Screening. A minimum six-foot high opaque fence shall be erected
around all outdoor vehicle storage areas.
      (5)   Outdoor parts storage. No automobile parts, accessories or other
products may be stored outdoors, except within a properly screened outdoor
storage area.
      (6)   Long-term storage prohibited. Inoperable vehicles may not be stored
on the premises for more than 30 days.
   (B)   Automobile repair and service centers (with gasoline sales).
      (1)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the GC and I
Districts.
      (2)   Outdoor vehicle storage limits.
         (a)   In the GC District, no more than 15 vehicles may be stored
outdoors overnight.
         (b)   In the I District, no more than 30 vehicles may be stored
outdoors overnight.
      (3)   Location of outdoor storage. Outdoor vehicle storage areas must be
located on the rear portion of the lot.
      (4)   Screening. A minimum six-foot high opaque fence shall be erected
around all outdoor vehicle storage areas.
      (5)   Outdoor parts storage. No automobile parts, accessories or other
products may be stored outdoors, except within a properly screened outdoor
storage area.
      (6)   Long-term storage prohibited. Inoperable vehicles may not be stored
on the premises for more than 30 days.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.152  AUTOMOBILE SALES, RENTAL AND LEASING.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the GC and I
Districts.
   (B)   Vehicle display areas. No vehicle displayed for sale, rental or lease
may be stored in any required customer or employee parking space, a street
right-of- way, required landscaping or buffering area or on any pervious
surface.
   (C)   Vehicle setback. No vehicle displayed for sale, rental or lease may be
located within ten feet of the edge of the right-of-way.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.153  BANKS AND CREDIT UNIONS.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the OI and CB
Districts.
   (B)   Drive-through teller service. A maximum of three service lanes for
drive up windows, remote teller service or automatic teller machine (ATM)
service shall be allowed. The point of service of the lanes shall be no closer
than 75 feet from any residentially zoned or used property.
   (C)   Buffering. A Type III buffer shall be constructed along all property
lines adjoining residentially zoned or used property where a drive- through
service lane is established.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.154  BARS, NIGHTCLUBS AND SIMILAR ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the CB and GC
Districts.
   (B)   Separation requirements. No such establishment shall be located within
100 feet, as measured from the closest exterior wall of the structure housing
the establishment, of a religious institution, elementary school, public park,
child day care or residentially zoned property.
   (C)   Orientation. The primary entrance of the establishment shall be
located facing a street zoned primarily for non-residential use.
   (D)   Screening. A minimum six-foot high opaque fence shall be erected along
all property lines adjacent to residentially used property.
   (E)   Parking. Parking areas shall not be located any closer than 30 feet
from the property line of any residentially used property.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.155  BED AND BREAKFAST INNS.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the AG, R-3, R-10,
R-15, OI, CB and GC Districts.
   (B)   On-site management. All establishments are required to be operated by
a resident manager.
   (C)   Qualified structures. Only structures that were originally constructed
as a residence may be used as a bed and breakfast inn.
   (D)   Maximum number of rooms. Within the R-3, R-10 and R-15 Districts, a
maximum of four bedrooms may be utilized at any one time in the operation of
the bed and breakfast inn.
   (E)   Kitchen facilities. No separate kitchen facilities may be provided for
any patron.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.156  BOARDING AND ROOMING HOUSES.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the R-15 and GC
District.
   (B)   On-site management. All establishments are required to be operated by
a resident manager.
   (C)   Qualified structures. Only structures that were originally constructed
as a residence may be used as a boarding or rooming house.
   (D)   Maximum number of rooms. A maximum of four bedrooms may be utilized at
any one time in the operation of the boarding or rooming house.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.157  CAR WASHES.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the GC District.
   (B)   Hours of operation. The hours of operation shall be limited to the
hours between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. when the establishment is located within
100 feet of the property line of an adjoining residence. Establishments that
are open to the public after sunset must provide security lighting.
   (C)   Setbacks. No structure or service facility may be located closer than
75 of the property line of any adjoining residentially zoned or used property.
   (D)   Buffering. A Type II buffer must be established along all property
lines adjoining a property used for residential purposes.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.158  CARNIVALS, CIRCUSES AND FAIRS.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the AG, OI and I
Districts.
   (B)   Hours of operation. The hours of operation shall be limited to the
hours between 9:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m.
   (C)   Separation. No structures, rides, lights, booths or other facilities
associated with the carnival, circus or fair may be erected or placed within
500 feet of the property line of any residentially used property. Vehicle
parking areas may be located no less than 200 feet of the property line of any
residentially used property.
   (D)   Zoning certificate of compliance. All carnivals, circuses and fairs
must receive a zoning certificate of compliance from the Ordinance
Administrator.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.159  CHURCHES/RELIGIOUS INSTITUTIONS.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the R-10 and R-15
Districts.
   (B)   Access. New churches or religious institutions with more than 5,000
square feet of gross floor area or more than 50 parking spaces shall have a
primary access point on a thoroughfare or collector road.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.160  CONTRACTORS OFFICE (WITH OUTSIDE STORAGE).
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the GC District.
   (B)   Screening. A minimum six-foot high opaque fence must be erected around
all outside storage areas.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.161  CONVENIENCE STORES (WITH GASOLINE SALES).
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the GC and I
Districts.
   (B)   Maximum size. Establishments shall be limited to 2,000 square feet of
gross floor area.
   (C)   Gasoline service islands. No more than one gasoline service island
with two gasoline pumps shall be allowed.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.162  COUNTRY CLUBS.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the AG District.
   (B)   Setbacks. All clubhouses, recreational facilities other than golf
courses, service facilities and parking areas shall be located no closer than
100 feet from adjoining residences.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.163  CREMATORIUMS.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the GC and I
Districts.
   (B)   Separation requirements. No crematory facilities may be located any
closer than 500 feet of any residentially zoned or used property.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.164  DAY CARE CENTERS.
   (A)   Day care centers, adult (29 or less).
      (1)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the R-10 and R-
15 Districts.
      (2)   Access. Establishments shall have a primary access point on a
thoroughfare or collector road.
      (3)   Loading/unloading. A passenger loading/unloading area with a
vehicle turnaround or additional point of access shall be provided.
   (B)   Day care centers, child (29 or less).
      (1)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the R-3, R-10
and R-15 Districts.
      (2)   Access. Establishments shall have a primary access point on a
thoroughfare or collector road.
      (3)   Loading/unloading. A passenger loading/unloading area with a
vehicle turnaround or additional point of access shall be provided.
      (4)   Outdoor activity areas. All outdoor activity areas shall be
enclosed by a minimum four-foot high fence. Activity areas shall not encroach
into any street right-of-way. When located adjacent to residentially zoned or
used property the activity area, a minimum six-foot high opaque fence shall be
erected along the portion of the property that abuts the residential property.
   (C)   Day care centers, child (30 or more).
      (1)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the R-10 and R-
15 Districts.
      (2)   Access. Establishments shall have a primary access point on a
thoroughfare or collector road.
      (3)   Loading/unloading. A passenger loading/unloading area with a
vehicle turnaround or additional point of access shall be provided.
      (4)   Outdoor activity areas.
         (a)   All outdoor activity areas shall be enclosed by a minimum four-
foot high fence. Activity areas shall not encroach into any street right-of-
way.
         (b)   When located adjacent to residentially zoned or used property
the activity area, a minimum six-foot high opaque fence shall be erected along
the portion of the property that abuts the residential property.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.165  DRUG STORES AND PHARMACIES (NO DRIVE-THROUGH SERVICE).
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the OI District.
   (B)   Maximum size. The gross floor area of an establishment shall not
exceed 4,000 square feet.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.166  DRY CLEANERS.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the CB and GC
Districts.
   (B)   Maximum size. The gross floor area of an establishment shall not
exceed 2,000 square feet.
   (C)   Buffering. A Type II buffer shall be constructed along all property
lines adjoining residentially used property where a drive-through service lane
is established.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.167  DWELLINGS.
   (A)   Dwellings, live/work.
      (1)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the R-3, R-10,
R-15, OI, CB and GC Districts.
      (2)   Regulations for non-residential space. Areas used for non-
residential uses shall be located only on the first floor of the structure.
Only one customer entrance is allowed and must face a public street.
      (3)   Regulations for residential space. No more than one residential
unit shall be allowed per structure.
      (4)   Internal access. An internal access must be provided between the
residential and non- residential portions of the structure.
      (5)   Parking. All on-site parking shall be located at the rear of the
structure. Garages built into the structure may be accessed only through a rear
access way.
   (B)   Dwelling, manufactured home.
      (1)   Intent.
         (a)   It is the intent of this section to address the specific
criteria that must be met to place a mobile home or manufactured home within
the Manufactured Housing Overlay District in the town.
         (b)   The terms “manufactured home” and “mobile home” do not include a
“recreational vehicle”.
      (2)   Requirements. Homes that do not meet the criteria set forth shall
not be located within the town’s jurisdiction.
         (a)   Conforming manufactured home. Before issuing a zoning compliance
permit for a mobile home, the Town Manager shall certify that the home meets
the following standards.
            1.   The pitch of the home’s roof shall have a minimum vertical
rise of two feet for each 12 feet of horizontal run. The roof shall be finished
with a type of shingle that is commonly used in residential construction. The
minimum width shall be 14 feet. All transportation lights and towing apparatus
shall be removed before a certificate of occupancy is issued.
            2.   Manufactured homes must be underpinned. The home must be
placed on a permanent foundation of masonry materials such as brick, block or
stone.
            3.   The exterior siding shall consist of wood, hardboard or
aluminum (vinyl covered or painted, but in no case exceeding the reflectivity
of gloss white paint) comparable in composition, appearance and durability to
the exterior siding commonly used in standard residential construction.
            4.   A deck or a porch of at least 36 square feet in size must be
located on the front of the home and must include steps.
            5.   A legal non-conforming mobile home may be replaced with a
similar or higher or better mobile home; provided, the replacement is permitted
within 180 days of the removal of the existing mobile home. The replacement
mobile home may not increase any dimensional non-conformity enjoyed by the
existing mobile home.
         (b)   Non-conforming manufactured home. Before issuing a zoning
compliance permit for a legal non-conforming mobile home, the Town Manager
shall certify the following: a single or doublewide manufactured housing unit
existing in the town, prior to the effective date of this chapter that meets
the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development manufactured home
construction standards, but does not meet the town’s appearance criteria. Such
manufactured homes may only be relocated to currently conforming mobile home
parks that existed prior to the effective date of this chapter. At that time,
the home must be underpinned with masonry materials and installed in accordance
with the manufacturer’s specifications.
   (C)   Dwelling, multi-family.
      (1)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the R-10, R-15,
CB and GC Districts.
      (2)   Minimum area. The minimum lot size shall be 200% of the minimum lot
size of the base zoning district for the first three units and 75% of the
minimum lot size of the base zoning district for each additional unit above
three.
      (3)   Maximum number of units per structure. No more than eight dwelling
units are allowed per individual structure.
      (4)   Structure separation. Structures must be separated by a minimum of
20 feet.
      (5)   Setbacks. One story structures must be set back at least 20 feet
from all adjoining property lines and multiple story structures must be set
back an additional ten feet per story. A minimum ten-foot setback is required
from all vehicle parking areas and a 15-foot setback is required from internal
driveways.
      (6)   Access. Multi-family developments must have direct access to a
thoroughfare or collector street.
      (7)   Buffering. A Type II buffer must be established along all property
lines adjoining property zoned or used for residential purposes. A buffer is
not required on property lines adjoining other property that has been developed
with multi-family dwellings or townhouses.
      (8)   Internal driveways. Internal driveways shall be at least 15 feet
wide for one-way travel and 22 feet wide for two-way travel.
   (D)   Dwelling, townhouse.
      (1)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the R-3, R-10,
R-15, CB and GC Districts.
      (2)   Minimum area. The minimum project area shall be 200% of the minimum
lot size of the base zoning district for the first three units, plus an
additional area of 75% of the minimum lot size of the base zoning district for
each additional unit above three.
      (3)   Maximum number of units per structure. No more than eight dwelling
units are allowed per individual structure.
      (4)   Minimum dwelling width. Individual dwelling units shall be no less
than 18 feet wide and no greater than 35 feet wide.
      (5)   Access. Townhouse developments must have direct access to a
thoroughfare or collector street. Townhouses may also have a back alley access
to accommodate rear-loaded garages.
      (6)   Buffering.
         (a)   A Type II buffer must be established along all property lines
adjoining property zoned or used for residential purposes.
         (b)   A buffer is not required on property lines adjoining other
property that has been developed with multi-family dwellings.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.168  EQUIPMENT RENTAL, LEASING AND REPAIR.
   (A)   Equipment rental and leasing (with outside storage).
      (1)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the GC District.
      (2)   Screening. A minimum six-foot high opaque fence shall be erected
around all outdoor storage areas.
      (3)   Outdoor storage areas. Outdoor storage areas are allowed only in
rear yards.
   (B)   Equipment repair services (with outside storage).
      (1)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the GC District.
      (2)   Screening. A minimum six-foot high opaque fence shall be erected
around all outdoor storage areas.
      (3)   Outdoor storage areas. Outdoor storage areas are allowed only in
rear yards.
      (4)   Long-term storage prohibited. Inoperable equipment may not be
stored in outdoor storage areas for more than 30 days.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.169  FAMILY CARE HOME.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the AG, R-3, R-10,
R-15, CB and GC Districts.
   (B)   Maximum height. The structure of a family care home may be no more
than two stories high, and none of the aged or physically disabled persons
being served there may be housed in the upper story without provision for two
direct exterior ground level accesses to the upper story.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 131D-2.1
§ 152.170  FARM AND AGRICULTURAL SUPPLIES, RETAIL.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the GC District.
   (B)   Screening. A minimum six-foot high opaque fence shall be erected
around all outdoor storage areas.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.171  FARM EQUIPMENT SALES AND SERVICE.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the AG District.
   (B)   Separation. Establishments may not be located any closer than 200 feet
from a structure used for residential purposes.
   (C)   Equipment display areas. Equipment displayed for sale must be located
outside of the street right-of-way.
   (D)   Long-term storage prohibited. The storage of inoperable equipment for
longer than 30 days is prohibited.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.172  FIRE STATIONS.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the R-10 and R-15
Districts.
   (B)   Access. Fire stations must have direct access to either a thoroughfare
or collector street.
   (C)   Building setback. A minimum setback of 30 feet shall be required
between all structures and adjoining property lines of adjacent residentially
zoned or used property.
   (D)   Buffering. A Type II buffer shall be established along all side and
rear property lines adjacent to residentially zoned or used property.
   (E)   Building design standards. Structures shall be designed so that they
respect the residential character of the area in which they are located. To
achieve this, the following standards shall apply.
      (1)   Exterior building materials. No exterior wall, which is visible
from a public right-of-way or an adjoining residentially zoned or used
property, may be finished with plywood, corrugated or sheet metal, stucco,
cinder block or other materials which are not normally used to finish the
exterior walls of single- family dwellings. The use of brick or split-faced
block is highly encouraged.
      (2)   Roofs.
         (a)   A minimum roof pitch of 5/12 is required.
         (b)   Roofing materials must be of a similar style and color as those
of surrounding residences.
   (F)   Waste disposal. Medical or other hazardous waste that is stored for
collection on-site must be stored in a secure area that is not accessible to
the public.
   (G)   Prohibited accessory uses and activities. The following accessory uses
and activities are prohibited:
      (1)   Vehicle or equipment washing;
      (2)   Vehicle repair and service;
      (3)   Vehicle fueling facilities; and
      (4)   Wireless communication antennas greater than 40 feet tall.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.173  FLEA MARKETS AND SWAP MEETS.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the AG District.
   (B)   Separation. No portion of the area used for a flea market or swap
meet, including parking areas shall be located within 200 feet of a residential
structure.
   (C)   Hours of operation. Hours of operation shall be limited to the hours
between 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
   (D)   Other regulations. All permanent, enclosed structures must meet the
state’s Building and Fire Codes. Temporary structures, tables and booths must
be removed from the premises within 24 hours of the closing of the market. Flea
markets and swap meets may only be operated on a particular location for six
days in any 30-day period.
   (E)   Outdoor storage prohibited. No goods may be stored outdoors on the
premises of the flea market or swap met, except during the days of operation.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.174  FUEL OIL SALES, RETAIL.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the AG and GC
Districts.
   (B)   Separation. Bulk fuel oil tanks may not be constructed within 300 feet
of a property zoned or used for residential purposes.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.175  FUNERAL HOMES (NO CREMATORY SERVICES).
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the R-10, R-15 and
OI Districts.
   (B)   Maximum size. Funeral homes are limited to a maximum of 4,000 square
feet of gross floor area.
   (C)   Waste disposal. Medical or other hazardous waste that is stored for
collection on-site must be stored in a secure area that is not accessible to
the public.
   (D)   Buffering. A Type II buffer shall be established along all property
lines adjoining residentially zoned or used property.
   (E)   Access. Funeral homes must have direct access to either a thoroughfare
or collector street.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.176  GASOLINE SALES, RETAIL (NO REPAIR OR SERVICE FACILITIES).
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the GC District.
   (B)   Gasoline service islands. No more than one gasoline service island
with two gasoline pumps shall be allowed.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.177  GOLF DRIVING RANGE.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the AG and GC
Districts.
   (B)   Setbacks. Tee areas must be located at least 50 feet from any street
right-of-way.
   (C)   Range area. When located within 1,000 feet of a street right-of-way,
the range area shall be constructed so that it is as close to perpendicular to
the street as possible.
   (D)   Lighting. Lighting shall be turned off between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 6:30 a.m.
   (E)   Netting. Netting shall be provided in those areas where it is possible
that a golf ball may travel onto adjoining property or streets.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.178  GOVERNMENT OFFICES.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the R-10 and R-15
Districts.
   (B)   Building setback. A minimum setback of 30 feet shall be required
between all structures and adjoining property lines of adjacent residentially
zoned or used property.
   (C)   Buffering. A Type II buffer shall be established along all side and
rear property lines adjacent to residentially zoned or used property.
   (D)   Building design standards. Structures shall be designed so that they
respect the residential character of the area in which they are located. To
achieve this, the following standards shall apply.
      (1)   Exterior building materials.
         (a)   No exterior wall, which is visible from a public right-of-way or
an adjoining residentially zoned or used property, may be finished with
plywood, corrugated or sheet metal, stucco, cinder block or other materials
which are not normally used to finish the exterior walls of single-family
dwellings.
         (b)   The use of brick or split-faced block is highly encouraged.
      (2)   Roofs.
         (a)   A minimum roof pitch of 5/12 is required.
         (b)   Roofing materials must be of a similar style and color as those
of surrounding residences.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.179  GROUP CARE FACILITY.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the OI and GC
Districts.
   (B)   Separation. No group care facility shall be established within 1,500
feet of any other group care facility.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.180  HOME OCCUPATIONS (CUSTOMARY).
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the AG, R-3, R-10,
R-15, OI and CB Districts.
   (B)   Maximum area. Area set aside for the home occupation shall occupy no
more than 25% of the gross floor area of the dwelling unit.
   (C)   Outdoor storage. No outdoor storage or display of items associated
with the home occupation is permitted.
   (D)   Operation.
      (1)   The home occupation shall be conducted entirely within a dwelling
unit exclusive of a garage or carport. It shall be clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling unit for residential purposes and shall
not change the outward appearance of the residence. Home occupations or any
accessory storage are not permitted in a detached garage or in any other
accessory structures.
      (2)   Permitted home occupations include, but are not limited to: typing
services; telephone sales; barber/beauty services; doctor/dentist offices;
architects; accountants; attorneys; family day care (five or less persons);
food catering; and handcrafting.
      (3)   Only hand-made items, foodstuffs and crafts made in the dwelling
unit may be offered for sale on the premises. No goods, products or commodities
brought into the dwelling unit for purposes of resale shall be sold on the
premises.
      (4)   Only one person may be employed who is not an occupant of the
residence.
      (5)   Instructions in music, dancing, art or similar subjects shall be
limited to no more than five students at one time.
      (6)   Activities shall not generate traffic, parking, noise, vibration,
glare, fumes, odors or electrical interference beyond what normally occurs in
the district in which it is located.
      (7)   One commercial vehicle, and a trailer upon which equipment can be
stored, neither of which shall exceed 24 feet in length, may be allowed in
conjunction with the home occupation. No maintenance or repair of commercial
equipment associated with the home occupation shall be conducted on the
property.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.181  INSURANCE AGENCIES (WITH ON-SITE CLAIMS INSPECTIONS).
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the GC District.
   (B)   Inspection area. All claims inspections must take place in a fully
enclosed structure.
   (C)   Screening. Areas used to store vehicles must be surrounded by a
minimum six-foot high opaque fence.
   (D)   Long-term storage. No vehicle may be stored on the premises for more
than 30 days.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.182  KENNELS, COMMERCIAL.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the GC District.
   (B)   Separation. No commercial kennel shall be established within 200 feet
of a residentially zoned or used property.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.183  LAUNDROMATS.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the GC District.
   (B)   Maximum size. Laundromats are limited to a maximum of 2,000 square
feet of gross floor area.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.184  LIBRARIES.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the R-10 and R-15
Districts.
   (B)   Building setback. A minimum setback of 30 feet shall be required
between all structures and adjoining property lines of adjacent residentially
zoned or used property.
   (C)   Buffering. A Type II buffer shall be established along all side and
rear property lines adjacent to residentially zoned or used property.
   (D)   Building design standards. Structures shall be designed so that they
respect the residential character of the area in which they are located. To
achieve this, the following standards shall apply.
      (1)   Exterior building materials. No exterior wall, which is visible
from a public right-of-way or an adjoining residentially zoned or used property
may be finished with plywood, corrugated or sheet metal, stucco, cinder block
or other materials which are not normally used to finish the exterior walls of
single- family dwellings. The use of brick or split-faced block is highly
encouraged.
      (2)   Roofs.
         (a)   A minimum roof pitch of 5/12 is required.
         (b)   Roofing materials must be of a similar style and color as those
of surrounding residences.
   (E)   Access. Libraries must have direct access to a thoroughfare or
collector street.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.185  LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   Agricultural and temporary uses.
      (1)   Where required. These standards apply within the AG and I District.
      (2)   Minimum area. The minimum lot area shall be five acres.
      (3)   Setback. All structures housing livestock shall be located a
minimum of 200 feet from adjoining property lines.
      (4)   Fencing. A security fence, capable of restraining the movement of
livestock from the property, shall be erected around the perimeter of all areas
containing livestock.
      (5)   Temporary use. Livestock contained within the Industrial District
shall only be temporary for special event purposes, and must obtain a zoning
certificate of compliance from the Ordinance Administrator. Events within the
Industrial District that temporarily hold livestock shall house livestock for a
maximum of two calendar weeks.
   (B)   Accessory use.
      (1)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the AG
Districts, where the principal use of the lot is residential.
      (2)   Standards for the keeping of cloven hoofed animals.
         (a)   Minimum lot size:
            1.   Horses, cows and similarly sized animals: no more than one
animal, over six months of age is permitted per 20,000 square feet of fenced
lot area; and
            2.   Sheep, goats and similarly sized animals: no more than one
animal, over six months of age is permitted per 10,000 square feet of fenced
lot area.
         (b)   All structures for housing livestock shall not be located any
closer than 150 feet from residential structures on adjoining property.
         (c)   Fences or enclosures are required to keep farm animals from
leaving a property.
         (d)   Manure and waste storage areas shall be at least 75 feet from a
dwelling, wellhead, pond, creek or other water feature and 25 feet from a
property line.
      (3)   Standards for the keeping of fowl.
         (a)   Minimum lot size: no more than one animal, over six months of
age is permitted per 500 square feet of fenced lot area; in any case, no more
than 30 fowl may be kept on one property.
         (b)   Fowl shall be kept within a fence enclosure and shall subject to
setbacks for principal buildings.
         (c)   The enclosed area where fowl are kept shall be kept clean and
feed must be kept in rodent-proof, sealed containers.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.186  MANUFACTURED HOME PARK.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the AG District.
   (B)   Minimum park size. The total size of a manufactured home park shall be
at least five acres and each park shall have a minimum of ten designated
dwelling unit spaces.
   (C)   Access. A park shall have all vehicular access from a public
thoroughfare or collector street.
   (D)   External setbacks. All development within a manufactured home park
shall be set back at least 25 feet from a public street right-of-way, 25 feet
from the rear lot line of the park and 15 feet from a side lot line of the
park.
   (E)   Internal separation. Manufactured homes within a manufactured home
park shall be limited to one dwelling unit per space, and shall maintain a
minimum separation of at least 15 feet from any other dwelling or structure.
   (F)   Minimum lot dimensions. Each designated dwelling unit space shall be
at least 50 feet wide and have a minimum depth of 100 feet.
   (G)   Internal setbacks. Manufactured homes may not be located any closer
than ten feet to a designated lot line or street edge of pavement.
   (H)   Street standards. All streets within a manufactured home park shall be
paved and privately maintained in accordance with town engineering standards.
The paving surface associated with each street shall be at least 20 feet in
width and graded to a width of at least 30 feet for two-way traffic.
   (I)   Storm water and grading. The park shall be designed and graded in
accordance with town engineering standards to allow for the adequate run-off of
storm water. Storm drains shall be provided to adequately intersect surface
water flow.
   (J)   Utilities. Each dwelling unit space within a park shall be served with
adequate electricity, potable water and sanitary sewer facilities in accordance
with town engineering standards.
   (K)   Parking. All parking areas shall be paved with asphalt, concrete or
other all weather material.
   (L)   Buffering. A Type II buffer shall be established around the external
boundary of the manufactured home park where it abuts residentially zoned or
used property.
   (M)   Class A manufactured home required. Only Class A manufactured homes,
as defined by this chapter, shall be allowed in the manufactured home park.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.187  MANUFACTURED HOME SALES, NEW.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the I District.
   (B)   Density. A minimum of 5,000 square feet shall be required for each
dwelling unit displayed for sale.
   (C)   Location. Dwelling units displayed for sale may not be placed in any
required setback or street right-of-way.
   (D)   Internal setbacks. Dwelling units displayed for sale must maintain a
20-foot setback on all sides from other dwelling units displayed for sale.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.188  PORTABLE SELF STORAGE CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the AG, R-3, R-10
and R-15 Districts.
   (B)   Number. No more than two portable self storage containers shall be
allowed on any property at one time.
   (C)   Location. Containers may not be placed in a street right-of-way, and
may not encroach into any required setback.
   (D)   Size. Individual containers may not exceed 1,360 cubic feet of volume
and may not have any dimension greater than 20 feet.
   (E)   Time limit. Containers may be located on a property for a time period
not to exceed 30 days unless they are used in conjunction with bona fide
construction activity evidenced by a valid building permit. If a valid building
permit is obtained for the repair, renovation or reconstruction of the
principal structure on the lot, containers may be present for a period of up to
ten months from the date that the building permit was issued. In no case shall
a container remain on the property for more than 30 days following the final
inspection for the construction that was authorized by the permit.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.189  POST OFFICES.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the R-10 and R-15
Districts.
   (B)   Building setback. A minimum setback of 30 feet shall be required
between all structures and adjoining property lines of adjacent residentially
zoned or used property.
   (C)   Buffering. A Type II buffer shall be established along all side and
rear property lines adjacent to residentially zoned or used property.
   (D)   Building design standards. Structures shall be designed so that they
respect the residential character of the area in which they are located. To
achieve this, the following standards shall apply.
      (1)   Exterior building materials. No exterior wall, which is visible
from a public right-of-way or an adjoining residentially zoned or used
property, may be finished with plywood, corrugated or sheet metal, stucco,
cinder block or other materials which are not normally used to finish the
exterior walls of single- family dwellings. The use of brick or split-faced
block is highly encouraged.
      (2)   Roofs.
         (a)   A minimum roof pitch of 5/12 is required.
         (b)   Roofing materials must be of a similar style and color as those
of surrounding residences.
   (E)   Access. Post offices must have direct access to a thoroughfare or
collector street.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.190  RESTAURANTS (NO DRIVE-THROUGH SERVICE).
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the GC District.
   (B)   Maximum size. Restaurants are limited to a maximum of 2,000 square
feet of gross floor area devoted to customer serving areas.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.191  SCHOOLS.
   (A)   School, dance academy, art.
      (1)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the R-10 and R-
15 Districts.
      (2)   Building setback. A minimum setback of 30 feet shall be required
between all structures and adjoining property lines of adjacent residentially
zoned or used property.
      (3)   Buffering. A Type II buffer shall be established along all side and
rear property lines adjacent to residentially zoned or used property.
      (4)   Building design standards. Structures shall be designed so that
they respect the residential character of the area in which they are located.
To achieve this, the following standards shall apply.
         (a)   Exterior building materials. No exterior wall, which is visible
from a public right-of- way or an adjoining residentially zoned or used
property, may be finished with plywood, corrugated or sheet metal, stucco,
cinder block or other materials which are not normally used to finish the
exterior walls of single-family dwellings. The use of brick or split-faced
block is highly encouraged.
         (b)   Roofs.
            1.   A minimum roof pitch of 5/12 is required.
            2.   Roofing materials must be of a similar style and color as
those of surrounding residences.
   (B)   School, elementary.
      (1)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the R-10 and R-
15 Districts.
      (2)   Building setback. A minimum setback of 50 feet shall be required
between all structures and adjoining property lines of adjacent residentially
zoned or used property.
      (3)   Buffering. A Type III buffer shall be established along all side
and rear property lines adjacent to residentially zoned or used property.
      (4)   Access. A minimum of two access points shall be provided along a
thoroughfare or collector street.
   (C)   School, middle.
      (1)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the R-15
Districts.
      (2)   Building setback. A minimum setback of 50 feet shall be required
between all structures and adjoining property lines of adjacent residentially
zoned or used property.
      (3)   Buffering. A Type III buffer shall be established along all side
and rear property lines adjacent to residentially zoned or used property.
      (4)   Access. A minimum of two access points shall be provided along a
thoroughfare or collector street.
   (D)   School, senior high.
      (1)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the R-15
Districts.
      (2)   Building setback. A minimum setback of 50 feet shall be required
between all structures and adjoining property lines of adjacent residentially
zoned or used property.
      (3)   Buffering. A Type III buffer shall be established along all side
and rear property lines adjacent to residentially zoned or used property.
      (4)   Access. A minimum of two access points shall be provided along a
thoroughfare or collector street.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.192  SEASONAL SALES (CHRISTMAS TREES, PUMPKINS AND THE LIKE).
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the AG and OI
Districts.
   (B)   Hours of operation. Hours of operation shall be limited to the hours
between 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
   (C)   Time limit. All seasonal sales shall be limited to a maximum of 35
consecutive days of operation per sales period.
   (D)   Separation. A seasonal sales establishment shall not be located within
100 feet of a structure used for residential purposes.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.193  SELF STORAGE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the GC District.
   (B)   Maximum size. The maximum size of the development shall be three
acres.
   (C)   Hours of operation. Access to the facility shall be restricted to the
hours between 7:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m.
   (D)   Outdoor storage. The only items allowed to be stored outdoors on the
site are vehicles, boats and equipment that are in operable condition.
   (E)   Prohibited activities. No activity or use, other than those associated
with the operation of the facility and the storage of goods is allowed. No
maintenance or repair of equipment, boats or vehicles is allowed on the
premises.
   (F)   Screening. A minimum six-foot high opaque fence shall be erected
around all storage areas.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.194  SHOOTING RANGES.
   (A)   Shooting range, indoor.
      (1)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the I and GC
Districts.
      (2)   Noise reduction. Indoor shooting ranges shall be designed to absorb
noise to the maximum extent feasible.
      (3)   Hours of operation. Hours of operation shall be limited to the
hours between 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on Monday through Saturday.
   (B)   Shooting range, outdoor.
      (1)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the AG and I
Districts.
      (2)   Hours of operation. Hours of operation shall be limited to the
hours between 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. on Monday through Saturday.
      (3)   Setback. No portion of the shooting range shall be located within
300 feet of a property line.
      (4)   Security fencing. A minimum six-foot high fence shall be erected
around the entire perimeter of the shooting range.
      (5)   Berms. Berms of a sufficient height and thickness shall be
constructed downrange to prevent rounds from leaving the range. Elevation
control must be provided on the firing line to prevent rounds from being fired
over the berm.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.195  SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the AG, R-3, R-10,
R-15, OI and GC Districts.
   (B)   Fencing. A minimum four-foot high fence shall be erected around all
swimming pools.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.196  TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the GC District.
   (B)   Restrictions on public viewing. All tattooing or piercing shall take
place in an area of the establishment that cannot be viewed by other customers
or by the general public from any public or private street right-of-way or any
area commonly accessed by the public (i.e., parking lots, mall corridors,
promenades, sidewalks), whether on the same or a nearby property.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.197  TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION TRAILERS.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within all districts.
   (B)   Location. Temporary construction trailers may not be placed within a
street right-of-way.
   (C)   Setback. Temporary construction trailers must be placed at least 20
feet from adjoining property lines.
   (D)   Time limit. Temporary construction trailers may only be placed on a
property for which a valid building permit has been issued. Trailers may remain
only during the period of actual construction. They must be removed from the
premises prior to a certificate of occupancy being issued for the structure.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.198  TRUCK STOPS.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the GC District.
   (B)   Time limits. No truck or trailer may remain on the premises for more
than 12 hours.
   (C)   Access. Two access points to a thoroughfare are required.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.199  VENDING STATIONS, UNMANNED.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the GC District.
   (B)   Exterior materials. If the exterior finish of the vending station is
metal, only smooth, non- corrugated metal may be used.
   (C)   Location. Vending stations may not be located in any required setback,
nor within a street right-of-way.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.200  WHOLESALE AGRICULTURAL SALES.
   (A)   Wholesale agricultural chemical, pesticide and fertilizer sales.
      (1)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the AG District.
      (2)   Separation. No storage areas for chemicals, pesticides or
fertilizer may be located within 300 feet of a structure used for residential
purposes.
   (B)   Wholesale agricultural product sales.
      (1)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the AG District.
      (2)   Separation. Establishments may not be located any closer than 150
feet from a structure used for residential purposes.
   (C)   Wholesale agricultural supply sales.
      (1)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the AG District.
      (2)   Separation. Establishments may not be located any closer than 150
feet from a structure used for residential purposes.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.201  WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   Where required. These standards shall apply within the AG, R-10, R-15,
OI, GC and I Districts.
   (B)   General provisions. New freestanding wireless communication facilities
shall comply with the standards in this subsection. These regulations shall not
apply to non-commercial amateur/ham radio towers and emergency communication
towers owned by the town or other public agency that are used wholly or in part
for public safety purposes.
   (C)   Collocation required. It is the intent of the town to encourage
providers to collocate facilities in an effort to limit the number of
telecommunication towers in the town’s jurisdiction. New freestanding wireless
communication facilities shall be subject to the following requirements.
      (1)   No new freestanding wireless communication facility may be located
within 1,000 linear feet (as measured using the shortest straight line
distance) of an existing water tower, power transmission tower or similar
feature unless the applicant can demonstrate that collocation was pursued, but
rejected by the owner of the existing water tower, power transmission tower or
similar feature.
      (2)   No freestanding wireless communication facility may be located
within 1,500 linear feet of an existing freestanding wireless communication
facility unless the applicant can demonstrate that collocation is not a viable
option.
      (3)   The town may require, as a condition of approval, telecommunication
service providers to notify other telecommunication service providers of the
fact that space on a new freestanding wireless communication facility is
available on a lease basis, and to negotiate in good faith with other providers
to provide space on existing freestanding wireless communication facility at a
reasonable lease cost.
   (D)   Design.
      (1)   (a)   All telecommunication towers shall be of a monopole design
and construction.
         (b)   Lattice and guyed tower design shall be prohibited.
      (2)   The town may require as a condition of the zoning permit that the
freestanding wireless communication facility be camouflaged to blend with its
surroundings through creative placement, painting or other approaches.
      (3)   Freestanding wireless communication facilities must be setback from
property lines a distance of at least 125% of the total height of the facility.
   (E)   Maximum height.
      (1)   Within the R-10, R-15 and OI Districts, the maximum height shall be
limited to 100 feet.
      (2)   Within the AG, GC and I Districts, the maximum height shall be
limited to 200 feet.
   (F)   Small/micro antennas and equipment. Small/microantennas and equipment
may be installed in any zone as long as a zoning permit is obtained and all
equipment complies with this chapter and NCSL 2017-159 and any future additions
and/or amendments made to this law and its provisions.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
FENCES AND WALLS
§ 152.215  APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all new construction,
redevelopment or replacement of fences or walls not required for support of a
primary or accessory structure, or any other linear barrier intended to
delineate different portions of a lot. In the event of any inconsistency
between the provisions of this section and any screening standard in §
152.278 of this chapter, the latter shall govern.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.216  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Location. Fences are permitted on the property line between two or
more parcels of land held in private ownership.
   (B)   Temporary fences. Temporary fences for construction-sites or a similar
purpose shall comply with the requirements of the building code adopted by the
town.
   (C)   Fences in easements. Fences shall be prohibited within utility
easements and the town shall not be responsible for damage to, or the repair or
replacement of fences that must be removed to access such easements. In no
instance shall this provision be construed to prevent fencing around storm
water retention or detention facilities.
   (D)   Blocking natural drainage flow. No fence shall be installed so as to
block or divert a natural drainage flow on to or off of any other land.
   (E)   Fences on retaining walls or berms. If a fence is constructed on top
of a wall or berm, the combined height of the fence and wall or berm shall not
exceed the maximum height that would apply to a fence or wall alone.
   (F)   Fences and walls within buffers and streetscape landscaping areas.
Fences and walls shall be installed so as not to disturb or damage existing
vegetation or installed plant material. The perimeter fencing or wall for a
single subdivision or development shall be of a uniform, approved style that
meets the standards of this subchapter in order to provide visual interest in
an orderly manner.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.217  HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   All fences and walls shall conform to the following standards. In all cases,
heights are measured from natural grade.
   (A)   Residential. In the residential districts, fences and walls, except
for retaining walls, shall not exceed a height of four feet in front yards.
Walls shall be limited to a maximum height of three feet in front yards. Walls
and fences located behind the front building line shall not exceed six feet
four inches in height. If a fence is constructed on top of a retaining or other
wall, the combined height of the fence and wall shall not exceed the maximum
height that would apply to a fence or wall alone.
   (B)   Non-residential.
      (1)   In the non-residential and mixed-use districts, fences and walls
shall not be permitted in front setback areas, and shall not exceed a height of
six feet four inches in front yards and within 20 linear feet of public rights-
of-way inside and rear yards. Fences and walls shall not exceed eight feet four
inches in height in all other areas.
      (2)   If a fence is constructed on top of a retaining or other wall, the
combined height of the fence and wall shall not exceed the maximum height that
would apply to a fence or wall alone.
   (C)   Exemption for required screening. Fencing provided to meet the
standards of §
152.278 of this chapter shall be exempted from the height standards of this
subsection, but in no case shall the fencing exceed more than two feet above
the maximum height limits of §
152.278 of this chapter.
   (D)   Exemption for recreational fencing. Customary fencing provided as a
part of a permitted tennis court, athletic field or other recreational facility
shall be exempt from the height restrictions of this section.
   (E)   Exemption for safety. Major utilities, government facilities and other
public safety uses shall be exempted from these standards as needed for public
safety.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.218  PERIMETER FENCES AND WALLS ABUTTING PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   Perimeter fences or walls abutting a public right-of-way shall:
   (A)   Be of a uniform style;
   (B)   Be located outside the right-of-way associated with a public street;
and
   (C)   Be located outside any required streetscape landscaping. (See §
152.272 of this chapter.)
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.219  VISIBILITY CLEARANCE.
   Fences and walls may not be placed in any location that would obstruct the
vision of motorists or pedestrians, or otherwise create a safety hazard.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.220  PROHIBITED FENCES.
   (A)   Chain link and metal-slat fencing. Fences and walls constructed of
chain link or metal slats shall be prohibited within the front yard in all
residential districts.
   (B)   Barbed wire and above ground electrified fences prohibited. Except as
needed for agricultural uses, livestock, major utilities, government facilities
and other public safety uses, barbed wire fences and above ground electrified
fences are prohibited in all zoning districts. Underground or above ground
electric fences designed for control of domestic animals are permitted.
   (C)   Debris, rolled plastic, sheet metal, plywood or other waste materials.
Fences or walls made of debris, junk, rolled plastic, sheet metal, plywood or
waste materials are prohibited in all zoning districts, unless such materials
have been recycled and reprocessed into building materials marketed to the
general public and resemble new building materials.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.221  APPEARANCE OF FENCES AND WALLS.
   (A)   Customary materials. Fences and walls shall be constructed of
customary materials, including solid wood, brick, masonry, stone, wrought iron,
decorative metal materials or products designed to resemble these materials.
Where specific materials are specified for particular types of screening or
buffering fences or walls, all other fence materials are prohibited.
   (B)   Finished side to outside. Wherever a fence or wall is installed, if
one side of the fence or wall appears more “finished” than the other (i.e., one
side has visible support framing and the other does not), then the more
“finished” side of the fence shall face the perimeter or outside of the lot,
rather than facing the interior of the lot.
   (C)   Uniformity of materials on a single lot side. All fencing or wall
segments located along a single lot side shall be composed of a uniform
material and shall be of a uniform color.
   (D)   Maintenance required. All fences and walls shall be maintained in good
repair and in a safe and attractive condition, including, but not limited to,
replacement of missing, decayed or broken structural and decorative elements.
All fences and walls shall receive regular structural maintenance to prevent
and address sagging and weathering of surfaces visible from the public right-
of-way. Any deteriorated, damaged or decayed fence materials shall be promptly
repaired and any fence or wall post or section that leans more than 20 degrees
from vertical shall be promptly repaired to correct that condition.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
OUTDOOR LIGHTING
§ 152.235  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to control light spillage and glare
so as not to adversely affect motorists, pedestrians and land uses of adjacent
properties.
   (B)   More specifically, this subchapter is intended to:
      (1)   Control lighting to assure that excessive light spillage and glare
are not directed at adjacent properties, neighboring areas and motorists;
      (2)   Ensure that all site lighting shall be designed and installed to
maintain adequate lighting levels on-site; and
      (3)   Provide security for persons and land.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.236  APPLICABILITY.
   Unless exempted in accordance with §
152.237 of this chapter, the provisions of this section shall apply to attached
residential, institutional, commercial and industrial uses.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.237  EXEMPTIONS.
   The standards of this subchapter shall not apply to government-owned,
operated or maintained street lights located within a street right-of-way or
other easement granted to the town.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.238  DESIGN STANDARDS FOR EXTERIOR LIGHTING.
   All exterior lighting shall conform to the following standards.
   (A)   Maximum lighting height.
      (1)   Except for outdoor sports fields or performance areas, outdoor
lighting heights shall be no greater than:
         (a)   Eighteen feet above grade for pedestrian lighting; and
         (b)   Twenty-five feet above grade for vehicular lighting.
      (2)   Wherever possible, illumination of outdoor seating areas, building
entrances and walkways shall be accomplished by use of ground mounted fixtures
not more than four feet in height.
   (B)   Illumination direction.
      (1)   In all districts, lighting of non- residential development shall be
directed downward. In addition, upwardly-directed lighting shall not be used to
illuminate structures, except for low-wattage architectural lighting.
      (2)   Outdoor lighting shall not shine directly into the yard or windows
of a adjacent residential uses.
   (C)   Location. All lighting shall be located at least ten feet from side
lot lines, rear lot lines and required perimeter buffers.
   (D)   Shielding.
      (1)   Light fixtures in excess of 60 watts or 100 lumens shall use full
cut-off lenses or hoods to prevent glare or spillover from the project site
onto adjacent lands and streets.
      (2)   No interior light source shall be positioned, aimed or configured
so as to result in the light source being visible from land occupied by
existing residential development.
      (3)   No light source in a canopy structure shall extend downward further
than the lowest edge of the canopy ceiling.
      (4)   Awnings or canopies used for building accents over doors, windows
and the like shall be allowed to be internally illuminated (i.e., from
underneath or behind the awning); provided, the state’s Building and Electrical
Codes are met.
   (E)   Maximum light levels. All outdoor lighting shall be designed and
located such that the maximum illumination measured in foot candles at the
property line shall not exceed one foot candle. The average intensity
illumination for outdoor lighting shall not exceed an average of six foot
candles in intensity as measured at grade. Vehicular use area lighting shall
not exceed a maintained average of two and one-half foot candles.
   (F)   Hue. All outdoor and parking lot lighting fixtures, including metal
halide, mercury vapor, fluorescent, induction, white high-pressure sodium and
color-improved high-pressure sodium lamps used in non-cutoff fixtures shall be
coated with an internal white frosting inside the outer lamp envelope.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.239  WALL-MOUNTED LIGHTS.
   (A)   Wall-mounted lights shall be fully shielded luminaries (such as
shoebox or can style fixtures) to prevent the light source from being visible
from any adjacent residential property or public street right-of- way. Nothing
in this section shall prevent the use of decorative lighting fixtures provided
that the source of illumination is not visible from adjacent lands used or
zoned for residential purposes, and provided that the maximum illumination
values comply with the standards in §
152.238(E) of this chapter.
   (B)   Wall packs on buildings may be used at entrances to a building to
light unsafe areas. They are not intended to draw attention to the building or
provide general building or site lighting. Wall packs on the exterior of the
building shall be fully shielded (true cut-off type bulb or light source not
visible from off-site) to direct the light downward and be of low wattage
(preferably 100 watts or lower). Other accent lighting projected onto buildings
may be allowed provided that it is approved through the development plan
process.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.240  FLOODLIGHTS AND SPOTLIGHTS.
   Floodlights and spotlights shall be selected, located, aimed and shielded so
that direct illumination is focused exclusively on a portion of the building
facade or other intended site feature and away from adjoining lands or the
right-of-way. On-site lighting may be used to accent architectural elements but
shall not be used to illuminate entire portions of building(s). Such lighting
shall be installed in a fixture that is shielded so that no portion of the
light bulb extends below the bottom edge or above the top edge of the shield,
and the main beam from the light source is not visible from adjacent lands or
the adjacent right-of- way. Floodlights or other type of lighting attached to
light poles that illuminate the site or building(s) are prohibited.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.241  ILLUMINATION OF OUTDOOR SPORTS FIELDS AND PERFORMANCE AREAS.
   All lighting fixtures serving outdoor sports fields and performance areas
shall be equipped with a glare control package (e.g., louvers, shields or
similar devices), and the fixtures shall be aimed so that their beams are
directed and fall within the primary playing or performance area.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.242  SIGN LIGHTING.
   Lighting fixtures illuminating signs shall comply with the standards of this
subchapter, and such fixtures shall be aimed and shielded so that direct
illumination is focused exclusively on the sign face.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
NOISE
§ 152.255  LOUDSPEAKERS PROHIBITED.
   The installation or use of loudspeakers, horns, sirens or similar
noisemaking devices for commercial purposes shall be prohibited. Nothing in
this section shall prohibit the use of loudspeakers by public safety agencies
or at sporting or other public events.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
LANDSCAPING, BUFFERS AND SCREENING
§ 152.270  INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to require landscaping to
minimize the adverse effects of certain land uses and outdoor activities upon
their surroundings and to improve the appearance of parking areas, street
frontages and pedestrian corridors within the community.
   (B)   It is further intended to preserve and enhance the aesthetic
qualities, character, privacy and land values within the town.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.271  GENERAL LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Applicability. These regulations shall apply to all land development
activities within the town with the exception of the following activities:
      (1)   The construction, reconstruction, expansion or modification of a
detached single-family dwelling on an individual lot;
      (2)   The construction, reconstruction, expansion or modification of no
more than two attached dwelling units; provided that, each unit is constructed
with an individual driveway and/or garage; and
      (3)   Land development activities within the Central Business District
(CB) where structures are constructed within five feet of a lot line or would
otherwise prevent the installation of required landscaping material due to
adjacent structures or rights-of way.
   (B)   General requirements.
      (1)   Landscaping required by this subchapter shall comply with the
minimum state or local sight distance requirements for street intersections and
driveways, and shall not obstruct or impede public pedestrian routes including
sidewalks and greenway trails. Safety and security concerns should receive
prominent consideration during the selection and placement of landscape
materials.
      (2)   Whenever any planting areas required by this subchapter are
adjacent to motor vehicle surface areas or motor vehicle display areas, the
planting areas shall be protected from motor vehicle intrusion or damage by
active restraint devices, such as bollards, wheel stops or curbing.
      (3)   The soil surface of all planting areas required by this subchapter
shall be stabilized to prevent erosion. In addition to required interior trees
and shrubs, the soil surfaces of planting areas shall contain live groundcover,
mulch, flowering plants, permeable pedestrian paver blocks or a combination
thereof.
      (4)   All required plantings installed shall be nursery grown stock that
is free from disease or growth problems, shall be indigenous to the county, and
shall comply with the latest edition of the American Standards for Nursery
Stock, published by the American Nurserymen’s Association and be consistent
with the standards set forth by the Duplin County, North Carolina Cooperative
Extension Service.
      (5)   The landowner is responsible for maintaining, mulching, watering
and pruning all required plant materials. Any dead or missing plants must be
replaced with new planting which meets the minimum installation dimension
standards of this section. Plant replacement shall take place within one month
of written notification by the Ordinance Administrator. In the event that plant
material is severely damaged due to an unusual weather occurrence or other act
of nature, or if replacement plantings are unavailable within one month of
written notification, the landowner will have six months from the date of
written notification to replace plantings. This time limit may be extended by
the Ordinance Administrator if the area is under prolonged drought conditions,
or if the particular type of plant material has a preferred planting season
that would require extending the length of time.
      (6)   Where appropriate, the location of overhead utility lines shall be
considered during the placement of required trees. The maximum mature height of
required trees shall be determined as follows.
         (a)   Trees with a maximum mature height of less than 25 feet shall be
used where they will be planted within 25 feet, measured horizontally, from
overhead power lines.
         (b)   Trees with a maximum mature height of less than 35 feet shall be
used where they will be planted within 35 feet, measured horizontally, from
overhead power lines.
         (c)   Trees with a maximum mature height of greater than 35 feet may
be used where they will be planted more than 30 feet, measured horizontally,
from overhead power lines so long as they do not have a horizontal spread of
more than 25 feet from the trunk.
      (7)   Fractional planting requirement calculations shall be rounded to
the next higher whole number.
      (8)   Existing plant material within the required bufferyard may be
included in the computation of the required plantings with approval of the
Ordinance Administrator.
      (9)   A minimum five-foot radius containing no plant materials or
structural elements other than groundcover plants shall be maintained around
all fire protection equipment, including fire hydrants, post indicator valves
and Siamese connectors. Obvious sight lines to the fire protection equipment
shall be maintained at all times.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.272  STREET YARDS.
   (A)   A landscaped street yard shall be required for all activities subject
to the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   Street yards shall conform to the requirements outlined below.
      (1)   Street yards shall be installed along all streets and located
within 20 feet of the edge of the right-of-way.
      (2)   Street yard planting areas shall be a minimum of ten feet in width.
      (3)   Each streetyard shall contain a minimum of five trees and 20 shrubs
per 100 linear feet of road frontage, excluding the width of driveways as
measured at the right-of-way line.
         (a)   Each tree planted shall be a minimum of two DBH at the time of
installation. Each shrub planted shall be a minimum of 18 inches in height at
the time of installation and reach a minimum height of 36 inches within three
years of installation.
         (b)   Trees and shrubs must be native species. No more than 50% of the
shrubs planted to meet this requirement may be deciduous.
         (c)   Trees and shrubs must be distributed throughout the streetyard
planting area as evenly as possible.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.273  STREET TREES.
   Where new public or private streets are established through the major
subdivision process, street trees shall be required to be planted on both sides
of the street in accordance with the following standards.
   (A)   Trees planted to satisfy the requirements of this section shall have a
minimum mature height of 20 feet.
   (B)   Trees shall be planted at intervals of 40 feet as measured from the
center of the trunk.
   (C)   At the time of planting, each tree shall be a minimum of three DBH.
   (D)   Required trees shall be planted a minimum of five feet and a maximum
of 15 feet from the edge of pavement.
   (E)   Along streets that are well-forested or new streets that are to be
maintained in a forested condition by the developer, the requirements of this
subchapter may be reduced or eliminated upon approval of the Ordinance
Administrator to minimize grading and enhance preservation of existing, mature
trees. Tree planting requirements may be modified where extreme topography
would require excessive grading to meet the specific standards above.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.274  PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING.
   To provide shade and to break up the visual appearance of large paved areas,
landscaping shall be required.
   (A)   All parking lots subject to the requirements of this subchapter are
required to contain landscaping as specified below.
      (1)   Parking lots with 12 or more spaces shall be landscaped with one
tree for every 12 parking spaces.
      (2)   Parking lots shall contain landscape islands or peninsulas. Each
shall be a minimum of ten feet wide. Each island or peninsula shall be planted
with a minimum of one tree.
   (B)   (1)   Landscaping shall be arranged so as not to obscure traffic signs
or fire hydrants, or obstruct drivers’ sight distance within the parking area
and at driveway entrances.
      (2)   All landscape areas shall be protected by raised curbs, parking
blocks or other similar methods to prevent damage. Notwithstanding this
requirement, alternative low impact design solutions shall be encouraged, such
as areas for storm water infiltration, with incorporation of methods to prevent
damage.
      (3)   Trees shall be planted at least three feet from curbs or the edge
of pavement.
   (C)   Trees planted or preserved to satisfy streetyard, monumental tree
preservation or buffer requirements may be used to partially satisfy the
requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.275  FOUNDATION PLANTINGS.
   (A)   Minimum standards. For all portions of buildings that are adjacent to
motor vehicle use areas or internal driveways, foundation plantings shall be
required and located between the building’s facades and the parking or drive
isle curb. The minimum standards are required; however, it is encouraged that
sites exceed the minimum whenever possible. The following minimum standards
shall apply.
      (1)   The area of the building facade adjacent to the parking area or
internal drive isle shall be computed and multiplied by a minimum of 20%. The
resultant total square footage shall be planted as landscaped areas containing
a minimum of one evergreen shrub per 20 square feet of planting area and one
small flowering tree per 100 square feet of planting area.
      (2)   Each shrub planted shall be a minimum of 18 inches in height at the
time of installation and reach a minimum height of 36 inches within three years
of installation. Shrubs must be native species retains foliage to within six
inches above ground level.
      (3)   Each tree planted to satisfy this subchapter shall be a minimum of
two DBH at the time of installation.
   (B)   Exemptions. The following areas shall be exempted from the
requirements of this section:
      (1)   Along the portions of buildings which contain drive-thru services
(such examples would include, but not be limited to, pharmacies, banks, fast
food restaurants and dry cleaners);
      (2)   On the rear side of a building when less than 10% of the total
required parking is located in the rear of the building and the rear is not
adjacent to any public right-of-way or interior driveway used by customers; and
      (3)   Along portions of buildings within the Central Business District
(CB) which are constructed within two feet of a lot line.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.276  BUFFERS.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   A landscape buffer area is required when any use in a commercial or
office industrial or industrial district is adjacent to any agricultural and
residential districts. Additionally, any principal non-residential and non-
agricultural use permitted in the agricultural and residential zoning districts
is subject to buffering requirements when adjacent to properties within the
same districts.
      (2)   A buffer area is not required if the qualifying adjacent zoning
districts are separated by a public right-of-way.
      (3)   A buffer area shall be required even when the adjacent agricultural
and residential zoned property is undeveloped.
   (B)   Design and placement.
      (1)   The buffer area shall abut the applicable property line and
plantings shall fall within the required buffer area width.
      (2)   Buildings, structures and parking lots may not encroach into the
buffer area. Areas of ingress/egress may cross the required buffer areas
perpendicularly.
      (3)   Storm water management measures, such as areas for infiltration or
retention, may be located in the buffer area; provided, the planting
requirements in the table below can still be met.
      (4)   Buffers may be used for passive recreation, such as pedestrian,
bicycle or equestrian trails, as long as no plant material is eliminated, and
the total width of the buffer shall be maintained.
      (5)   Required buffer plantings shall not be installed on cut or fill
slopes with slope ratios greater than two to one (2:1). Where buffers include
any part of a cut slope greater than ten feet in height, grading for such cut
slope shall not encroach closer than ten feet to the property line.
      (6)   Plantings may be arranged formally or informally for a more natural
effect.
   (C)   Buffer requirements. Buffer area types applicable to the following
zoning districts are indicated in the table below.
 
District               Buffer Type Min. Width Min. Planting Required per 50
                                              Linear Ft.
                                              1 tree, 4 primary evergreen
AG, R-3, R-10 and R-15 I           10 ft.     plants, 5 supplemental evergreen
                                              shrubs
                                              1 tree, 5 primary evergreen
OI and GC              II          15 ft.     plants, 10 supplemental evergreen
                                              shrubs
                                              2 trees, 8 primary evergreen
Industrial             III         20 ft.     plants, 10 supplemental evergreen
                                              shrubs
 
      (1)   If any conflict exists between the buffer requirements as
identified in this section and any use standards or zoning district regulations
contained in other sections of this chapter, the buffer requirements in the
other section shall apply.
      (2)   (a)   Only trees which have mature heights exceeding 25 feet may be
used for required buffer plantings.
         (b)   All trees used for buffer screening must be a minimum of two DBH
at installation.
         (c)   All primary evergreen plants shall be a minimum of six feet in
height at time of installation unless combined with an approved earthen berm,
and shall be not less than ten feet in height at maturity.
         (d)   All supplemental evergreen shrubs shall be a minimum of 18
inches in height at installation and shall attain a minimum height of 36 inches
three years after installation.
   (D)   Buffer alternatives.
      (1)   Berms may be constructed in a buffer area to supplement
landscaping. Minimum landscaping requirements shall be reduced by 50% where a
berm at least three feet in height is constructed for at least 85% of the
length of the buffer area. The minimum buffer width shall be maintained.
      (2)   A privacy fence may be used to supplement landscaping. For the
linear footage, a privacy fence is used, the minimum landscaping requirement
shall be reduced by 75%. Minimum buffer width shall be maintained. To qualify
for the reduction, privacy fences must meet the following requirements:
         (a)   Height: six-foot minimum;
         (b)   Placement: at least five feet from the property line; and
         (c)   Opacity: gaps between pickets must be no greater than one-half
of an inch.
      (3)   Where the distance between the building, parking area or use is
more than 200 feet from a side or rear lot line, the minimum landscaping
requirement along that lot line may be reduced by 50%.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.277  RIPARIAN BUFFERS.
   These standards are designed to regulate impervious surface cover in
riparian areas in order to promote public health, safety and general welfare by
protection of water quality through the control of non-point source pollution
within riparian protection areas.
   (A)   Applicability. These standards shall apply to all development activity
within the jurisdiction of this chapter which is located adjacent to a
perennial or intermittent stream as depicted on the most recent version of the
U.S. Geological Survey 1:24,000 (7.5 minute) map or U.S. Department of
Agriculture Soil Survey map covering the area in question.
   (B)   Exemption. When a perennial or intermittent stream is shown on the
most recent version of the U.S. Geological Survey 1:24,000 (7.5 minute) map or
U.S. Department of Agriculture Soil Survey map covering the area in question,
but no watercourse exists, the property owner or developer may seek
administrative relief from the requirements this section by submitting site
specific evidence that no watercourse exists.
   (C)   Buffer requirements. Riparian buffers shall be established and
maintained according to the following specifications.
      (1)   Low-density development. When property adjacent to a regulated
watercourse is developed with less than 24% impervious surface area, the
following standards shall apply.
         (a)   Property adjacent to perennial streams. A 30-foot riparian
buffer, as measured landward from the top of the stream bank shall be
established. Within the first 15 feet of the top of the bank, no disturbance of
the existing vegetation is allowed. The remaining width of the buffer area must
remain free of impervious surfaces.
         (b)   Property adjacent to intermittent streams. A 20-foot riparian
buffer, as measured landward from the top of the stream bank, shall be
established. Within the first ten feet of the top of the bank, no disturbance
of the existing vegetation is allowed. The remaining width of the buffer area
must remain free of impervious surfaces.
      (2)   High density development. When property adjacent to a regulated
watercourse is developed with greater than 24% impervious surface area the
following standards shall apply.
         (a)   Property adjacent to perennial streams. A 50-foot riparian
buffer, as measured landward from the top of the stream bank, shall be
established. Within the first 30 feet of the top of the bank, no disturbance of
the existing vegetation is allowed. The remaining width of the buffer area must
remain free of impervious surfaces.
         (b)   Property adjacent to intermittent streams. A 30-foot riparian
buffer, as measured landward from the top of the stream bank shall be
established. Within the first 20 feet of the top of the bank, no disturbance of
the existing vegetation is allowed. The remaining width of the buffer area must
remain free of impervious surfaces.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.278  SCREENING.
   Screening shall be required in order to conceal specific areas of high
visual impact from both on-site and off-site views. Such areas shall be
screened at all times, unless otherwise specified, regardless of adjacent uses,
districts or other proximate landscaping material.
   (A)   Items to be screened. The following areas shall be screened:
      (1)   Outdoor trash storage (including recycling containers);
      (2)   Loading and service areas;
      (3)   Outdoor storage areas (including storage tanks); and
      (4)   Ground level mechanical equipment and utility meters.
   (B)   Screening methods.
      (1)   Vegetative material. Planting materials meeting the standards for a
Type III buffer.
      (2)   Berms. Earthen berms shall measure at least two feet in height.
Berms shall be covered with grass and shall be planted with other landscaping
materials consistent with the requirements for a Type III buffer.
      (3)   Fencing. An opaque wooden fence, or a plastic, or vinyl designed
fence that is configured to appear as an opaque wooden fence, measuring at
least six feet in height, but not exceeding eight feet in height, that is
consistent with the standards in §§
152.215 through
152.221 of this chapter. When wood is utilized, only treated wood or rot-
resistant wood, such as cypress or redwood, shall be used. Chain link, barbed
wire, stock wire, hog wire, chicken wire and similar type fences are not
permitted.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
MONUMENTAL TREE PRESERVATION
§ 152.290  PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to:
   (A)   Promote the aesthetic quality of new development by preserving
existing trees;
   (B)   Preserve trees that contribute to the historic character of the town;
   (C)   Prevent the wholesale clearing of land for development; and
   (D)   Preserve and protect property values.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.291  APPLICABILITY.
   These regulations shall apply to all land development activities within the
town with the exception of those activities specifically exempted by §
152.292 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.292  EXEMPTIONS.
   The following shall be exempt from the requirements of this subchapter:
   (A)   The construction, reconstruction, expansion or modification of a
detached single-family dwelling unit on an individual lot;
   (B)   The construction, reconstruction, expansion or modification of no more
than two attached dwelling units; provided that, each unit is constructed with
an individual driveway;
   (C)   The removal of any monumental tree that has become a hazardous tree or
threatens to become a danger to human life or property. A tree is hazardous
when it meets all of the following as determined by a certified arborist:
      (1)   It has a structural defect that predisposes the entire tree, or at
least one-fifth or more of the tree’s crown, to structural failure;
      (2)   The DBH of the tree predisposed to structural failure is at least
ten inches, or the diameter of the crown limb(s) predisposed to structural
failure is at least eight inches at the largest point;
      (3)   The structural defect has a failure potential of “medium” or
greater as described in the current edition of A Photographic Guide to the
Evaluation of Hazard Trees in Urban Areas, published by the International
Society of Arboriculture, and cannot be remedied by an accepted arboricultural
practice; and
      (4)   A target exists beneath or adjacent to the tree that could be
injured or damaged, including but not limited to, pedestrians, vehicles,
streets, sidewalks, buildings and other human-made structures.
   (D)   The necessary removal of monumental trees by a utility company within
dedicated utility easements; and
   (E)   The removal of monumental trees causing the blockage or improper
operation of storm water control facilities.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.293  PRESERVATION OF MONUMENTAL TREES AND MONUMENTAL TREE STANDS
REQUIRED.
   To the greatest extent practical, monumental trees and monumental tree
stands shall be protected and preserved during and after development. Measures
such as the relocation or reconfiguration of buildings, parking areas, streets
and other features may be required by the Planning Board if it deems it
necessary to fulfill the intent of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.294  CRITERIA FOR DETERMINING MONUMENTAL TREES AND MONUMENTAL TREE
STANDS.
   (A)   Definition of a “monumental tree”. A MONUMENTAL TREE is defined as
follows:
      (1)   Any tree in fair or better condition which equals or exceeds the
following DBH (diameter breast height) sizes:
         (a)   Sixteen-inch DBH: large hard- woods such as live oaks;
         (b)   Twenty-inch DBH: large softwoods such as pines; and
         (c)   Six-inch DBH: small ornamental trees such as dogwoods.
      (2)   A tree in fair or better condition is one that has a life
expectancy of greater than 15 years, a structurally sound trunk which is solid
and free of decay, no more than one major and several minor dead limbs
(hardwoods only), no major insect infestations and is free of disease.
      (3)   A lesser-sized tree can be considered a monumental tree if it is a
rare or unusual species, of exceptional or unique quality, or of historical
significance.
   (B)   Monumental tree stands.MONUMENTAL TREE STANDS are defined as a
contiguous grouping of trees which has been determined to be of high value to
the community by the Planning Board. Such determination is based upon the
following criteria:
      (1)   A relatively mature, even-aged stand;
      (2)   A stand with purity of species composition or of a rare or unusual
nature;
      (3)   A stand of historical significance; and
      (4)   A stand with exceptional aesthetic quality.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.295  MONUMENTAL TREE SURVEY.
   All applications for site plan approval and all preliminary subdivision
plats shall be accompanied by a survey of all monumental trees and monumental
tree stands on the subject property. At a minimum, the survey shall note the
location, DBH and common name of individual trees that meet the criteria for
monumental status. Trees comprising a monumental stand shall not need to be
individually identified, but the area containing the stand shall be delineated
on the survey and the composition of the stand shall be noted. Surveys for
large parcels that are not going to be fully developed may exclude those areas
located more than 50 feet from the boundary of the construction area.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.296  TREE PRESERVATION AND PROTECTION PLAN.
   In addition to the required monumental tree survey, a complete tree
preservation and protection plan shall be submitted with all applications for
site plan approval and preliminary subdivision plat approval. The preservation
and protection plan shall indicate which monumental trees and monumental tree
stands on the subject property will be preserved, relocated or removed. The
plan shall also indicate the type and location of all active and passive tree
protection measures that will be installed and remain in place throughout the
development process. The location of all proposed impervious surfaces shall
also be delineated on the plan.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.297  REVIEW BY PLANNING BOARD.
   The tree survey and preservation and protection plan shall be reviewed by
the Planning Board as part of its site plan approval process and preliminary
subdivision plat recommendation process. The Planning Board may require the
alteration of a proposed site plan or subdivision plat to meet the intent of
this subchapter. Approval of a site plan or a positive recommendation on a
preliminary subdivision plat may be withheld for failure to comply with the
terms of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.298  PRESERVATION REQUIRED.
   All monumental trees and monumental tree stands that are identified for
preservation on the approved preservation and protection plan shall be
preserved and protected from harm through the development process. If, through
reckless or careless action by the developer or through disregard for the
requirements of this subchapter, the developer removes or destroys a tree or
trees indicated for protection, he or she shall, at his or her expense, replace
the tree(s). Replacement shall be achieved by planting two trees of the same
variety for each tree removed or destroyed. Replacement trees shall be a
minimum of eight feet tall and have a diameter of at least two inches measured
six inches above the ground at the time of planting and shall be planted in the
general vicinity of the removed or destroyed tree(s).
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.299  TREE PROTECTION DURING CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   No person, in the construction of any structure(s) or improvement(s)
or any activity, shall encroach or place solvents, material, construction
machinery or temporary soil deposits within six feet of the area outside of the
drip line, as defined in this chapter, of any monumental tree or any tree
within a tree protection zone.
   (B)   (1)   Before development, land clearing, filling or any land
alteration, the developer shall be required to erect suitable protective
barriers as required by the Ordinance Administrator, including tree fences,
tree protection signs and erosion barriers until completion of site
landscaping.
      (2)   Authorization to remove the protective devices shall be in writing
by the Ordinance Administrator.
      (3)   Inspection of tree protection barriers is required prior to any
land disturbance or development.
      (4)   The Ordinance Administrator shall be contacted to schedule an
inspection time.
   (C)   (1)   Materials for active tree protection shall consist of chain
link, orange laminated plastic, wooden post and rail fencing or other
equivalent restraining material.
      (2)   In addition to fencing, where active tree protection is required,
each tree to be saved shall be marked at the base of the trunk with blue
colored water-based paint.
   (D)   Materials for passive tree protection shall consist of heavy mil
plastic flagging, a minimum of four inches wide with dark letters reading “Tree
Protection Area - Do Not Enter” or equivalent signage of a continuous, durable
restraint.
   (E)   All tree protection devices must remain in functioning condition until
the certificate of occupancy is issued and must be removed promptly thereafter.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
OFF-STREET PARKING, LOADING
AND STACKING
§ 152.310  PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to relieve traffic congestion in the
streets, to minimize any detrimental effects of off-street parking areas on
adjacent lands and to ensure the proper and uniform development of automobile
parking areas throughout the town.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.311  APPLICABILITY.
   These regulations shall apply to all land development activities within the
town with the exception of those activities specifically exempted by §
152.312 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.312  EXEMPTIONS.
   These regulations shall not apply to land development activities within the
Central Business (CB) District.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.313  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR OFF-STREET PARKING, LOADING AND STACKING
AREAS.
   (A)   Use of parking area, stacking area or loading space. All vehicular
parking areas, stacking areas and loading spaces required by this subchapter
shall be used only for those purposes. Any other use, including, but not
limited to, vehicular storage, vehicle sales, vehicular repair work, vehicle
service or display of any kind, shall constitute a separate use of the space.
   (B)   Identified as to purpose and location when not clearly evident. Off-
street parking areas of three or more spaces and off-street loading areas shall
include painted lines, wheel stops or other methods of identifying individual
parking spaces and loading areas and distinguishing such spaces from aisles.
   (C)   Surfacing. All off-street parking loading and stacking areas shall be
surfaced with asphalt, concrete, brick, stone, pavers or an equivalent
material, except as provided for in division (D) below. These materials shall
be maintained in a smooth, well-graded condition.
   (D)   Limitations on impervious surface.
      (1)   Where an off street parking area containing 50 or more vehicle
parking spaces is constructed or enlarged, no more than 80% of the parking area
may be surfaced with impervious material.
      (2)   At a minimum, 20% of the designated off-street parking area shall
be paved with pervious paving materials. Materials used for these areas may
include permeable concrete, permeable asphalt, open jointed blocks, permeable
pavers or other materials designed to allow the maximum infiltration of water.
      (3)   Regular maintenance of these pervious areas is required to ensure
that they continue to function properly after their installation.
   (E)   Arrangement.
      (1)   All off-street parking and loading areas shall be arranged for
convenient access and safety of pedestrians and vehicles.
      (2)   Except for detached residential uses, off-street parking areas with
three or more spaces shall be arranged so that no parking or maneuvering
incidental to parking shall be on a public street or sidewalk, and so that an
automobile may be parked and un-parked without moving another automobile.
      (3)   All off-street parking and loading areas, except on lots used for
detached residential uses and townhouses, shall be arranged so that no vehicle
shall be required to back from such facilities directly onto public streets.
   (F)   Curbs and vehicle stops. All off-street parking and loading areas
shall provide curbs, wheel stops or similar devices so as to prevent vehicles
from overhanging on or into public right-of-way, sidewalks, walkways, adjacent
land or landscape areas.
   (G)   Maintenance.
      (1)   All off-street parking and loading areas shall be maintained in
good repair, and in safe condition at all times, so as not to constitute a
hazard to public safety or a visual or aesthetic nuisance to surrounding land.
      (2)   All off-street parking and loading areas shall be periodically re-
striped or otherwise restored to maintain a clear identification of separate
parking stalls.
   (H)   Responsibility for provision. The responsibility for providing the
off-street parking and loading areas required by this section shall be that of
whomever develops the land that requires parking and loading areas.
   (I)   Construction of off-street parking and loading areas. All off-street
parking and loading areas shall be completed prior to the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy for the use or uses they serve.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.314  OFF-STREET PARKING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minimum number of spaces required. Unless otherwise expressly stated
in this subchapter, off-street parking spaces shall be provided in accordance
with the following table. Unlisted uses shall conform to the requirements of
the most similar use.
Minimum Off-Street Parking Standards
Uses Spaces Required
Minimum Off-Street Parking Standards
Uses                                                    Spaces Required
Accessory Uses
   Accessory dwelling unit                           1 per unit
   Caretaker dwelling                                1 per unit
   Home occupations (customary)                      2 + required for
                                                        dwelling unit
Agricultural Uses
   Veterinary services (livestock)                   3 per doctor + 1 per
                                                        other employee
Commercial Uses
                                                        1 per employee + 1/100
   Adult entertainment                               sq. ft. of gross floor
                                                        area
                                                        1 per employee + 1/300
   Alcoholic beverage control (ABC) stores           sq. ft. of gross floor
                                                        area
   Animal shelters                                   1 per employee + 1 per
                                                        10 kennels
   Auction houses                                    1/100 sq. ft. of
                                                        auction floor area
   Automobile repair and service centers             1 per employee + 3 per
                                                        service bay
                                                        1 per employee + 1 per
   Automobile sales, rental and leasing              10 vehicle display
                                                        spaces
   Automobile supply stores                          1/300 sq. ft. of gross
                                                        floor area
                                                        1 per employee + 1 per
   Automobile towing and storage                     10 vehicle storage
                                                        spaces
   Banks and credit unions                           1/200 sq. ft. of gross
                                                        floor area
   Barber shops and salons                           3 per employee
                                                        1 per 3 patrons based
   Bars, nightclubs and similar establishments       on design capacity + 1
                                                        per employee
   Bed and breakfast inns                            2 + 1 per rental room
                                                        1 per employee + 10
   Car washes full service self service              stacking spaces 2
                                                        stacking spaces per bay
   Contractors offices                               3 + 1 per employee
   Convenience stores                                1/200 sq. ft. of gross
                                                        floor area
   Crematoriums                                      3 + 1 per employee
   Drug stores and pharmacies                        1/300 sq. ft. of gross
                                                        floor area
                                                        1 per employee + 1/300
   Dry cleaners                                      sq. ft. of gross floor
                                                        area
   Equipment rental and leasing                      1/500 sq. ft. of gross
                                                        floor area
   Equipment repair services                         1/500 sq. ft. of gross
                                                        floor area
   Farm and agricultural supplies, retail            1/500 sq. ft of gross
                                                        floor area
                                                        1 per employee + 1 per
   Farm equipment sales and service                  service bay + 1/1,000
                                                        sq. ft. of equipment
                                                        display area
                                                        1 per employee + 1/300
   Fuel oil sales, retail                            sq. ft. of customer
                                                        service area
   Funeral homes (no crematory services)             1 per employee + 1 per
                                                        4 seats in chapel
   Garden centers and nurseries, retail              1 per employee + 1/400
                                                        sq. ft. of display area
   Gasoline sales, retail                            1 per employee
   General merchandise stores                        1/300 sq. ft. of gross
                                                        floor area
   Grocery stores                                    1/300 sq. ft. of gross
                                                        floor area
   Hardware and home improvement stores              1/300 sq. ft. of gross
                                                        floor area
   Home furnishings stores                           1/500 sq. ft. of gross
                                                        floor area
                                                        1 per employee on
   Hotels and motels                                 largest shift + 1.25
                                                        per room
   Kennels, commercial                               1 per employee + 1 per
                                                        10 kennels
   Landscaping services                              1 per employee
   Laundromats                                       1 per employee + 1 per
                                                        4 washers/dryers
   Manufactured home sales, new                      1 per employee + 1 per
                                                        5 home display spaces
   Medical and dental offices and laboratories       3 per practitioner + 1
                                                        per other employee
   Medical treatment centers                         3 per practitioner + 1
                                                        per other employee
                                                        1 per employee + 1 per
   Motorcycle sales                                  10 vehicle display
                                                        spaces
   Movie theaters                                    1 per employee + 1 per
                                                        4 seats
   Pawnbrokers                                       1/ 300 sq. ft. of gross
                                                        floor area
   Personal services establishments (not otherwise   1/300 sq. ft. of gross
classified)                                             floor area
   Professional offices (not otherwise classified)   1/300 sq. ft. of gross
                                                        floor area
   Recreational vehicle sales                        1 per employee + 1/10
                                                        vehicle display spaces
                                                        1 per employee on
   Restaurants                                       largest shift + 1 per 4
                                                        seats
   Retail sales (not otherwise classified)           1 per 300 sq. ft. of
                                                        gross floor area
   Specialty food and beverage stores                1 per 250 sq. ft. of
                                                        gross floor area
                                                        1 per employee + 2 per
   Tire sales, retail (no outside storage)           service bay + 1/500 sq.
                                                        ft. of display area
   Tattoo and body piercing establishment            2 per practitioner + 1
                                                        per other employee
   Vending stations, unmanned                        3 spaces
   Veterinary services (domestic animals)            3 per doctor + 1 per
                                                        other employee
Government, Educational and Institutional Uses
   Ambulance/EMS stations                            1 per employee on
                                                        largest shift
   Amphitheaters                                     1 per 5 seats
                                                        1 per employee on
   Assisted living/nursing facilities                largest shift + per 4
                                                        residents
   Auditoriums                                       1 per 4 seats
   Churches/religious institutions                   1 per 4 seats in
                                                        sanctuary
   Civic or fraternal organizations                  1 /200 sq. ft. of gross
                                                        floor area
   Colleges and universities                         1 per 3 students + 1
                                                        per employee
   Conference and event centers                      1 per 5 persons based
                                                        on design capacity
   Day care centers, adult                           1 per employee + 1 per
                                                        10 attendees
   Fire stations                                     1 per employee on
                                                        largest shift
                                                        1 per employee + 1/200
   Government offices                                sq. ft. of gross floor
                                                        area
                                                        2 per patient bed + 1/
   Hospitals                                         300 sq. feet of
                                                        administrative area
                                                        1 per 450 sq. ft. of
   Libraries                                         gross floor area + 1
                                                        per employee
                                                        1 per 450 sq. ft. of
   Museums                                           gross floor area + 1
                                                        per employee
   Police stations                                   1 per employee on
                                                        largest shift
                                                        1 per employee + 1/150
   Post offices                                      sq. ft. of public
                                                        service area
   School, elementary                                1 per employee + 2 per
                                                        classroom
   School, middle high                               1 per employee + 2 per
                                                        classroom
   School, senior high                               1 per employee + 1 per
                                                        4 students
   School, trade or vocational                       1 per 3 students + 1
                                                        per employee
Industrial Uses
                                                        1 per employee on
   All industrial uses                               largest shift + 1/300
                                                        sq. ft. of customer
                                                        service/display areas
Recreation Uses
   Commercial recreation, indoor                     1 per 300 sq. ft.
                                                        1 per employee + 1/
   Commercial recreation, outdoor                    3 participants/
                                                        spectators at largest
                                                        event
                                                        1 per employee + 1/300
   Country club                                      sq. ft of gross floor
                                                        area + spaces for
                                                        accessory uses
   Golf course                                       1 per employee + 4 per
                                                        hole
   Golf driving range                                1 per employee + 2 per
                                                        tee
   Horse stables/riding academies                    1 per employee + 1 per
                                                        stall
   Shooting range, indoor                            1 per employee + 1.5
                                                        per lane
   Shooting range, outdoor                           1 per employee + 1.5
                                                        per position
Residential Uses
   Boarding and rooming houses                       2 + 1 per rental unit
   Dwelling, single-family detached                  2 per dwelling unit
   Dwelling, duplex                                  2 per dwelling unit
   Dwelling, multi-family                            1 per 10 units +
      0-1 bedroom units                           1.50 per unit
      2 bedroom units                             1.75 per unit
      3+ bedroom units                            2 .00 per unit
   Dwelling, townhouse                               1 per 10 units +
      0-1 bedroom units                           1.50 per unit
      2 bedroom units                             1.75 per unit
      3+ bedroom units                            2.00 per unit
   Dwelling, live/work                               1 per unit +1 per
                                                        commercial space
   Dwelling, upper story loft                        1 per unit
   Dwelling, manufactured home, Class A              2 per dwelling unit
   Family care home                                  2 + 1 per 3 residents
   Group care facility                               1 per employee + 1 per
                                                        3 residents
   Manufactured home park                            2 per dwelling unit
Temporary Uses
   Flea markets and swap meets                       4 per booth
   Seasonal sales (Christmas trees, pumpkins and the 1 per employee + 1/300
like)                                                   sq. ft. of display area
Transportation, Warehousing and Utility Uses
   Bulk mail or parcel handling facilities           1 per employee on
                                                        largest shift
   Self storage facilities                           1 per employee + 1 per
                                                        10 rental units
   Truck and freight terminals                       1 per employee on
                                                        largest shift
   Warehouses and distribution centers               1 per employee on
                                                        largest shift
Wholesale Uses
                                                        1 per employee on
   All wholesale uses                                largest shift + 1/300
                                                        sq. ft. of customer
                                                        service/display areas
 
   (B)   Maximum number of spaces permitted. Where off-street parking spaces in
excess of 125% of the minimum are provided, all excess parking areas must be
paved with pervious paving materials. In no case shall parking in excess of
150% of the minimum number required be allowed.
   (C)   Minimum separation. Except in the Central Business (CB) District, all
parking areas shall be separated at least ten feet from buildings in order to
allow room for sidewalks, landscaping and other plantings between the building
and the parking area. This separation may be eliminated in the rear of
buildings in areas designed for loading and unloading materials.
   (D)   Cross-access required.
      (1)   General. All development except detached residential and attached
residential development with less than four dwelling units shall be designed to
allow for cross-access to adjacent compatible sites in accordance with the
following standards.
         (a)   Limited to two parcels. Cross-access ways shall be designed and
located based on the standards of this section, but in no case shall a
development be required to provide cross-access to more than two adjacent
parcels.
         (b)   Future stubs required. A stub for future cross-access shall be
provided to all adjacent vacant land designated as GC or OI; and
         (c)   Placement and width. Cross-access ways shall be located and
configured in a manner to provide the most convenient access between adjacent
parcels. No part of a cross-access way shall be located within a street right-
of-way. The minimum width of the cross-access way shall be 22 feet.
      (2)   Waiver.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator shall waive the cross-access standard
if the applicant demonstrates it is impractical to provide cross-access due to:
            1.   Topography or natural features;
            2.   The size and configuration of the site;
            3.   Vehicular safety factors;
            4.   The presence of incompatible uses; or
            5.   Existing development patterns on adjacent developed sites that
make cross-access impossible.
         (b)   When cross-access is waived in accordance with this section,
pedestrian connections shall be provided between adjacent developments or uses,
to the maximum extent practicable.
      (3)   Recording required. Where provided, cross-access easements must be
recorded by the owner/developer of the property prior to the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy.
   (E)   Dimensional standards for parking spaces and drive aisles. The minimum
dimensions for standard car parking spaces and parking lot aisles shall comply
with the table above:
 
Dimensional Standards for Parking Spaces and Aisles
Stall Type Stall Width (feet) Stall Depth (feet) Minimum Aisle Width for Two
                                                 Way Traffic 1
Parallel   8                  25                 22
45 degrees 8.5                18                 24
90 degrees 9                  19                 24
NOTES TO TABLE:
1   The aisle width may be reduced by one-half for one-way traffic.
 
   (F)   Accessible parking for disabled persons. Off-street parking for
disabled persons shall be provided in accordance with Federal ADA (Americans
with Disabilities Act) standards.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.315  LOADING AREA STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minimum number of spaces required. Unless otherwise expressly stated
in this subchapter, loading areas shall be provided in accordance with the
following table:
Loading Area Standards
Use Type Gross Floor Area (sq. ft.) Minimum Number of Spaces
Loading Area Standards
Use Type                  Gross Floor Area (sq. ft.) Minimum Number of Spaces
                          Up to 15,0000              1
                          15,000 - 49,999            2
Industrial uses           50,000 - 124,999           3
                          125,000 - 249,999          4
                          250,000 or more            5 +1 per every additional
                                                     125,000 sq. ft.
Offices                   10,000 or more             1
                          3,000 - 14,999             1
                          15,000 - 49,999            2
Retail sales and service  50,000 - 99,999            3
                          100,000 or more            4 + 1 per every additional
                                                     100,000 sq. ft.
                          Up to 15,000               1
Wholesale and warehousing 15,000 - 49,999            2
(except self storage)     50,000 or more             3 + 1 per every additional
                                                     50,000 sq. ft.
 
   (B)   Design standards.
      (1)   Minimum dimensions.
         (a)   Each loading berth or space required by this subsection shall be
at least ten feet wide by 50 feet long (or deep), with at least 15 feet of
overhead clearance. Each off-street loading space shall have adequate,
unobstructed paths for the ingress and egress of vehicles.
         (b)   Uses with between 2,000 and 5,000 square feet of floor area that
are required to provide an off-street loading space may provide a space which
is ten feet wide by 30 feet long (deep), with at least 15 feet of overhead
clearance.
      (2)   Location. Where possible, loading areas shall be located to the
rear of the use they serve. In addition, the loading area shall be located
adjacent to the buildings loading doors, in an area that promotes their
practical use.
      (3)   Delineation of loading spaces. All loading spaces shall be
delineated by signage, striping and labeling of the pavement.
      (4)   Access to a street. Every loading area shall be provided with safe
and convenient access to a street, but in no case shall the loading space
extend into the required aisle of the parking lot.
      (5)   Paving. The ground surface of loading areas shall be paved with a
durable, dust free and hard material, such as surface and seal treatment,
bituminous hot mix or portland cement, concrete or some comparable material.
Such paving shall be maintained for safe and convenient use at all times.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.316  STACKING SPACE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minimum number of spaces required. In addition to meeting the off-
street parking standards in the table in §
152.314 of this chapter, uses with drive-through facilities or similar auto-
orientation shall comply with the minimum stacking space standards in the table
below:
Required Stacking/Standing Spaces
Type of Use/Activity Minimum Stacking Spaces Measured From
Required Stacking/Standing Spaces
Type of Use/Activity           Minimum Stacking Spaces      Measured From
Automated teller machine       3                            Teller machine
Automobile repair and service  3 per service bay            Bay entrance
Car wash (automatic)           3                            Bay entrance
Car wash (full service)        10                           Bay entrance
Day care center                6                            Building entrance
Financial institution          5 per lane                   Teller window
Gasoline sales                 30 feet from each end of the
                               outermost island
Nursing home                   3                            Building entrance
Restaurant drive-through       8                            Pick-up window
Retail sales and service (drug
store, dry cleaning and the    5 per lane                   Agent window
like)
                               Determined by the Ordinance
Unlisted uses                  Administrator based on the
                               size and type of use
 
   (B)   Dimensional standards. Stacking spaces shall be a minimum of 12 feet
wide and 20 feet deep.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.317  PEDESTRIAN AND BICYCLE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Pedestrian circulation. Off-street parking lots of 25 or more spaces
shall include pedestrian corridors through parking areas and sidewalks along
building facades to accommodate safe pedestrian travel. Pedestrian corridors
shall be demarcated by painting, material changes or differing heights where
they cross-vehicular travel ways.
   (B)   Pedestrian pathways through lots. Off-street parking lots containing
150 or more spaces shall provide fully separated pedestrian pathways within the
parking lot. These pathways shall:
      (1)   Be located within planted landscaping strips located a minimum of
every 130 feet or every four parking rows;
      (2)   Be paved with asphalt, cement or other comparable material;
      (3)   Be of contrasting color or materials when crossing drive aisles;
      (4)   Be at least three feet in width when located within planting strips
and ten feet in width when crossing drive aisles;
      (5)   Terminate at drive aisle edges;
      (6)   Be positively drained; and
      (7)   Provide safe and efficient pedestrian access to the use they serve.
   (C)   Bicycle parking. All development with parking areas with 50 or more
spaces shall provide bicycle parking facilities, which shall comply with the
following standards.
      (1)   Bicycle parking spaces shall be conveniently located, but in no
case shall such facilities be located farther than 100 linear feet from the
primary building entrance.
      (2)   Bicycle parking spaces shall be provided at the rate of one space
per ten off-street parking spaces, with a maximum requirement of ten bicycle
spaces.
      (3)   Bicycle facilities shall include a rack or other device to enable
bicycles to be secured.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 152.330  PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose and intent of this subchapter is to support and complement
the various land uses allowed in the town and its extraterritorial jurisdiction
through the regulation of various signs.
   (B)   More specifically, the purpose of this chapter is to:
      (1)   Encourage effective use. Encourage the effective use of signs as a
means of communication in the town;
      (2)   Maintain and enhance character. To maintain and enhance the beauty
and unique character and enhance the aesthetic environment of the town by
eliminating visual blight;
      (3)   Enhance economic growth. To enhance the town’s ability to attract
sources of economic growth and development;
      (4)   Maintain safe conditions. To protect pedestrians and motorists of
the town from damage or injury caused or partially attributed to the
distractions and obstructions caused by improper size and location of signs;
      (5)   Minimize adverse effects. To minimize the possible adverse effect
of signs on nearby public and private property; and
      (6)   Promote public safety, health and welfare. To promote public
safety, health, welfare, convenience and enjoyment of travel and the free flow
of travel within the town.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.331  APPLICABILITY.
   Unless exempted in accordance with §
152.332 of this chapter, no sign allowed by this subchapter shall be
constructed, erected, moved, enlarged, illuminated, altered, maintained or
displayed without first being issued a zoning permit.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.332  EXEMPT SIGNS.
   The following types of signs shall be exempt from the requirement to obtain
a zoning permit and may be located on a lot within any base zoning district;
provided, the sign is located outside the right-of-way and complies with all
applicable requirements in this subchapter.
   (A)   Commercial signs. Internally directed device signs which are not
intended to be read from a public right-of-way and do not exceed 32 square feet
in area are exempt.
   (B)   Incidental signs.
      (1)   Public interest and incidental signs less than two square feet in
size; and
      (2)   Flags and pennants; provided:
         (a)   No display pole exceeds 35 feet in height;
         (b)   Flags do not exceed 60 square feet in size; and
         (c)   Flags are limited to a maximum of three per site.
   (C)   Public and governmental signs. Any sign installed by public or
governmental agencies.
   (D)   Sandwich board signs. Sandwich board signs on lots within the General
Commercial (GC) and Central Business (CB) Base Zoning Districts; provided, the
sign:
      (1)   Is limited to a maximum area of 12 square feet or less (for both
sides);
      (2)   Does not exceed four feet in height;
      (3)   Is located so as to maintain at least five linear feet of clearance
for pedestrian travel;
      (4)   Is limited to a maximum of one per establishment; and
      (5)   Is removed each evening following the close of the business it
serves.
   (E)   Temporary signs.
      (1)   One temporary yard signs is allowed per lot at any time; provided:
         (a)   The sign face is no larger than two square feet;
         (b)   Signs are placed at least five feet behind the right-of-way and
out of any sight triangles; and
         (c)   No sign is illuminated.
      (2)   In addition to the base number of yard signs allowable, additional
temporary yard signs are permissible.
         (a)   An additional temporary yard sign is permitted when a property
is for sale, lease, rent or during construction; provided:
            1.   There is no more than one sign per street frontage;
            2.   Signs do not exceed a maximum of ten square feet in area per
sign on a lot in a residential base zoning district and 32 square feet per sign
on a lot in any other base zoning district;
            3.   Signs on corner lots are located at least 100 linear feet
apart as measured by the shortest straight line between them;
            4.   Signs are removed within seven days after the property is
sold, rented, leased or construction has been completed; and
            5.   No sign is illuminated.
         (b)   Two additional temporary yard signs are permitted 60 days before
and seven days after an election; provided that, no sign exceeds 12 square feet
in area.
      (3)   On-premises pennants, flags and streamers may be permitted for one
consecutive 30- day period per establishment per calendar year.
      (4)   Temporary banners may be permitted; provided, they are:
         (a)   Limited to a maximum of 75 square feet in area;
         (b)   Attached to primary facade of a principal structure or set back
50 feet from a street right-of-way;
         (c)   Not attached to a roof structure or an existing sign face;
         (d)   Not located above the second floor level; and
         (e)   Limited to a maximum of two per establishment per calendar year,
for periods not to exceed 15 consecutive days.
   (F)   Signs where agriculture is the primary use.
      (1)   Signs are limited to a maximum of one per lot.
      (2)   The sign is located outside the street right-of-way and at least
ten feet from any side lot line.
      (3)   The sign has a maximum area of nine square feet.
      (4)   The sign is not illuminated.
   (G)   Window signs. Window signs on the ground floor of a commercial use
provided the window sign(s) occupies less than 50% of the total window area on
the building side where it is located.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.333  PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs shall be prohibited, except as otherwise allowed in this
chapter:
   (A)   Signs interfering with traffic safety. Any sign that obstructs the
view of bicyclists or motorists using any street, approach to any street
intersection or which interferes with the effectiveness of or obscures any
traffic sign, device or signal as determined by the Ordinance Administrator;
   (B)   Signs misconstrued as regulatory. Signs which contain lights, rotating
disks, words and other devices not erected by a public authority which may be
erroneously construed as regulatory signs or emergency warning signs. An
example of this is a sign which contains a picture of a traffic sign, plus the
word “Stop” or “Yield”;
   (C)   Signs within the right-of-way. Any sign (other than a regulatory
sign), banner or display placed on any curb, sidewalk, post, pole, hydrant,
bridge, tree or other surface located on, over or across any street or right-
of-way, or any banner, placed on stakes on a property, unless otherwise
permitted;
   (D)   Signs blocking existing signs. Any sign located in such a way as to
intentionally deny visual access to another existing sign;
   (E)   Flashing signs. Signs with flashing or reflective disks, signs with
flashing lights or lights of changing degree of intensity or color (except
regulatory signs);
   (F)   Signs on stakes. On- or off-premise pole signs or signs on metal or
wood stakes not affixed to a permanent foundation (excluding regulatory signs
and temporary signs);
   (G)   Portable signs. Portable signs, including marquee signs with the
wheels and axles that have been removed and placed on permanent foundations;
   (H)   Vehicular signs. Vehicular signs placed or parked in such a manner to
advertise from any street right-of-way. This also includes billboards or
outdoor advertising signs mounted to the bed of a truck;
   (I)   Moving or rotating signs. Signs which rotate or have any mechanical or
wind driven components that cause the sign to move or transform;
   (J)   Roof signs. Roof signs that extend above the soffit of a pitched roof,
or above the highest point of a mansard roof or parapet wall;
   (K)   Billboards. Off-premises commercial advertising signs (e.g.,
billboards) of any size and in any area, except those signs part of the Federal
Aid Primary System (FAP) and subject to the requirements of the Highway
Beautification Act, being 23 U.S.C. § 131; and
   (L)   Inflatable signs. Inflatable signs (including inflated balloons with a
diameter of greater than two feet), except as allowed as part of a temporary
display as part of a holiday or civic event.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.334  GENERAL SIGN PROVISIONS.
   (A)   General standards. All permitted signs shall comply with the following
general standards.
      (1)   Signs shall be integrated with the design of the building and shall
not obscure architectural features.
      (2)   Any structurally-unsafe sign that endangers the public safety shall
be immediately removed or repaired and made otherwise compliant with the
requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   No sign shall be located so as to impair traffic visibility.
      (4)   Each principal structure shall include street address numbers a
minimum of three inches in height that are visible from the street the
structure faces.
   (B)   Computation of sign area.
      (1)   General.
         (a)   The area of a sign face (which is also the sign area of a wall
sign or other sign with only one face) shall be computed by means of the
smallest rectangle that will encompass the limits of the writing, emblem or
other display, together with any material or color forming an integral part of
the background of the display or used to differentiate the sign from the
backdrop or structure against which it is placed, but not including any
supporting framework, base, bracing or decorative fence or wall when such fence
or wall otherwise meets the regulations of this chapter and is clearly
incidental to the display itself.
         (b)   For a single wall, all pieces of information or other graphic
representations within a grouping on that wall shall be measured as though part
of one sign, encompassed within one rectangle, which may not exceed the
permitted total wall area to which the sign is affixed. For a single wall on a
multi- occupant building, the area of signs shall be computed using these
principles and the aggregate copy of each
      (2)   Authority to remove signs in the right-of-way. Except where
authorized, signs within a public right-of-way shall be prohibited. The town
may remove and dispose of any sign located in the public right-of-way without
providing prior notice to the sign’s owner.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.335  SIGNS PERMITTED WITH A ZONING PERMIT.
   This subchapter includes the standards on the types of signs required to
obtain a zoning permit prior to construction, erection, enlargement, display,
alteration or illumination.
   (A)   Permitted signs by base zoning district. The following table
prescribes the allowable types, numbers, dimensions, locations and
configurations of permitted signs within the base zoning districts.
Permitted Signs by Base Zoning District
                   Maximum Area  Maximum      Maximum
Sign Type Use Type (Sq. Ft. per  Height (Ft.) Number  Location Illumination1
                   Side)
Permitted Signs by Base Zoning District
                                 Maximum
                                 Area     Maximum    Maximum
Sign Type          Use Type      (Sq. Ft. Height     Number        Location    Illumination1
                                 per      (Ft.)
                                 Side)
AG District
                                          Limited to
                                 50% of   awnings
   Awning sign  Commercial    awning   associated N/A           N/A         N
                                 area     with the
                                          1st floor
                                                                   5 feet
                   Civic and                                       behind curb
   Directory siginstitutional 6        4          2             or 10 feet  E
                                                                   from edge
                                                                   of pavement
                                                                   At least 5
                                                                   feet behind
                                                     1 per street  ROW and at
   Freestanding Commercial    100      20         frontage      least 10    I
sign                                                 (max. 2)      feet from
                                                                   any
                                                                   property
                                                                   line
                                                                   At least 5
                                                     1 per street  feet behind
                                                     frontage with ROW and at
   Monument signNon-          60       6*         minimum 200   least 10    E
                   residential                       feet of       feet from
                                                     separation    any
                                                     between signs property
                                                                   line
                                          1-story
                                          building:
                                          below roof
                   Non-          5% of    2-+ story
   Wall sign    residential   wall     building:  1 per I       N/A         I
                                 area     below sill
                                          of 2nd
                                          floor
                                          windows
                                 50% of
                                 total
                   Non-          window                            First floor
   Window sign  residential   area on                           primary     N
                                 first                             facade
                                 floor
                                 facade
GC District
                                          Limited to
                                 50% of   awnings
   Awning sign  All uses      awning   associated N/A           N/A         N
                                 area     with the
                                          1st floor
                   Commercial    10% of              1 per street
   Canopy sign  use with fuel canopy   N/A        frontage      N/A         N
                   sales         area
                                                                   5 feet
                   Civic and                                       behind curb
                   institutional 6        4          2             or 10 feet
                                                                   from edge
   Directory sign                                               of pavement E
                                 10 per                            Not visible
                                 tenant              1 per street  from
                   Commercial    up to 50 6          entrance      outside of
                                 sq. ft.                           the
                                                                   development
                   Single use on
                   an individual 75       15                       At least 5
                   lot                                             feet behind
                                                                   ROW and at
   Freestanding                                   1 per street  least 5
sign                                                 frontage      feet from   I
                   Shopping      100      20         (max. 2)      any
                   center                                          property
                                                                   line


                                                                   At least 5
                                                     1 per street  feet behind
                                                     frontage with ROW and at
   Monument signAll uses      60       8*         minimum 200   least 10    E
                                                     feet of       feet from
                                                     separation    any
                                                     between signs property
                                                                   line
                                                                   Sign shall
                                                                   maintain a
                                                     1 per         minimum 8-
   Projecting siAll uses      15       8          establishment foot        I
                                                                   clearance
                                                                   when above
                                                                   a sidewalk
                                          1-story
                                 1.5 per  building:
                                 linear   below roof
   Wall sign                  foot of  2-+ story
(front)            All uses      building building:  4             N/A         I
                                 facing a below sill
                                 street   of 2nd
                                          floor
                                          windows
   Wall sign                  5% of
(side)             All uses      wall                2 per facade
                                 area
                                 50% of
                                 total
                                 window                            First floor
   Window sign  All uses      area on                           primary     N
                                 first                             facade
                                 floor
                                 facade
I District
                                          Limited to
                                 50% of   awnings
   Awning sign  All uses      awning   associated N/A           N/A         N
                                 area     with the
                                          1st floor
                   Commercial    10% of              1 per street
   Canopy sign  use with fuel canopy   N/A        frontage      N/A         N
                   sales         area
                                                                   At least 5
                                                                   feet behind
                                                     1 per street  ROW and at
   Freestanding All uses      150      25         frontage      least 5     I
sign                                                 (max. 2)      feet from
                                                                   any
                                                                   property
                                                                   line
                                                                   At least 5
                                                     1 per street  feet behind
                                                     frontage with ROW and at
   Monument signAll uses      80       8*         minimum 200   least 10    E
                                                     feet of       feet from
                                                     separation    any
                                                     between signs property
                                                                   line
                                 2 per
                                 linear
   Wall sign                  foot of
(front)            All uses      building            4
                                 facing   Below the                N/A         I
                                 the      roof
                                 street
   Wall sign                  10% of
(side)             All uses      wall                2 per facade
                                 area
                                 50% of
                                 total
                                 window                            First floor
   Window sign  All uses      area on                           primary     N
                                 first                             facade
                                 floor
                                 facade
OI and CB Districts
                                          Limited to
                   Non-          50% of   awnings
   Awning sign  residential   awning   associated N/A           N/A         N
                                 area     with the
                                          1st floor.
                   Commercial    10% of              1 per street
   Canopy sign  use with fuel canopy   N/A        frontage      N/A         N
                   sales         area
                                                                   5 feet
                   Civic and                                       behind curb
                   institutional 6        4          2             or 10 feet  E
                                                                   from edge
   Directory sign                                               of pavement
                                 10 per                            Not visible
                                 tenant              1 per street  from
                   Commercial    up to 50 6          entrance      outside of
                                 sq. ft.                           the
                                                                   development
                                 16       7 feet                   2-foot
   Hanging sign All uses      inches   above      1 per         clearance   N
                                 by 36    sidewalk   establishment under
                                 inches   (minimum)                awning
                   All uses
                   (except       36
                   multi-tenant                                    At least 5
                   buildings)                        1 per street  feet behind
                                                     frontage with ROW and at
   Monument sign                       6*         minimum 200   least 10    E
                                                     feet of       feet from
                   Multi-tenant  48                  separation    any
                   Buildings                         between signs property
                                                                   line


                                                                   Sign shall
                                                                   maintain a
                                                     1 per         minimum 8-
   Projecting siAll uses      15       8          establishment foot        I
                                                                   clearance
                                                                   when above
                                                                   a sidewalk
                                          1-story
                                 1 per    building:
                                 linear   below roof
   Wall sign                  foot of  2-+ story
(front)            All uses      building building:  2             N/A         I
                                 facing   below sill
                                 the      of 2nd
                                 street   floor
                                          windows
   Wall sign                  5% of
(side)             All uses      wall                1 per facade
                                 area
                                 50% of
                                 total
                                 window                            First floor
   Window sign  All uses      area on                           primary     N
                                 first                             facade
                                 floor
                                 facade
R-3, R-10 and R-15 Districts
                                                                   5 feet
                   Civic and                                       behind curb
   Directory siginstitutional 6        4          2             or 10 feet  E
                                                                   from edge
                                                                   of pavement
                   SF detached
                   residential                                     At least 5
                   subdivision                       1 per street  feet behind
                   Attached      36                  entrance      ROW and at
                   residential                                     least 10
   Monument sign(min. 10               6*                       feet from   E
                   units)                                          any
                                                                   property
                   Civic and     48                  1 per         line
                   institutional                     establishment

                                          1-story
                                          building:
                                          below roof
                   Civic and     5% of    2-+ story
   Wall sign    Institutional wall     building:  1 per facade  N/A         I
                                 area     below sill
                                          of 2nd
                                          floor
                                          windows
NOTES TO TABLE:
1. Key To Illumination notes:
E = External illumination
I = Internal illumination
N= No illumination allowed
* The Zoning Administrator may permit monument sign heights up to 15 feet when the lot on
which the sign is located fronts a highway and the additional height will not create a
safety hazard.
 
   (B)   Additional sign standards. The following standards shall apply in
addition to the standards in the table above.
      (1)   Wall signs.
         (a)   The maximum permitted aggregate area of wall signs includes the
area of any windows or doorways.
         (b)   The preferred location for wall signs is between the first floor
window and window sill of second floor, or on the sign frieze area of building
(if original to building). Building identification signs that are an integral
part of the building’s design and architectural character shall not be
considered a sign for the purposes of this standard.
         (c)   A projecting sign may be substituted for a wall sign.
         (d)   No wall sign shall project more than 18 inches from the building
wall.
         (e)   No wall sign or its supporting structure shall cover any window
or part of a window.
      (2)   Monument signs. Only buildings set back 20 feet or more from the
right-of-way may use a monument sign.
      (3)   Free standing signs.
         (a)   Only buildings set back 35 feet or more from the right-of-way
may use a freestanding sign.
         (b)   The maximum height shall be as measured from street grade or the
sidewalk (where one exists), whichever is less.
      (4)   Projecting signs.
         (a)   A projecting sign may project horizontally a maximum of six
feet, but shall be set back at least two feet from the back face of the curb or
outer edge of the pavement where there is no curb. Setback distances for
projecting signs that front on state roads must be approved by the state’s
Department of Transportation.
         (b)   A projecting sign shall be erected at a height of not less than
eight feet above the pedestrian walkway.
         (c)   A projecting sign shall not extend beyond the roofline of the
building to which it is attached.
         (d)   A projecting sign shall not exceed 15 square feet in area.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
SUBDIVISION STANDARDS
§ 152.350  DESIGN.
   All proposed subdivisions, including group developments, shall comply with
this subchapter, and shall be designed to promote beneficial development of the
community and shall bear a reasonable relationship to the approved plans of the
town.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.351  REASONABLE RELATIONSHIP.
   All required improvements, easements and rights- of-way (other than required
reservations) shall substantially benefit the development or bear a reasonable
relationship to the need for public facilities attributable to the new
development.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.352  OFF-SITE CONNECTIONS.
   When, in the opinion of the approving body, it is necessary to connect
streets and/or utilities off-site to adjoining streets and/or utilities, said
improvements may be required in accordance with town policy.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.353  LAND SUITABILITY.
   Land which has been determined, on the basis of an engineering assessment or
other expert survey, to pose an ascertainable danger to life or property by
reason of its unsuitability for the use proposed shall not be platted for that
purpose until the subdivider has taken the necessary measures to correct said
conditions and to eliminate said dangers. Areas that have been used for
disposal of solid waste shall not be subdivided unless tests by the county’s
Health Department, a structural engineer and a soils expert determine that the
land is suitable for the purpose proposed.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.354  PLACEMENT OF MONUMENTS.
   The Standards of Practice for Land Surveying in North Carolina, as adopted
by the state’s Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and Land
Surveyors, shall apply when installing permanent monuments.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.355  PROPERTY OWNERS’ ASSOCIATIONS.
   (A)   Creation. An owners’ association shall be established to fulfill
requirements of the state’s Condominium Act being G.S. §§ 47C-1-101 et seq.,
the Planned Community Act being G.S. §§ 47F-1-101 et seq. or to accept
conveyance and maintenance of all common elements (common areas) within a
development. The owners’ association shall be in legal existence prior to the
conveyance, lease-option or other long-term transfer of control of any unit or
lot in the development.
   (B)   Conveyance. Where developments have common elements serving more than
one dwelling unit, these areas shall be conveyed to the owners’ association, in
which all owners of lots in the development shall be members. All areas other
than public street rights-of-way, other areas dedicated to the town, and lots
shall be designated as common elements. In a condominium development the common
elements shall be platted in accordance with the state’s Condominium Act. In
other developments, the fee- simple title shall be conveyed by the subdivider
or developer to the owners’ association prior to the sale of the first lot.
   (C)   Subdivision or conveyance of common elements. Common elements shall
not subsequently be subdivided or conveyed by the owners’ association unless a
revised preliminary plat and a revised final plat showing such subdivision or
conveyance have been submitted and approved.
   (D)   Minimize number of associations. Developments, whether including
different land uses, different types of housing or simply different sections,
shall hold the number of owners’ associations to a minimum. An association may
establish different categories of membership, different budgets for the
categories and different rates of assessment when different kinds of services
are provided to different categories. Smaller associations under an umbrella
(master) association are permitted.
   (E)   Exemption from owners’ association requirement. A development
involving only two units attached by a party wall (or two separate walls back-
to-back) shall not be required to have common elements or an owners’
association. Such developments without an owners’ association shall establish a
binding agreement between owners to govern any party walls and to ensure
reciprocal easement rights needed for maintenance.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.356  LOT DIMENSIONS AND STANDARDS.
   The size, shape and orientation of lots shall be appropriate for the
location of the proposed subdivision and for the type of development
contemplated and shall conform to the following.
   (A)   Conformance with other regulations. Every lot shall have sufficient
area, dimensions and street access to permit a principal building to be erected
thereon in compliance with all zoning and other requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Minimum building area. Every lot shall have at least a contiguous
buildable area of a shape sufficient to hold a principal building. Said area
shall lie at or be filled to an elevation at least one foot above the 100-year
flood elevation.
   (C)   Lot depth to width ratio. No lot shall have a depth greater than four
times the width at the minimum front street setback.
   (D)   Side lot line configuration. Side lines of lots should be at or near
right angles or radial to street lines.
   (E)   Lot lines and drainage. Lot boundaries shall coincide with natural and
pre-existing manmade drainageways to the extent practicable to avoid lots that
can be built upon only by altering such drainageways.
   (F)   Lots on thoroughfares. Major subdivisions shall not be approved that
permit individual residential lots to access major and minor thoroughfares.
   (G)   Access requirements.
      (1)   All lots must have public street access and frontage meeting the
requirements set forth in §§
152.130 through
152.134 of this chapter or as follows.
      (2)   Flag lots meeting the following requirements.
         (a)   A flag lot shall contain only one single-family dwelling and its
uninhabited accessory structures.
         (b)   The maximum flagpole length shall be 300 feet which includes the
flagpole neck length and accompanying lot depth.
         (c)   The minimum flagpole width shall be 25 feet.
         (d)   The maximum lot size in areas with public sewer shall be one
acre.
         (e)   The maximum lot size without public sewer shall be three acres.
(Note: the flagpole portion of the lot is not used to calculate area, width,
depth, coverage and setbacks of the lot or to provide off-street parking.)
         (f)   Where public water is available, any building on the flag lot
must be within 500 feet of a fire hydrant. This distance shall be measured
along the street, then along the flagpole, then in a straight line to the
building location.
         (g)   Where public sewer is available, occupied buildings on the flag
lot shall have a gravity service line, or the sewer pump requirement shall be
noted on the plat.
         (h)   Use of a single driveway to serve adjoining flag lots or to
serve a flag lot and an adjoining conventional lot is permitted and encouraged.
In the latter case, the preferred location for the driveway is on the flagpole
portion of the flag lot, with the conventional lot granted an access easement
over the flagpole.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.357  STREETS.
   (A)   Dedication of right-of-way. Right-of-way for public streets shall be
dedicated to the town pursuant to G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 2, and other
applicable state laws. When dedication cannot be required, any future street
right-of-way indicated on adopted thoroughfare plans or collector street plans
shall be shown on the plat.
   (B)   Conformance with thoroughfare plans and collector street plans. The
location and design of streets shall be in conformance with applicable
thoroughfare plans and collector street plans. Where conditions warrant, right-
of-way widths and pavement widths in excess of the minimum street standards may
be required.
   (C)   Conformance with adjoining street systems. The planned street layout
of a proposed subdivision shall be compatible with existing or proposed streets
and their classifications on adjoining or nearby tracts.
   (D)   Access to adjoining property. Where in the opinion of the approving
body, it is desirable to provide for street access to adjoining property,
proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary of such property. The
minimum number of points of street access shall be based on the number of
dwelling units in the proposed development as set forth below:
      (1)   Residential developments with more than 50 lots or dwelling units
shall have at least two separate points of public road access.
      (2)   Residential developments with more than 150 lots or dwelling units
shall have at least three separate points of public road access.
   (E)   Reserve strips. Reserve strips adjoining street rights-of-way for the
purpose of preventing access to adjacent property shall not be permitted under
any condition.
   (F)   Street classification. The final determination of the classification
of streets in a proposed subdivision shall be made by the town. Street
classifications are defined in §
152.012 of this chapter.
   (G)   Public street design criteria. Public streets shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards contained in the NCDOT Roadway Design Manual or
the NCDOT Subdivision Roads Minimum Construction Standards, as appropriate.
   (H)   Private street design criteria.
      (1)   Where permitted. Private streets shall be permitted in single-
family detached residential developments, townhouses developments and in
residential developments that are gated or otherwise secured self-contained
developments that have their access to public street(s) at one or more secured
points.
      (2)   Design and construction. The pavement, construction and design
standards for all private streets will be equivalent to the standards for local
residential streets unless the developer supplies an alternate pavement design
(supported by an engineering study) approved by the town. The developer must
furnish an engineer’s seal and certification that the private streets have been
tested and certified for the subgrade, base and asphalt. Common area may need
to be widened to include the side ditch section. All cul-de-sacs shall have a
minimum 40-foot pavement radius.
      (3)   Through streets. No through street in a residential area connecting
two public streets can be designated as a private street.
      (4)   Connections to public streets. All private streets connecting with
public streets require approved driveway applications from the town (or NCDOT
if applicable).
      (5)   Sidewalks. Where sidewalks are installed, they shall be in
accordance with all applicable standards as specified in this chapter and shall
meet or exceed the town’s standard specifications for sidewalks.
   (I)   Street intersections. Street intersections shall be as nearly at right
angles as possible. Property lines at street intersections shall be a tangent
connecting points on each right-of-way line, which are located a minimum
distance of 20 feet back from the intersection of the two right-of-way lines in
residentially zoned areas and 50 feet in non-residential zoned areas.
   (J)   Streets crossing natural areas. All streets crossing natural areas,
wetlands or streams shall cross at or as near to 90 degrees as possible within
topographic limits.
   (K)   Spacing between intersections. Offset intersections are not desirable
and should be avoided. Intersections that cannot be aligned should be separated
in accordance with the design standards established by street classification.
The higher classification street involved shall determine the distance between
intersections along that street. In the event of unusual topography, a distance
less than the design standard, but in no case less than 150 feet, may be
allowed by the approving body.
   (L)   Maximum length of blocks and cul-de-sacs. The maximum length of a
block and the maximum distance from an intersecting through street to the end
of a cul-de-sac shall be 1,000 feet.
   (M)   Temporary turnarounds. Streets stubbed to adjoining property or to
phase lines may be required to have temporary turnarounds at the end of the
street sufficient to permit sanitation vehicles to turn around.
   (N)   Grades at intersections. The grade on stop streets approaching an
intersection shall not exceed 5% for a distance of 100 feet from the centerline
of the intersection.
   (O)   Street names. Street names, prefixes, suffixes and addresses shall
conform to the guidelines and policies set forth by the county’s E-911 street
naming and addressing standards.
   (P)   Street and traffic-control signs.
      (1)   Street signs.
         (a)   The town shall erect street name signs at each intersection of
public streets. Public street signs shall contain white lettering on a green
background. The town shall be reimbursed by the developer for the expense of
installing these signs.
         (b)   At each intersection of a named private street or drive with a
public street, the town shall erect a street name sign and the developer shall
reimburse the town for the expense of installing the sign.
         (c)   At each intersection between private streets or drives, the
developer shall be required to erect and maintain signs fabricated with
retroreflective material, with green lettering on a white background as
approved by the town.
      (2)   Traffic-control signs. The developer shall provide traffic control
signs that meet the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD) standards
in locations designated by the town.
      (3)   Maintenance. Maintenance of signs on private streets or drives
shall be the responsibility of the owner or owners’ association, as
appropriate.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.358  SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   General. Sidewalks shall be installed along public streets that are
within or abut a subdivision and at other locations as specified below.
   (B)   Required locations.
      (1)   Along both sides of new and existing major thoroughfares and minor
thoroughfares.
      (2)   Along one side of new and existing collector and sub-collector
streets, except that upon review by the approving body, both sides may be
required where one or more of the following conditions exists:
         (a)   The current or projected average daily traffic volume is greater
than 8,000 vehicles per day;
         (b)   The posted speed limit is greater than 35 mph;
         (c)   The street is identified as a pedestrian route on the town’s
Pedestrian Plan; and
         (d)   Other pedestrian safety, access or circulation needs are
identified.
      (3)   Along one side of new and existing local streets, unless other
pedestrian safety, access or circulation needs are identified.
   (C)   Exempt locations.
      (1)   Along new and existing local and sub-collector residential streets
where, upon review by the approving body, the following conditions are found to
exist:
         (a)   The proposed development is within an area consisting
predominantly of existing single-family residential development, where no
sidewalks are present;
         (b)   The character and size of the proposed development will not
result in substantial additional pedestrian facility needs; and
         (c)   There are no new pedestrian facilities planned or identified in
the town’s Pedestrian Plan that would provide a pedestrian connection to the
proposed development.
      (2)   Along existing streets in predominantly industrial areas where no
sidewalks are present and where, upon review by the approving body, a sidewalk
is not deemed necessary or feasible.
      (3)   Along new and existing cul-de-sac streets and permanent dead-end
streets, which are 800 feet or less in length and which are not strategic
pedestrian routes.
   (D)   Extent.
      (1)   Sidewalks required by this chapter shall be constructed along that
portion of the street or streets that the parcel abuts, for the full length of
the property line abutting the street or streets.
      (2)   Where sidewalks are required to be installed on one side of a
street, the approving body shall determine upon which side the sidewalks are to
be installed, in accordance with the town’s standard specifications for
sidewalks.
   (E)   Construction standards. All sidewalks, whether required by this
chapter or installed voluntarily, shall be constructed to the town’s standard
specification for sidewalks and have a minimum width of five feet and a minimum
thickness of four inches of concrete.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.359  UTILITIES.
   (A)   Public water and sewer construction requirements. Water and sewer
lines, connections and equipment shall be constructed in accordance with the
town’s standard specification for utility line construction.
   (B)   Water and sewer connections. Connection of each lot to public water
and sewer utilities shall be required if the proposed subdivision is within 300
feet of the nearest adequate line of a public system, provided that no
geographic or topographic factors would make such connection infeasible. Where
public sewer is not available, lots shall meet applicable County Environmental
Health Division regulations. Approval of the Environmental Health Division
shall be obtained after preliminary plat approval. The final plat shall show
the certificate of approval from the Environmental Health Division as shown in
§
152.362 of this chapter.
   (C)   Underground utilities. Electrical, telecommunication, cable television
and other utility lines installed within major subdivisions shall be
underground unless the approving body determines underground installation is
inappropriate.
   (D)   Utility easements.
      (1)   Widths. To provide for electric, telecommunication, cable
television and gas services, conduits and water and sewer lines within a
subdivision, appropriate utility easements not to exceed 30 feet in width shall
be provided. The location of such easements shall be reviewed and approved by
the approving body, with advice from utility providers, before final plat
approval.
      (2)   Restrictions on improvements. Utility easements shall be kept free
and clear of any buildings or other improvements that would interfere with the
proper maintenance or replacement of utilities. The town shall not be liable
for damages to any improvement located within the utility easement area caused
by maintenance or replacement of utilities located therein.
   (E)   Street lights. All subdivisions and developments involving public
streets within the corporate limits shall have public street lights provided
and be maintained by the town or the town’s agent.
   (F)   Fire protection. Fire protection equipment shall be installed in
locations as determined by the town’s Volunteer Fire Department in consultation
with the town or county water system supervisor as appropriate.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.360  FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION.
   All subdivision proposals shall be designed in a manner consistent with the
need to minimize flood damage and shall comply with all requirements set forth
in
Ch. 151 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.361  SUBDIVISION PLAT CONTENT STANDARDS.
Preliminary Final Information
Preliminary Final Information
Title block containing
X           X     Property designation
X           X     Name of property owner
X           X     Location
X           X     Date or dates survey was conducted and plat prepared
X           X     Scale in feet per inch in words or figures and a bar graph
X           X     Name, address, registration number and seal of the registered land surveyor
                  and/or engineer who prepared the plat
The following data concerning location and land use
X           X     Sketch vicinity map showing the relationship between the proposed subdivision
                  and surrounding area
X           X     Corporate limits
X           X     Town Historic District boundaries if applicable
X           X     North arrow and orientation
X                 The boundaries of the tract or portion thereof to be subdivided distinctly
                  and accurately represented with all bearings and distances shown
                  The exact boundary lines of the tract to be subdivided, fully dimensioned by
            X     lengths and bearings and the location of existing boundary lines of adjoining
                  lands
X           X     The names of owners of adjoining properties
X           X     The name of any adjoining subdivision of record or those under review
X           X     Minimum building setback lines
X                 The zoning classifications of the tract to be subdivided and adjoining
                  properties, if applicable
X           X     Existing property lines on the tract to be subdivided
X           X     Existing buildings or other structures, watercourses, railroads, bridges and
                  the like
X           X     Proposed lot lines, lot and block numbers and approximate dimensions
X           X     The lots numbered consecutively throughout the subdivision
X           X     Wooded areas, marshes, swamps, out-crops, ponds or lakes, streams or stream
                  beds and other natural features affecting the site
X           X     The exact location of the flood hazard areas from the community’s FHBM or
                  other FEMA maps
X           X     Base flood elevations
X           X     404 wetland boundaries
The following data concerning streets
X                 Proposed streets
X           X     Existing and platted streets on adjoining properties and in the proposed
                  subdivision
X           X     Right-of-way, locations and dimensions
X                 Pavement widths
X                 Approximate grades
X           X     Design engineering data for all corners and curves
X                 Typical street cross-sections
X           X     Street names and evidence that names have been approved by E-911
            X     Street maintenance agreement
X                 Evidence that the sub divider has obtained approval (DOT) approval on street
                  design and driveway permits
X           X     Utility and other easements
X           X     Natural buffers
X           X     Greenways, sidewalks or bicycle paths
X           X     Parks and recreation areas with specific type indicated
X           X     Areas to be dedicated to or reserved for public use
X           X     Areas to be used for purpose other than residential with the purpose of each
                  stated
                  The future ownership (dedication or reservation for public use to government
X           X     body, for owners to duly constituted homeowner’s association or for tenants
                  remaining in sub divider’s ownership) of recreation and open space lands
Plans for utility layouts including
X                 Sanitary sewers
X                 Storm sewers
X                 Other drainage facilities, if any
X                 Water distribution lines
X                 Natural gas lines
X                 Communications lines
X                 Electric lines
X                 Illustration of connections to existing systems, showing line sizes, the
                  location of fire hydrants, blowoffs, manholes, force mains and gate valves
X                 Profiles based upon mean sea level datum for sanitary sewers and storm sewers
Site calculations including
X           X     Acreage in total tract to be subdivided
X           X     Acreage in parks and recreation areas and other non-residential uses
X           X     Total number of parcels created
X                 Size of the smallest lot in the subdivision
X           X     Linear feet in streets
                  The name and location of any property buildings within the proposed
X           X     subdivision or within any contiguous property that is located on the U.S.
                  Department of Interior’s National Register of Historic Places
                  Sufficient engineering data to determine readily and reproduce on the ground
                  every straight or curved line, street line, right-of-way, easement line and
                  setback line, including dimensions, bearings or deflection angles, radii,
            X     central angles and tangent distance for the centerline of curved property
                  lines that are not the boundary line of curved streets. All dimensions shall
                  be measured to the nearest 1/100 of a foot and all angles to a minimum
                  angular accuracy of the nearest minute
            X     The accurate locations and descriptions of all monuments, markers and control
                  points
            X     A copy of any proposed deed restrictions is mandatory when private recreation
                  areas or common areas are established
            X     Evidence of erosion control plan approval
X                 Topographic map with contour intervals as determined by the Ordinance
                  Administrator
 
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.362  REQUIRED SUBDIVISION PLAT CERTIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Certificate of ownership and dedication.
 
The undersigned hereby certifies that the land shown here on is owned by the undersigned, and hereby freely dedicates
all rights-of-way, easements, streets, recreation areas, open spaces, common areas, utilities and other improvements to
public or private common use as noted on this plat, and further assumes full responsibility for the maintenance and
control of said improvements until they are accepted for maintenance and control by an appropriate public body or by an
incorporated neighborhood or homeowners association or similar legal entity.
 
                                                                                                                       
                           
Owner(s)                                       Date
 
   (B)   Certificate of survey and accuracy.
 

I,                                                                                                      , certify that
this plat was drawn under my supervision from (an actual survey made under my supervision) (deed description recorded
in Book                , Page              , etc.) (other); that the ratio of precision is 1:                          
                                                                           ; that the boundaries not surveyed are shown
as broken lines plotted from information found in Book                    , Page                      ; that this plat
was prepared in accordance with G.S. § 47-30, as amended. Witness my original signature, registration number and seal
this                                day of                                              , A.D. 20               .
 
                                                                                   
Surveyor
 
Seal or Stamp
 
                                                                                     
Registration Number
 
   (C)   Certificate of Review Officer.
 

I,                                                                                                , Review Officer of
Duplin County, certify that the map or plat to which this certification is affixed meets all statutory requirements for
recording.
 
                                                                                                                       
                           
Review Officer                                 Date
 
   (D)   Certificate of land use regulation and purpose of plat.
 

I,                                                                                  , certify to one of the following:
 
a.   That this survey creates a subdivision of land within the area of a county or municipality that has an ordinance
that regulates parcels of land;
b.   That this survey is located in a portion of a county or municipality that is unregulated as to an ordinance that
regulates parcels of land;
c.   Any one of the following:
1)   That this survey is of an existing parcel or parcels of land and does not create a new street or change an
existing street;
2)   That this survey is of an existing building or other structure, or natural feature, such as a watercourse; or
3)   That this survey is a control survey.
d.   That this survey is of another category, such as the recombination of existing parcels, a court-ordered survey or
other exception to the definition of subdivision;
e.   That the information available to the surveyor is such that the surveyor is unable to make a determination to the
best of the surveyor’s professional ability as to provisions contained in a) through d) above.
 
                                                                                   
Surveyor
 
Seal or Stamp
 
                                                                                   
Registration Number
 
   (E)   Certificate of approval of proposed state roads.
 
I hereby certify that these streets as installed, or as designed and guaranteed, are in accordance with the minimum
design criteria presently required by the North Carolina Department of Transportation, Division of Highways, for the
acceptance of streets onto the state system for maintenance.
 
                                                                                                                       
                           
District Engineer                                 Date
North Carolina Department of Transportation
Division of Highways
 
   (F)   Certificate of approval of proposed town roads.
 

I hereby certify that these streets as installed, or as designed and guaranteed, are in accordance with the minimum
design criteria presently required by the Town of Kenansville, for the acceptance of streets onto the town system for
maintenance.
 
                                                                                                                       
                           
Director of Public Works                              Date
Town of Kenansville
 
   (G)   Certificate of approval of on-site sewage disposal systems.
 

I hereby certify that the lot(s) on this final plat have been evaluated under the current provisions of Title 15A NCAC
18A.1900 et seq., and found that it/they has/have acceptable soils for an on-site, subsurface sewage treatment and
disposal system.
 
                                                                                                                       
                           
Duplin County Environmental Health                        Date
 
   (H)   Certificate of lots served by public water and/or sewer systems.
 

I hereby certify that the construction plans for the water system and/or sewer system have been approved for (Name of
Subdivision). The utilities have been constructed, or secured via a financial guarantee, to (Service Provider)
standards.
 
                                                                                                                       
                           
Authorizing Agent (PW Director if Town)                     Date
 
   (I)   Certificate of major subdivision approval.
 

I hereby certify that the major subdivision plat shown hereon has been found to comply with the Subdivision Regulations
of the Town of Kenansville, North Carolina, and that this plat has been approved by the Kenansville Town Board of
Commissioners for recording in the office of the Register of Deeds. This approval is valid for a period of 30 days from
the date of the Mayor’s signature.
 
                                                                                                                       
                           
Mayor, Town of Kenansville                           Date
 
   (J)   Certificate of minor subdivision approval.
 

I hereby certify that the minor subdivision plat shown hereon has been found to comply with the Town of Kenansville
Subdivision Regulations. His or her approval is valid for a period of 30 days from the date of the Ordinance
Administrator’s signature.
 
                                                                                                                       
                           
Town of Kenansville Ordinance Administrator                     Date
 
   (K)   Certificate of recombination plat approval.
 

I hereby certify that the recombination plat shown hereon has been found to comply with the Town of Kenansville
Subdivision Regulations. His or her approval is valid for a period of 30 days from the date of the Ordinance
Administrator’s signature.
 
                                                                                                                       
                           
Town of Kenansville Ordinance Administrator                     Date
 
   (L)   Certificate of exemption.
 

I hereby certify that the division of land shown and described here on is not division of land subject to the Town of
Kenansville Subdivision Regulations. No approval of this plat is required.
 
                                                                                                                       
                           
Town of Kenansville Ordinance Administrator                     Date
 
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
§ 152.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Remedies and penalties. Any of the following remedies and enforcement
powers may be used to administer and enforce this chapter following a final
notice of violation as described in §
152.099(C) of this chapter. While the town may exercise any of the following
remedies or penalties at any point following issuance of a final notice of
violation and the required correction period, the following remedies and
penalties are listed in their general order or sequence of application.
      (1)   Repeat violations. In addressing repeat violations by the same
offender over any three-year period, the town may commence the application of
remedies or penalties at the stage in the process where the previous violation
was resolved.
      (2)   Civil penalty.
         (a)   In addition to the other remedies cited in this chapter for the
enforcement of its provisions, and pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175, the standards
in this chapter may be enforced through the issuance of civil penalties by the
Ordinance Administrator.
         (b)   Subsequent citations for the same violation may be issued each
day by the Ordinance Administrator if the offender does not pay the citation
after it has been issued unless the offender has sought an appeal to the
actions of the Ordinance Administrator through an appeal of administrative
decision.
         (c)   Civil penalties shall be issued in the following amounts:
            1.   First citation: $50;
            2.   Second citation: $100; and
            3.   Third and subsequent citations: $150.
         (d)   If the offender fails to pay the civil penalty within 15 days
after having been cited, the town may recover the penalties in a civil action
in the nature of debt.
      (3)   Stop work order. Whenever a building or structure is being
constructed, demolished, renovated, altered or repaired in violation of any
applicable provision of this chapter, the Ordinance Administrator may order the
revocation of the zoning permit for such work and request a stop work order be
issued by the county’s Building Inspections Department. The stop work order
shall be in writing, directed to the person doing the work, and shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reasons for cessation and the action
(s) necessary to lawfully resume work.
      (4)   Revocation of zoning permit. The Ordinance Administrator may revoke
any zoning permit by written notification to the permit holder when violations
of this chapter have occurred. Permits may be revoked when false statements or
misrepresentations were made in securing the permit, work is being or has been
done in substantial departure from the approved application or plan, there has
been a failure to comply with the requirements of this chapter or a permit has
been mistakenly issued in violation of this chapter.
      (5)   Injunction. When a violation occurs, the Ordinance Administrator
may, either before or after the initiation of other authorized actions, apply
to the appropriate court for a mandatory or prohibitory injunction ordering the
offender to correct the unlawful condition or cease the unlawful use of the
land in question.
      (6)   Order of abatement. In addition to an injunction, the town may
apply for and the court may enter into an order of abatement as part of the
judgment in the case. An order of abatement may direct any of the following
actions:
         (a)   Buildings or other structures on the property be closed,
demolished or removed;
         (b)   Fixtures, furniture or other movable property be moved or
removed entirely;
         (c)   Improvements, alterations or repairs be made; or
         (d)   Any other action be taken that is necessary to bring the
property into compliance with this chapter.
      (7)   Equitable remedy. The town may apply to a court of law for any
appropriate equitable remedy to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
fact that other remedies are provided under general law or this chapter shall
not be used by a violator as a defense to the town’s application for equitable
relief.
      (8)   Criminal penalties. Pursuant to G.S. § 14-4, any person, firm or
corporation convicted of violating the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined an amount not to
exceed $500.
      (9)   Execution of court decisions.
         (a)   As provided in G.S. § 160A-175(e), if the violator fails or
refuses to comply with an injunction or with an order of abatement within the
time allowed by the court, he or she may be cited for contempt, and the town,
by and through the Town Attorney, may execute the order of abatement. The town
shall have a lien on the property for the cost of executing an order of
abatement in the nature of a mechanic’s and material man’s lien.
         (b)   The violator may secure cancellation of an order of abatement by
paying all costs of the proceeding and posting a bond for compliance with the
order. The bond shall be given with sureties approved by the Clerk of Superior
Court in an amount approved by the judge before whom the matter is heard and
shall be conditioned upon the defendant’s full compliance with the terms of the
order of abatement within a time fixed by the judge. Cancellation of an order
of abatement shall not suspend or cancel an injunction issued in conjunction
therewith.
      (10)   Deny or withhold permits. The Ordinance Administrator may deny or
withhold authorization to use or develop any land, structure or improvements
until an alleged violation and associated civil penalty related to such land,
use or development is corrected.
   (B)   Cumulative penalties. The remedies provided for violations of this
chapter, whether civil or criminal, shall be cumulative and in addition to any
other remedy provided by law, and may be exercised in any order.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2018)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   VARIANCES AND SPECIAL USES
      
III.   ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
TABLE I:  ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        5-14-1975   Annexation of Kenansville Contractors, Inc., land,
                     approximately 17.5 acres
                     Annexation of three tracts; approximately 7.25 acres in
-        5-14-1975   the R.L. Dunn tract, 0.74 acre of a right-of-way and
                     approximately 40 acres in Lot 4 of the Spicer lands
                     division
-        5-14-1975   Annexation of approximately 0.66 acre of county land
                     Annexation of approximately 64.5 acres of land owned by
-        5-14-1975   the County Board of Education, except 0.66 acre deeded to
                     the Board of County Commissioners
                    
 
TABLE II:  VARIANCES AND SPECIAL USES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Grants variance to allow construction of off-street
Order -  3-25-1981   parking behind the Services to the Aged Office Building on
                     Seminary Street
                    
 
TABLE III:  ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
-    8-23-  Rezones 46.049 acres on the south side of N.C. 24, from R-15 residential
     1971   to R-85 residential
-    12-6-  Amends depth from 150 feet to 250 feet in general business zones
     1971
-    5-8-   Rezones approximately four acres on the south side of N.C. 24, from R-15
     1972   residential to R-85 residential
            Rezones the following as general business: the R.V. Wells heirs’ land on
-    4-24-  Bostic Street zoned R-85 residential, the town property (water tank site)
     1974   on Bostic Street zoned R-85 residential and the W.J. Sitterson lot on
            Stokes Street zoned R-85 residential
     6-10-  Rezones 250 feet depth of property on the north side of Mallard Street,
-    1975   from Church Street westward to the town limits, from R-6 residential to
            general business
     7-11-  Rezones property bounded by Hill Street on the south, North Main Street on
-    1977   the east, the southern drive to Duplin General Hospital on the north and
            Duplin Road on the west from general business to office and institutional
-    5-7-   Rezones approximately two and one-half acres on the northern edge of
     1979   Beasley Street, from R-85 residential to office and industrial
-    5-5-   Rezones the Briarwood Hill Subdivision from R-85 to R-15 residential
     1981
     8-7-   Rezones approximately 1.49 acres on the south side of Main Street (N.C.
-    2000   11), north of Grove Presbyterian Church, from R-6 residential to Business-
            1
           
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section                     Code Section
1A-1, Rule 5                     97.02
Ch. 7A                           151.43
13-229                           151.04
14-4                             91.19
14-4(a)                          10.99
14-4(b)                          70.99
14-202.10                        152.012
14-277.2                         97.03
14-288.5                         97.03
14-415.11(c)                     32.01
14-415.23                        32.01
15A-1340.23                      10.99
20-37.5(2)                       Ch. 72, Schd. I;
                                 Ch. 72, Schd. II
20-37.6(f)                       70.99;
                                 Ch. 72, Schd. II
20-109.2                         152.012
20-161(d)                        70.99;
                                 Ch. 72, Schd. II
Ch. 47A                          152.012
Ch. 47C                          152.012
47C-1-101 et seq.                152.355
47F-1-101 et seq.                152.355
Ch. 90, Art. 5                   130.15
113A-100 et seq.                 151.04
130A-290(a)(6)                   151.05
Ch. 130A, Art. 9                 151.05
130A-290(a)(35)                  151.05
130A-290(a)(36)                  151.05
130A-313 et seq.                 51.18
131D-2.1                         152.012;
                                 152.169
131E-101(6)                      152.012
131E-102                         152.012
Ch. 143, Art. 21, Part 6         151.01
143-143.15                       151.26
Ch. 153A, Art. 6, Part 121       151.01
Ch. 153A, Art. 18, Parts 3 and 4 151.01
Ch. 160A, Art. 19                152.002
Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 2        152.357
                                 130.15;
160A-174                         152.099;
                                 152.999
                                 10.99;
160A-175                         152.099;
                                 152.999
160A-193                         91.18;
                                 152.099
160A-303                         70.99;
                                 Ch. 72, Schd. I
160A-361                         152.012;
                                 152.028
160A-362                         152.012
160A-364                         152.048;
                                 152.049
160A-381                         152.073;
                                 152.074
160A-382                         152.071
160A-383                         152.071;
                                 152.072
160A-383.1                       152.132
160A-384                         152.048;
                                 152.049
160A-384                         152.048
160A-384(a)                      152.048
160A-384(c)                      152.048
160A-385                         152.071
160A-385(a)                      152.071
                                 152.010;
160A-385.1                       152.012;
                                 152.081
160A-387                         152.028
160A-388                         152.029
160A-388(d)                      152.074
                                 152.029;
160A-388(e)                      152.073;
                                 152.074;
                                 152.080
160A-392                         152.004
160A-417                         152.010
160A-418                         152.010
160A-422                         152.010
168-21                           152.012
                                 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      1-4-1971    50.01—
                     50.10
–      8-23-1971   TSO Table III
–      11-1-1971   92.01—
                     92.08
–      12-6-1971   TSO Table III
                     50.25;
–      1-10-1972   50.26;
                     50.28
–      5-8-1972    TSO Table III
–      4-24-1974   TSO Table III
                     94.01—
–      11-4-1974   94.06;
                     94.99
–      5-14-1975   TSO Table I
–      6-10-1975   TSO Table III
–      1-6-1976    130.04
–      6-7-1976    50.10
–      7-11-1977   TSO Table III
–      7-10-1978   110.01—
                     110.06
–      9-4-1978    150.01—
                     150.04
–      5-7-1979    TSO Table III
                     93.01—
–      10-1-1979   93.08;
                     93.99
–      2-4-1980    130.16
–      3-10-1980   130.16
–      5-4-1981    111.01
–      5-5-1981    TSO Table III
–      3-5-1984    110.06
–      9-16-1985   130.03
–      8-1-1994    91.01—
                     91.04
–      9-11-1995   91.15—
                     91.19
–      12-4-1995   32.01;
                     130.15
                     90.01—
–      9-14-1998   90.03;
                     90.99
–      8-7-2000    TSO Table III
–      11-3-2003   130.01;
                     130.02
–      9-13-2004   111.01
                     51.15—
–      9-14-2004   51.32;
                     51.99
                     151.01—
                     151.11;
                     151.25—
–      6-6-2005    151.29;
                     151.40—
                     151.46;
                     151.99
                     50.40—
–      7-11-2005   50.43;
                     50.99
–      11-7-2011   97.01—
                     97.03
–      12-1-2014   110.06
                     90.01;
–      10-3-2016   96.01—
                     96.12;
                     96.99
–      11-7-2016   95.01;
                     95.99
                     152.001—
                     152.012;
                     152.025—
                     152.030;
                     152.045—
                     152.056;
                     152.070—
                     152.081;
                     152.095—
                     152.099;
                     152.110—
                     152.115;
                     152.130—
                     152.134;
                     152.145—
–      3-5-2018    152.201;
                     152.215—
                     152.221;
                     152.235—
                     152.242;
                     152.255;
                     152.270—
                     152.278;
                     152.290—
                     152.299;
                     152.310—
                     152.317;
                     152.330—
                     152.335;
                     152.350—
                     152.362;
                     152.999
                     70.01;
                     70.02;
–      6-4-2018    70.99;
                     Ch. 71;
                     Ch. 72
                     70.01;
                     70.02;
–      8-6-2018    70.99;
                     Ch. 71;
                     Ch. 72
–      11-5-2018   94.01
                     94.05;
–      5-6-2019    94.06;
                     94.99
                    
 
