KENLY, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2021 S-5 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 19-15, passed 6-8-2020; and
State legislation current through 2020 Legislative Service, Pamphlet No. 4
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street  *  Suite 310  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588  www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS
TOWN COUNCIL
MAYOR                         Bonnie Williamson
MAYOR PRO-TEM                 Keith Davis
COUNCIL MEMBER                Trinity Henderson
COUNCIL MEMBER                Janna Rogerson
COUNCIL MEMBER                Lawanda Neal
COUNCIL MEMBER                Bobby Peele
                              
TOWN OFFICIALS
                              
TOWN CLERK                    Sharon Evans
PLANNING DIRECTOR             Michael King
PARKS AND RECREATION DIRECTOR  
TOWN ATTORNEY                 Alan B. Hewett
POLICE CHIEF                  Josh Gibson
INTERIM TOWN MANAGER          Sharon Evans
UTILITIES DIRECTOR            John Pitts
FIRE CHIEF                    Paul Whitehurst
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF KENLY,
NORTH CAROLINA
BE IT ORDAINED by the Kenly Town Council:
   Section 1: The Code entitled “Town of Kenly, North Carolina Code of
Ordinances” published by American Legal Publishing Corporation consisting of
Chapter Titles I through XV, each inclusive, is adopted.
   Section 2: All ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted on or
before September 13, 2004, and not included in the Code or recognized and
continued in force by reference therein, are repealed.
   Section 3: The repeal provided for in Section 2 hereof shall not be
construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a
subsequent ordinance that is repealed by this ordinance.
   Section 4: Unless another penalty is expressly provided, every person
convicted of a violation of any provision of the Code or any ordinance, rule,
regulation, order of notice adopted or issued in pursuance thereof, shall be
punished as provided in G.S. § 14-4. Each act of violation and each day upon
which any such violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. The
penalty provided by this section, unless another penalty is expressly provided,
shall apply to the amendment of any Code section whether or not such penalty is
reenacted in the amendatory ordinance. In addition to the penalty prescribed
above, the city may pursue other remedies such as abatement of nuisances,
injunctive relief and revocation of licenses and permits.
   Section 5: Additions or amendments to the Code when passed in the form as to
indicate the intention of the Town Council to make the same part of the Code
shall be deemed to be incorporated in the Code, so that reference to the Code
includes the additions or amendments.
   Section 6: Ordinances adopted after September 13, 2004, that amend or refer
to ordinances that have been codified in the Code, shall be construed as if
they amend or refer to like provisions of the Code.
   Section 7: This ordinance shall become effective upon its adoption.
Adopted this 11th day of April, 2005.
               H.L. Hales II  /s/         
               H.L. Hales II, Mayor
ATTEST:
Sharon Evans /s/             
Sharon Evans, Town Clerk
CHARTER
PRIVATE LAWS OF NORTH CAROLINA
SESSION 1887
Chapter 92
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE TOWN OF KENLY IN JOHNSTON COUNTY.
The General Assembly of North Carolina do enact:
   SECTION 1.  That the town in Johnston County now known as Kenly, be and the
same is hereby incorporated, under the name and style of Kenly, and it shall
have the benefit of and be subject to all the provisions of law now existing in
reference to incorporated towns, not inconsistent with this act.
   SECTION 2.  That the corporate limits of the said town shall be as follows: 
one half mile square with the center of Second street in the railroad track
where it crosses the Wilson and Fayetteville Railroad, the geographical center.
Editor’s Note:
   Subsequent changes to the corporate limits through annexations are listed in
Table of Special Ordinances I.
   SECTION 3.  That the officers of said corporation shall be a mayor, three
commissioners and a town constable, and the following named persons shall fill
said offices until the first Monday in May, eighteen hundred and eighty-seven,
viz.:  mayor, L. M. Hamilton; commissioners, L. G. Broughton, James R. Raper
and John Davis; constable, A. R. Stancill.
   SECTION 4.  That there shall be an election held in said town on the first
Monday in May, eighteen hundred and eighty-seven, and every successive year
thereafter for the purpose of electing persons to hold said offices, under the
same rules and regulations as are now in force for the election or members of
the general assembly, and all persons residing within said corporation who
shall have lived in said corporation sixty days and in this state one year (and
not otherwise disfranchised) shall be entitled to vote at said election; and
said officers shall have all the rights, powers and duties and shall be subject
to all the liabilities which are mentioned in chapter sixty-two of The Code,
volume two.
   SECTION 5.  That the said commissioners shall have power to pass all by-
laws, rules and regulations for the good government of the town not
inconsistent with the laws of this state or the United States, and to levy and
collect a tax on all subjects of state taxation not to exceed one half of the
said state tax, and to impose fines for the violation of town ordinances and to
collect the same.  Also to levy and collect all such license and privilege
taxes as are mentioned in chapter sixty-two, volume two, of The Code.
   SECTION 6.  That this act shall be in force from and after its ratification.
   In the general assembly read three times, and ratified this the 7th day of
March, A. D. 1887.
Cross-reference:
   Adoption of Council-Manager form of government, see
§ 30.01
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
11.   TOWN STANDARDS AND BOUNDARIES
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administration, see Title III
   General Offenses, see Title XIII
   Town Standards and Boundaries, see
Ch. 11
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Kenly shall be
designated as the Code of Kenly, North Carolina, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule.  Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense.  However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CHARTER.  The Charter of the Town of Kenly, North Carolina.
      CODE,THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.  This  municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or
sections.
      COUNTY.  Johnston County and Wilson County, North Carolina.
      GOVERNOR.  The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY.  All words giving a joint authority to 3 or more persons
or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
persons or officers.
      MAY.  The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH.  A calendar month.
      OATH.  An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may
be substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall
be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT.  An officer,
office, employee, commission, or department of this municipality unless the
context clearly requires otherwise.
      OWNER.  Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON.  Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver.  Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY.  Every species of property except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING.  Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY.  Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY.  Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
      SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK.  Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION.  Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE.  The State of North Carolina.
      STREET.  Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge, and the approaches thereto
within the town and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER.  A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a
heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the
chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the
heading.  Not all chapters have subchapters.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT.  When applied to a building or land, shall include
any person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether
alone or with others.
      TOWN.  The Town of Kenly, North Carolina.
      TOWN COUNCIL.  The governing body of the Town of Kenly, North Carolina.
      WRITTEN.  Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR.  A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR.  Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants.  When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses.  Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term.  A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in 1 section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this town exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published.  No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this town for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12  REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last.  If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.  All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15  EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.  Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect
from their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section, or subsection, or any portion thereof, the
repealed portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted
pages. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the
case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent ordinances
numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code by the town.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in language substantially similar to the following: “Section              
of the Code of Ordinances, Town of Kenly, North Carolina, is hereby amended as
follows....” The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, Town of Kenly, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as
follows:....” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, articles, chapters, or provisions desired to be repealed
must be specifically repealed by section, article, or chapter number, as the
case may be.
§ 10.18  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section.  Example:  (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Am. Ord. 25, passed
1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.  Example:  (G.S. §
160A-11)  (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985).
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information.  Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
      For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see G.S. §§
139-1 et seq.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of any
section or subsection of this code of ordinances for which no other penalty is
provided, or failing or neglecting or refusing to comply with same, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to
exceed $50 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, and each day that any of the
provisions of this code of ordinances are violated shall constitute a separate
offense.
(G.S. § 14-4(a))
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
CHAPTER 11:  TOWN STANDARDS AND BOUNDARIES
Section
   
11.01   Boundaries; extraterritorial jurisdiction
§ 11.01  BOUNDARIES; EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   The boundaries of the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Town of Kenly,
according to and as authorized by G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 19, extend to distances
not exceeding 1 mile from the corporate limits of the Town of Kenly as shown on
a map titled Official Extraterritorial Boundary Map of the Town of Kenly, North
Carolina, the map being made an integral part of this section.
(Ord. 64, passed 5-13-1980)
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   CHARTER AMENDMENTS
         
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
         
32.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
         
33.   TAXATION
         
34.   PERSONNEL
         
35.   SURPLUS PROPERTY
CHAPTER 30:  CHARTER AMENDMENTS
Section
   
30.01   Adoption of council-manager form of government
§ 30.01  ADOPTION OF COUNCIL-MANAGER FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. §§ 160A-101 and 160A-102, the Charter of the Town of
Kenly as set forth in Chapter 92 of the 1887 Session Laws of North Carolina, as
amended, is hereby further amended to provide that the town shall operate under
the Council-Manager form of government in accordance with G.S. Ch. 160A, Art.
7, Part 2, and any charter provisions not in conflict therewith.
   (B)   Subject to any referendum petitioned for and conducted pursuant to
G.S. § 160A-103, this section shall be in full force and effect only if
approved by a vote of the people pursuant to G.S. § 160A-102 to be held on 11-
8-1983.
(Ord. 73, passed - -)
CHAPTER 31:  TOWN OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Use of town equipment, vehicles; town employees on private property
   
31.02   Failure of Council Members to attend meetings
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01  USE OF TOWN EQUIPMENT, VEHICLES; TOWN EMPLOYEES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of town policy for any employee to direct or
instruct other town employees to work in any area outside of town rights-of-way
or easements and rights-of-way owned by or maintained by the State of North
Carolina or the United States Government.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of town policy for any employee to direct or
instruct another town employee to use town equipment to work in any area
outside of town rights-of-way or easements and rights-of-way owned by or
maintained by the State of North Carolina or the United States Government.
   (C)   It shall be a violation of town policy for any employee to use a town
vehicle to transport himself or herself or people who may assist him or her, or
equipment, and/or materials to work on non-town related work projects during
regular work hours or off-work hours.
   (D)   Any and all employees who violate this section shall receive the
following disciplinary actions.
      (1)   Violation 1.  Any employee found to be in violation of divisions
(A), (B), or (C) above for the first offense shall receive 1 day suspended
leave without pay.
      (2)   Violation 2.  Any employee found to be in violation of divisions
(A), (B), or (C) above for the second offense shall receive 1 week suspended
leave without pay.
      (3)   Violation 3.  Any employee found to be in violation of divisions
(A), (B), or (C) above for the third offense shall be terminated from town
employment.
   (E)   The Town Manager shall be responsible for enforcing this section.
   (F)   If an emergency life threatening incident occurs on private property,
town employees and town equipment may be authorized for use by the Town
Manager.  The Town Manager shall report the incidents to the Town Council
during the first Town Council meeting after the occurrence of the incident.
   (G)   This section shall be effective 11-10-1987.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-9-1987)
§ 31.02  FAILURE OF COUNCIL MEMBERS TO ATTEND MEETINGS.
   If any Council Member shall fail to attend a regular meeting of the Town
Council, or any special meeting of which he or she shall have had notice of at
least 5 days, unless prevented by the cause as shall be satisfactory to the
Town Council, he or she shall forfeit a sum equivalent to 1/12 of his or her
annual compensation for serving as Council Member.
(Ord. 24, passed 6-21-1971)
CHAPTER 32:  TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Committees
   
32.01   Recreation Committee
   
32.02   Tourism Committee
   
32.03   Appearance Committee
Planning Board
   
32.15   Establishment
   
32.16   Membership, terms, and vacancies
   
32.17   Organization, rules, meetings, and records
   
32.18   Compensation
   
32.19   Powers and duties
   
32.20   Annual report and budget request
Library Advisory Board
   
32.30   Establishment; purpose
   
32.31   Meetings
   
32.32   Election of officers
   
32.33   Duties
   
32.34   Standing committees
   
32.35   Library Board
   
32.36   Amendments
   
32.37   Compliance with Town Council rules
COMMITTEES
§ 32.01  RECREATION COMMITTEE.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Recreation Committee composed of 5 members;
3 members must reside within the Kenly town limits and 2 may reside in the Town
of Kenly ETJ.
(Ord. 77, passed 5-21-1984; Am. Ord. passed 3-  -1985; Am. Ord. 14-02, passed
4-14-2014)
   (B)   The Recreation Committee shall serve as the advisory body for the
Department of Recreation and the Town of Kenly.  The Committee shall suggest
policies to the Department, the Manager, and the Town Council, within its
powers and responsibilities as stated in this section.  The Committee shall
consult with and advise the Department, the Manager, and the Town Council in
matters affecting recreation policies, program, personnel, finances, and the
acquisition and disposal of lands and properties related to the total community
recreation program, and to its long-range, projected program for recreation.
   (C)   Each member of the Committee shall be appointed by the Town Council of
Kenly.
   (D)   A member of the Town Council may be designated as an ex officio member
of the Committee.  The ex officio member will not have a vote on items coming
before the Recreation Committee.
   (E)   Each member shall be appointed for a 3-year term.  Initial
appointments shall be arranged so that 1/3 of the terms will expire each year,
except for the representative from the Town Council of the Town of Kenly who
shall serve on the Recreation Committee concurrent with his or her term of
office on the Town Council.
   (F)   Meetings shall be held on a monthly basis unless when determined
otherwise by the Committee.  The Chairperson of the Committee or, in his or her
absence, the Vice-Chairperson, may call a special meeting of the Committee at
any time by giving each member 24-hour notice.  Special meetings will be
scheduled upon request by 4 or more Committee members.  A quorum of the
Committee shall be in attendance before action of an official nature can be
taken.  A quorum is at least 1 or more than the number absent of the appointed
members.
   (G)   An appointed member who misses more than 3 consecutive regular
meetings loses his or her status as a member of the Committee until reappointed
or replaced by the Town Council of Kenly.  Absences due to sickness, death, or
other emergencies of like nature shall be regarded as approved absences and
shall not affect the member’s status on the Committee, except that in the event
of a long illness, or other cause for prolonged absence, the member may be
replaced.
   (H)   Committee members shall serve without monetary compensation.
   (I)   There shall be a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson of the Committee. 
An annual election of the Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson shall be held  by
the Committee members and shall occur at the regular monthly meeting in July. 
Officers shall serve for 1 year from election, with eligibility for re-
election.  New officers shall take office at the subsequent regular meeting in
August.  In the event an officer’s appointment to the Committee is terminated,
a replacement to this office shall be elected by the Committee from its
membership at the meeting following the termination.  The Director of
Recreation shall serve as Secretary of the Committee.
   (J)   (1)   The Committee Chairperson shall preside at all meetings and sign
all documents relative to action taken by the Committee.  The Chairperson shall
appoint all subcommittees, including a nominating committee composed of 2
Committee members.  A nominating committee shall be appointed at least 30 days
prior to the July meeting.
      (2)   When the Chairperson is absent, the Vice-Chairperson shall perform
the duties of the Chairperson.  When both the Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson
are absent, a temporary Chairperson shall be selected by those members who are
present.
      (3)   The Director of Recreation shall serve as Secretary to the
Committee.  He or she may delegate all or part of these duties to another
Department employee with approval of the Committee, but shall hold the office
of Secretary and shall be held responsible for the satisfactory accomplishment
of the secretarial duties.  The Secretary shall mail to all members copies of
official reports and the official minutes of all regular and special meetings
prior to the next scheduled meetings.
   (K)   (1)   The executive committee shall consist of the Chairperson, Vice-
Chairperson, Secretary (Director), and the representatives from the Town
Council of the Town of Kenly.
      (2)   The Committee Chairperson is authorized to appoint the committees
as, in the opinion of the Committee, are needed.  Temporary and project
committees shall be appointed as needed.
   (L)   Operational policies and procedures may be incorporated and approved
by the Committee in line with this section and the policies of the unit.
(Ord. 77, passed 5-21-1984)
§ 32.02  TOURISM COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby established a Kenly Tourism Committee
in the Town of Kenly hereby known as the Tourism Committee.
   (B)   Purpose. The Tourism Committee shall serve as an advisory body to the
Johnston County Visitors Bureau, which is legislated to expend 2% occupancy tax
funds on behalf of the Town of Kenly.
   (C)   Offices. The principal office of the Committee shall be in the County
of Johnston, Town of Kenly.
   (D)   Committee members.
      (1)   Composition. The Committee shall consist of not less than 9
members. Each member shall be appointed by the Town Council. The following
positions or representatives of the following interests shall comprise the
Tourism Committee:
         (a)   Kenly Town Manager (or designee);
         (b)   Johnston County Tourism Authority Executive Director (or
designee);
         (c)   Kenly Chamber of Commerce Chairman (or designee); and
         (d)   Six at-large Kenly business representatives.
      (2)   Term of office. The 10 members of the Committee as designated above
shall serve for 3-year terms except those members appointed to the initial
Committee, who shall serve terms as hereinafter set out in order to establish a
system of staggered terms. One member shall serve a 1-year term; 3 shall serve
a 2-year term; and 2 shall serve a 3-year term. The Town Manager, the Executive
Director of the Johnston County Tourism Authority (or their designee) and the
Kenly Chamber of Commerce Chairman shall be appointed as permanent voting
members. As the terms of the initial members of the Committee shall expire,
their successors shall be appointed for 3-year terms. Each member of the
Committee shall serve until his successor is duly appointed as above provided.
Terms shall be effective July 1 of each year.
      (3)   Resignation. Any appointed member may resign at any time by giving
written notice of such resignation to the Town Council.
      (4)   Vacancies. Any vacancy in the Committee occurring during the year,
may be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the appointment of the
Town Council. Any Committee member so appointed shall serve the unexpired term
of a Committee member he or she is replacing.
      (5)   Regular meetings. The regular meeting of the Committee shall be
held at the Town Hall on the second Thursday of each odd numbered month for the
purpose of any business.
      (6)   Special meetings. Special meetings of the Committee may be called
by the Chairman.
      (7)   Notice of meetings. Written or printed notice stating the time and
place of the meeting shall be delivered not less than 2 nor more than 10 days
before the date thereof, either personally or by mail, at the direction of the
Chairman to each committee member. In the case of a special meeting, the notice
of meeting shall specifically state the purpose or purposes for which the
meeting is called. The "N.C. Open Meetings Law" G.S. § 143-318.10 applies to
this committee.
      (8)   Chairman. At all meetings of the Committee the Chairman, or Vice
Chairman, or in their absence a Chairman chosen by the committee members
present, shall preside.
      (9)   Quorum. At any meeting of the Committee the presence of 50% + 1 of
the Committee members in person shall be necessary to constitute a quorum for
all purposes except as otherwise provided by law, and the act of a majority of
the Committee members present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall
be the act of the full Committee. At any meeting at which a quorum shall be
present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the
meeting as originally notified.
      (10)   Compensation. Committee members shall not receive any stated
salary for their services as such, but by approval of the Town Manager, actual
expenses of service may be reimbursed.
      (11)   Removal of Committee members or officers. Any Committee member or
officer may be removed from office by the affirmative vote of a majority of the
Town Council, at any regular or special meeting called for that purpose, for
conduct detrimental to the interests of the Committee.
      (12)   Powers. The Kenly Tourism Committee is an advisory body to the
Johnston County Visitors Bureau, which is legislated to expend 2% occupancy tax
funds on behalf of the town. The committee shall:
         (a)   Make recommendations to the Johnston County Visitors Bureau on
marketing materials, advertising programs, interstate billboard campaigns, and
other marketing efforts related to the town;
         (b)   Advise the Johnston County Visitors Bureau and Kenly Town
Council on other marketing-related issues as needed.
   (E)   Officers.
      (1)   Number. The officers of the Committee shall consist of a Chairman
and a Vice Chairman.
      (2)   Election, term of office, and qualifications. The officers shall be
elected annually at the first meeting of each calendar year by the members of
the Committee from among their number.
      (3)   Vacancies. In case any office of the Committee becomes vacant by
death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, or any other cause, the
majority of the Committee then in office, may elect an officer to fill such
vacancy, and the officer so elected shall hold office and serve until the next
annual election of the officers and until the election and qualification of his
or her successor.
      (4)   Chairman. The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the
Committee. He shall have and exercise general charge and supervision of the
affairs of the Committee and shall do and perform such other duties as may be
assigned to him by the Committee.
      (5)   Vice Chairman. The Vice Chairman shall in the absence or disability
of the Chairman, perform the duties and exercise the powers of that office.
      (6)   Removal.
         (a)   Any officer may be removed from office by the affirmative vote
of two-thirds of all the Committee members at any regular or special meeting
called for that purpose, for nonfeasance, malfeasance, or misfeasance, or
conduct detrimental to the interests of the Committee, or for refusal to render
reasonable assistance in carrying out its purposes.
         (b)   Any officer proposed to be removed shall be entitled to at least
5 days' notice in writing by mail of the meeting of the Committee at which such
removal is to be voted upon and shall be entitled to appear before and be heard
by the Committee at such meeting.
   (F)   Fiscal year.  The fiscal year of the Committee shall begin July 1.
   (G)   Budget.  The Committee will operate under such budget, if any, as may
from time to time be established by the annual budget ordinance of the Town of
Kenly, but an expenditure therefrom shall be made only upon approval of the
Town Manager and in accordance with ordinance and statutory requirements.
(Ord. 11-4, passed 5-9-2011; Am. Ord. 15-4, passed 6-8-2015)
§ 32.03  APPEARANCE COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Establishment; qualifications. An Appearance Committee is hereby
established consisting of 5 members who shall be residents of the
municipality's area of planning and zoning jurisdiction at the time of
appointment and 1 ex officio member who shall be a member of the Town Council.
The ex officio member shall not be a voting member. The Town Council may invite
individuals who have demonstrated special training or experience in a design
field, such as architecture, landscape design, horticulture, city planning or a
closely related field to join the Committee in their discussions and duties, it
is not the intent of this section to create an appearance commission governed
by GS § 160A-451, Part 7.
   (B)   Tenure. Members of the Appearance Committee shall be appointed to
serve terms of 3 years, and until their respective successors have been
appointed and qualified. The terms of the original members may be staggered so
that all terms do not expire simultaneously. Vacancies shall be filled for the
unexpired term only. Terms of office begin on July 1.
   (C)   Officers. The Appearance Committee shall elect one member to serve as
Chairman and preside over its meetings, and shall create and fill other such
offices and committees as it may deem necessary. The term of the Chairman and
other offices shall be 1 year, with eligibility for reelection to a second
term.
   (D)   Duties of the committee. The Committee, at the direction of the Town
Council, is authorized and empowered to undertake such actions reasonably
necessary to the discharge and conduct of its duties and responsibilities
including, but not limited to:
      (1)   To initiate, promote, and assist the Town Council in the
implementation of programs of general community beautification in the Kenly
community;
      (2)   To review and make recommendations to the Town Council regarding
the appropriateness of improvement to public facilities, including buildings,
landscapes, anal signs;
      (3)   To provide leadership and guidance to the Town Council in matters
of community design and appearance to individuals and public gnd private
agencies and organizations, and to develop programs to recognize those
individuals and organizations making improvements to community appearance;
      (4)   To serve as a participating member of federal, state, and local
organizations whose programs bear on community appearance;
      (5)   To prepare for the Town Council both general and specific plans for
the improved appearance of the entire community or any portion thereof,
including private as well as public property. Such plans shall set forth
desirable standards and goals for the aesthetic enhancement of the community or
any portion thereof, including public ways and areas, open spaces, public and
private buildings and projects;
      (6)   To formulate and recommend to the Planning Board and the Town
Council the adoption or amendment of any ordinance that may affect the
appearance of the community.
   (E)   Meetings. The Committee shall establish a regular meeting schedule,
and shall meet at least quarterly and more often as it shall determine and
require. All meetings of the Committee shall be open to the public, and
reasonable notice of the time and place thereof shall be given to the public.
The Committee shall keep a record of its meetings, including attendance of its
members, its resolutions, findings, recommendations and actions.
   (F)   Attendance at meetings. Any member of the Appearance Committee who
misses more than 3 consecutive meetings, or more than half the regular meetings
in a calendar year, shall constitute grounds for the loss of status as a member
of the Committee, and may be replaced by the Town Council as appropriate.
Absence due to sickness, death, or other emergency of like nature shall be
recognized as an excused absence, and shall not affect the member's status on
the Committee, except that in the event of a long illness or other such cause
for prolonged absence, the member shall be replaced.
   (G)   Quorum. A quorum of the Committee, necessary to take any official
action shall consist of 3 members.
   (H)   Fiscal year. The fiscal year of the Committee shall begin July 1.
   (I)   Budget. The Committee will operate under such budget, if any, as might
from time to time be established by the annual budget ordinance of the Town of
Kenly, but an expenditure therefrom shall be made only upon approval of the
Town Manager and in accordance with ordinance and statutory requirements.
(Ord. 16-08, passed 8-8-2016)
PLANNING BOARD
§ 32.15  ESTABLISHMENT.
   There shall be a Town Planning Board for the Town of Kenly, North Carolina,
established under the authority of the General Statutes of North Carolina.
(Ord. 63, passed 5-13-1980)
§ 32.16  MEMBERSHIP, TERMS, AND VACANCIES.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall consist of 1 ex officio member who shall be
the member of the Town Council in charge of planning, 4 members who shall be
citizens living within the corporate limits of the Town of Kenly, 1 member who
shall be a resident of Johnston County living within the area of Kenly's
extraterritorial jurisdiction, and 1 member who shall be a resident of Wilson
County living within the area of Kenly's extraterritorial jurisdiction, for a
total of 7 members.
   (B)   The 4 non-ex officio members residing within the Town of Kenly shall
be appointed by the Town Council.  The member residing in Johnston County
within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Town of Kenly shall be
appointed by the Board of County Commissioners of Johnston County, upon receipt
of a resolution from the Town Council requesting that the appointments be
made.  The member residing in Wilson County within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the Town of Kenly shall be appointed by the Board of
Commissioners of Wilson County, upon receipt of a resolution from the Town
Council requesting that the appointment be made.  In the event that the
appropriate Board of County Commissioners fails to make the appointments
requested within 90 days of receipt of the resolution, the Town Council shall
make the appointments.
   (C)   The initial appointments shall be made according to the following
terms.
      (1)   In-town members.
         (a)   One member for 1 year;
         (b)   One member for 2 years; and
         (c)   Two members for 3 years.
      (2)   Extraterritorial members.
         (a)   One member from Johnston County for 1 year; and
         (b)   One member from Wilson County for 1 year.
   (D)   Their successors shall be appointed for terms of 3 years.  Terms shall
expire on the thirtieth day of June.  Members shall serve until the expiration
of their terms or until their successors are appointed, whichever is later.
   (E)   Vacancies occurring for reasons other than the expiration of terms
shall be filled for the period of the unexpired term by the legislative body
responsible for the original appointment.
   (F)   Faithful attendance at the meetings of the Planning Board is
considered a prerequisite for the maintenance of membership on the Board. 
Unexcused absence from 3 consecutive meetings shall be deemed adequate reason
for termination of membership on the Planning Board by the Town Council.
(Ord. 63, passed 5-13-1980)
§ 32.17  ORGANIZATION, RULES, MEETINGS, AND RECORDS.
   The Planning Board shall elect a Chairperson and may create and fill the
other offices as it may deem necessary.  The ex officio member shall not be
eligible to be an officer of the Planning Board.  The term of officers shall be
1 year or until successors shall have been elected and installed, with
eligibility for reelection.  Vacancies in officers' positions prior to
expiration of terms shall be filled for the period of the unexpired term by the
Planning Board.  The Board shall adopt rules for transaction of its business
and shall keep a record of its members’ attendance and of its resolutions,
discussions, findings, and recommendations, which record shall be a public
record.  The Board shall hold at least 1 meeting monthly unless there is no
business to be discussed or acted upon, and all of its meetings shall be in
accordance with G.S. Ch. 160A.  A quorum shall consist of 4 members for the
purpose of taking any official action required by §§ 32.15 et seq.  All members
of the Board, including the ex officio member, shall have voting power on all
matters of business.  However, any member who is a party at interest to matters
under consideration by the Board shall declare the interest prior to a vote of
the Board on the question, and shall abstain from voting on the question.  This
provision shall not prohibit the members from participation in discussions of
the Board on the matters prior to a vote.
(Ord. 63, passed 5-13-1980)
§ 32.18  COMPENSATION.
   All members of the Planning Board shall serve without compensation.  Members
or employees of the Planning Board, when duly authorized by the Planning Board,
may attend planning conferences or meetings of planning institutes or hearings
upon pending planning legislation; and the Planning Board may, by formal and
affirmative vote, pay the reasonable traveling expenses incidental to the
attendance, within the Planning Board's budget and concurrence of the Town
Council.
(Ord. 63, passed 5-13-1980)
§ 32.19  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the function and duty of the Planning Board to make
comprehensive surveys and studies of existing conditions and probable future
development and prepare the plans for physical, social, and economic
development as will best promote the public health, safety, morals,
conveniences, or the general welfare as well as efficiency and economy in the
development of the Town of Kenly.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall have the powers and duties given it by the
General Statutes of North Carolina and the Town Council, including the power
to:
      (1)   Make studies of the area within its jurisdiction and surrounding
areas;
      (2)   Determine objectives to be sought in the development of the study
area;
      (3)   Prepare and adopt plans for achieving objectives;
      (4)   Develop and recommend policies, ordinances, administrative
procedures, and other means for carrying out plans in a coordinated and
efficient manner;
      (5)   Advise the legislative body concerning the use and amendment of
means for carrying out plans;
      (6)   Exercise any functions in the administration and enforcement of
various means for carrying out plans that the Town Council may direct;
      (7)   Perform any other related duties that the Town Council may direct;
      (8)   Accept, receive, and disburse in furtherance of its functions any
funds, grants, and services made available by the federal government and its
agencies, the state government and its agencies, any local government and its
agencies, and any private and civic sources, with concurrence of the Town
Council; the Planning Board, with concurrence of the Town Council, may enter
into and carry out contracts with the state and federal government or any
agencies thereof under which financial or other planning assistance is made
available to the municipality and may agree to and comply with any reasonable
conditions that are imposed upon the assistance;
      (9)   Enter into and carry out contracts, with the concurrence of the
Town Council, with any other city, county, or regional council or planning
agency under which technical planning assistance is furnished; and, with the
concurrence of the Town Council, may enter into and carry out contracts with
any other city, county, or regional planning agency under which it agrees to
pay the other local government or planning agency for technical planning
assistance;
      (10)   Conduct the public hearings as may be required to obtain
information necessary for the drafting, establishment, maintenance of a
development plan for the Town of Kenly; and
      (11)   Promote public interest in and an understanding of its
recommendations, and to that end it may publish and distribute copies of its
recommendations and may employ the other means of publicity and education as it
may deem necessary.
   (C)   The Planning Board shall have no power to incur any debt or obligation
of the Town of Kenly nor shall it have any power to make any expenditure of
funds of the Town of Kenly unless the funds are specifically provided for in
the budget of the Town of Kenly and appropriation made for the purposes by the
Town Council, or unless the incurring of the other obligation is otherwise
approved by the Town Council.
(Ord. 63, passed 5-13-1980)
§ 32.20  ANNUAL REPORT AND BUDGET REQUEST.
   The Planning Board shall, annually, submit to the Town Council a written
report of its activities, an analysis of the expenditures to date for the
current fiscal year, and its requested budget of funds needed for operation
during the ensuing fiscal year.  The Planning Board is authorized to appoint
the committees and to authorize the expenditures within its approved budget as
it may see fit, subject to limitations of funds provided for the Planning Board
by the Town Council.
(Ord. 63, passed 5-13-1980)
LIBRARY ADVISORY BOARD
§ 32.30  ESTABLISHMENT; PURPOSE.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby established a Library Advisory Board in
the Town of Kenly hereby known as the Library Board.
   (B)   Purpose. The Library Board shall serve as an advisory body for the
Library Department and the town. The Board shall serve as a liaison between the
Library Department, Town Manager, Town Council, and citizens of the community.
The Board shall consult with and advise the Library Department, Town Manager
and Town Council in matters affecting library policies, programs, personnel,
finances, and related issues.
(Ord. 11-2, passed 3-14-2011)
§ 32.31  MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Library Board shall be held at 7:00 pm on the
first Tuesday of each month and shall be held in the library or at some other
place designated by the committee.
   (B)   Special meetings may be called by the Chairman or upon written
requests from a majority of the committee members.
   (C)   A majority of the committee members constitutes a quorum.
   (D)   The order of business at regular meetings shall be as follows:
      (1)   Call to order.
      (2)   Reading of minutes of the previous meeting.
      (3)   Approval of the minutes.
      (4)   Reports by Librarian, Committee Chairman and special guests.
      (5)   Special reports.
      (6)   Unfinished business.
      (7)   New business.
      (8)   Adjournment.
   (E)   The absence of any member from 3 consecutive regular meetings except
when such absence is made necessary by sickness or other similar causes and
ruled as emergency in nature, will declare vacant the seat of such member, in
which event the vacancy thus created shall be filled by the Town Council. The
Town Council may request the Board to recommend a person to consider filling
the vacancy on the Board.
(Ord. 11-2, passed 3-14-2011)
§ 32.32  ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   The election of officers for the ensuing year, a Chairman and a Vice-
Chairman, and secretary shall take place at the regular meeting in June of each
year. A nominating committee of 3 members shall be appointed by the Chairman.
At the May meeting (or before) they shall bring in the nominees for these
offices.
   (B)   The new officers shall take office at the regular July meeting each
year.
(Ord. 11-2, passed 3-14-2011)
§ 32.33  DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Chairman to preside at all meetings and to
sign official papers.
   (B)   The Vice-Chairman shall perform duties of the Chairman in the absence
of the Chairman.
   (C)   The Board's secretary shall keep a true and accurate account of all
proceedings of the Board meetings; issue notices of all regular meetings and on
the Chairman's authorization of all special meetings; have custody of the
minutes and the other records of the Board; and notify the Town Council of any
vacancy on the Board.
   (D)   The Library Board shall perform the duties outlined by the Town
Council and these By-Laws.
(Ord. 11-2, passed 3-14-2011)
§ 32.34  STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Standing committees shall be appointed by the Chairman at the regular
July meeting of each year. Vacancies on the standing committees shall be filled
by the Chairman at any regular meeting.
   (B)   Standing Committee(s) is/are as follows: Nominating Committee (3
members). This standing committee will present the slate of officers to be
acted upon at the regular meeting in July.
   (C)   Special standing committees may be appointed for such purposes as
deemed necessary by the Chairman.
(Ord. 11-2, passed 3-14-2011)
§ 32.35  LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   The Library Board shall consist of 7 members and shall be appointed by
the Town Council. The term of office shall be for 3 years, and a member shall
be eligible for reappointment. Terms shall expire on June 30. A Town Council
member shall serve as ex-officio member and shall be notified of all regular
and special meetings.
   (B)   Some of the basic functions of the Library Board are as follows (but
not limited to):
      (1)   To make studies of the Town of Kenly Library.
      (2)   To determine objectives to be sought in the development of the
study areas.
      (3)   To prepare and recommend plans for achieving objectives.
      (4)   To develop and recommend policies, ordinances, administrative
procedures and other items necessary to carry out plans in a coordinated,
effective and efficient manner.
      (5)   To make recommendations to the Town Council and Town Manager on the
overall operation of the Kenly Public Library.
      (6)   To perform studies requested by the Town Council.
      (7)   To recommend and advise on the acceptance of any grant, funds or
services made available by the State Government and its agencies, the Federal
Government and its agencies, or any other agency.
      (8)   To conduct public input sessions as required to gather information
necessary for the drafting, establishment and maintenance of the plans,
policies and other items necessary for the best overall plan for the Town of
Kenly Public Library.
      (9)   To assist in developing and maintaining cooperate arrangements with
Johnston and Wilson Counties.
      (10)   To promote public interest in and an understanding of its
recommendations and to that end it may publish and distribute copies of its
recommendations and may employ such other means of publicity and education as
it may deem necessary.
(Ord. 11-2, passed 3-14-2011)
§ 32.36  AMENDMENTS.
   All amendments to these By-Laws must be proposed in writing in 1 meeting and
acted upon at the next regular monthly meeting.
(Ord. 11-2, passed 3-14-2011)
§ 32.37  COMPLIANCE WITH TOWN COUNCIL RULES.
   All actions and responsibilities of the Library Board shall be governed by
and be in compliance with the Town Council and its rules, regulations and
ordinances.
(Ord. 11-2, passed 3-14-2011)
CHAPTER 33:  TAXATION
Section
   
33.01   Tax on gross receipts derived from retail short-term lease or rental of
vehicles
§ 33.01  TAX ON GROSS RECEIPTS DERIVED FROM RETAIL SHORT-TERM LEASE OR RENTAL
OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CUSTOMER.  Any person that leases or rents a vehicle on a short-term
lease or rental basis.
      GENERAL STATUTES.  The North Carolina General Statutes and any reference
to a particular section thereof shall include the same as may be from time to
time amended, modified, supplemented, revised, or superseded.
      GROSS RECEIPTS.  The amount that is or would be reported as gross
receipts on a business's state income tax return, or on the federal income tax
return filed with the state income tax return if the state return does not
separately state gross receipts for the most recently completed tax year. 
Taxes collected hereunder are not subject to the tax herein imposed and are not
included in gross receipts.
      LEASE OR RENTAL.  A transfer, possession, or control of tangible personal
property for a fixed or indeterminate term for consideration.  The term does
not include any of the transfers or transactions excluded by G.S. § 105-164.3
(17)a.
      LONG-TERM LEASE OR RENTAL.  A lease or rental made under a written
agreement to lease or rent property to the same person for a period of at least
365 continuous days.
(G.S. § 105-187.1(3))
      PERSON.  Any individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary, corporation,
unincorporated association, partnership, sole proprietorship, company, firm, or
other legal entity.
      SHORT-TERM LEASE OR RENTAL.  Any lease or rental of a vehicle that is not
a long-term lease or rental.
(G.S. §§ 160A-215.1(e)(1) and 105-187.1(7))
      TAX COLLECTOR.  The individual appointed by the Town Council, pursuant to
G.S. § 105-349 (the provisions of the municipal charter), to collect taxes on
behalf of the town, and any other person authorized to carry out the duties and
functions of the individual.
      TAXPAYER.  Any person liable for the taxes imposed by this section.
      VEHICLE.  Any of the following:
         (a)   A motor vehicle of the private passenger type, including a
passenger van, minivan, or sport utility vehicle;
         (b)   A motor vehicle of the cargo type, including a cargo van, pickup
truck, or truck with a gross vehicle weight of 26,000 pounds or less used
predominantly in the transportation of property for other than commercial
freight, and that does not require the operator to possess a commercial drivers
license; and/or
         (c)   A trailer or semitrailer with a gross vehicle weight of 6,000
pounds or less.
(G.S. § 160A-215.1(e)(2))
   (B)   Levy of tax.  A tax is hereby imposed and levied in an amount equal to
1.5% of the gross receipts derived from the short-term lease or rental of
vehicles at retail to the general public.  This tax on gross receipts is in
addition to the privilege taxes authorized by G.S. § 160A-211.
   (C)   Collection of the tax.  Every person engaged in the business of the
short-term lease or rental of vehicles at retail to the general public shall
collect at the time of the lease or rental the tax herein levied, place the tax
so collected in a segregated account, and thereafter remit the tax to the Tax
Collector in accordance with the provisions of this section.  The taxpayer
shall include a provision in each retail short-term lease or rental agreement
stating that the percentage amount enacted by this section of the total lease
or rental price, excluding sales tax, is being charged as a tax on gross
receipts.  The amount of the tax shall be stated separately from the lease or
rental and shown separately on the taxpayer's records.  The tax shall be paid
by the customer to the taxpayer as trustee for and on account of the town.  The
taxpayer shall be liable for the collection thereof and for its payment to the
Tax Collector, and the taxpayer's failure to charge or to collect the tax from
the customer shall not affect the liability.
   (D)   Report and payment of tax.  Taxes levied under this section are due
and payable when a return is required to be filed.  Every taxpayer shall,
within the time specified, submit a return to the Tax Collector on the form
prescribed by the Tax Collector.  A return must be signed by the taxpayer or
the taxpayer's agent.  Returns of taxpayers are due to the Tax Collector each
month on or before the fifteenth day of the month following the month in which
the tax accrues.  As provided in G.S. § 160A-208.1, a return shall not be
considered a public record and information contained in a return may be
disclosed only in accordance therewith.
   (E)   Taxpayer to keep records.  The taxpayer shall keep and preserve
suitable records of the gross receipts received by the taxpayer in the conduct
of business and the other books or accounts as may be necessary to determine
the amount of the tax for which the taxpayer is liable under the provisions of
this section.  It shall be the duty of the taxpayer to keep and preserve for a
period of 3 years all the records of gross receipts and other books and
accounts described.  All records, books, and accounts herein described shall be
open for examination at all reasonable hours during the day by the Tax
Collector or his or her duly authorized agent.
   (F)   Tax Collector to provide forms.  The Tax Collector shall design,
prepare, print, and make available to all taxpayers operating within the
municipal boundaries of the town forms and instructions for filing returns to
insure a full collection of and an accounting for taxes due.  The failure of
any taxpayer to obtain or receive forms shall not relieve the taxpayer from the
payment of the tax at the time and in the manner provided.
   (G)   Situs.  The transaction giving rise to the tax herein levied shall be
deemed to have occurred at the location of the entity from which the customer
takes delivery of the vehicle.
(G.S. § 160A-215.1(b))
   (H)   Penalties and remedies.  The provisions with respect to remedies and
penalties applicable to G.S. Chapter 105, Subchapter VIII, as contained in G.S.
Chapter 105, Subchapter 1, Article 5 and Article 9 thereof, shall be applicable
in like manner to the tax authorized to be levied and collected under this
section, to the extent that the same are not inconsistent with the provisions
hereof.  The Town Council may exercise any power the Secretary of Revenue may
exercise in collecting sales and use taxes.
(G.S. § 160A-215.1(f))
   (I)   Administration.  In addition to the provisions herein, the levy and
collection of the taxes herein imposed shall be otherwise administered in the
same manner as the sales and use tax as provided in G.S. § 105-164.4(a)(2).
(G.S. § 160A-215.1(d))
   (J)   Authority.  This section is enacted pursuant to the provisions of G.S.
§ 160A-215.1.
   (K)   Effective date.  This section and the taxes thereby levied and imposed
shall become effective 7-1-2000.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2000) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 34:  PERSONNEL
Section
   
34.01   Adoption by reference
§ 34.01  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s personnel provisions are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 13, passed 2-6-1961; Am. Ord. passed 3-6-1978; Am. Ord. passed 5-13-2002;
Am. Ord. 10-0, passed 4-14-2010; Am. Ord. 11-10, passed 7-11-2011)
CHAPTER 35:  SURPLUS PROPERTY
Section
Disposing of Surplus Personal Property Valued at less than $30,000
   
35.01   Library
   
35.02   Public works
   
35.03   Parks and recreation
   
35.04   Police
DISPOSING OF SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY
VALUED AT LESS THAN $30,000
§ 35.01  LIBRARY.
   (A)   The Librarian is hereby authorized to dispose of any surplus library
personal property owned by the town whenever he or she determines, in his or
her discretion, that:
      (1)   The item or group of items has a fair market value of less than
$30,000;
      (2)   The property is no longer necessary for the conduct of public
business; and
      (3)   Sound property management principles and financial considerations
indicate that the interests of the town would best be served by disposing of
the property.
   (B)   The Librarian may dispose of any such surplus library personal
property by any means he or she judges reasonably calculated to yield the
highest attainable sale price in money or other consideration, including but
not limited to, the methods of sale provided in G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 12. The
sale may be public or private, and with or without notice and minimum waiting
period.
   (C)   The surplus property shall be sold to the party who tenders the
highest offer, or exchanges for it any property or services useful to the town
if greater value may be obtained in that manner. The Librarian is hereby
authorized to execute and deliver any applicable title documents. If no offers
are received within a reasonable time, the Librarian may retain the property,
obtain any reasonably available salvage value, or cause it to be discarded. No
surplus property may be donated to any individual or organization except by
resolution of the town.
   (D)   The Librarian shall keep a record of all property sold under authority
of this section. That record shall generally describe the property sold or
exchanged, to whom it was sold or with whom it was exchanged, and the amount of
money or other consideration received for each sale or exchange.
   (E)   This section is enacted pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 160A-266
(c).
(Ord. 19-09, passed 11-12-2019)
§ 35.02  PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   The Public Works Director is hereby authorized to dispose of any
surplus public works personal property owned by the town whenever he or she
determines, in his or her discretion, that:
      (1)   The item or group of items has a fair market value of less than
$30,000;
      (2)   The property is no longer necessary for the conduct of public
business; and
      (3)   Sound property management principles and financial considerations
indicate that the interests of the town would best be served by disposing of
the property.
   (B)   The Public Works Director may dispose of any such surplus public works
personal property by any means he or she judges reasonably calculated to yield
the highest attainable sale price in money or other consideration, including
but not limited to, the methods of sale provided in G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 12. The
sale may be public or private, and with or without notice and minimum waiting
period.
   (C)   The surplus property shall be sold to the party who tenders the
highest offer, or exchanges for it any property or services useful to the town
if greater value may be obtained in that manner. The Public Works Director is
hereby authorized to execute and deliver any applicable title documents. If no
offers are received within a reasonable time, the Public Works Director may
retain the property, obtain any reasonably available salvage value, or cause it
to be discarded. No surplus property may be donated to any individual or
organization except by resolution of the town.
   (D)   The Public Works Director shall keep a record of all property sold
under authority of this section. That record shall generally describe the
property sold or exchanged, to whom it was sold or with whom it was exchanged,
and the amount of money or other consideration received for each sale or
exchange.
   (E)   This section is enacted pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 160A-266
(c).
(Ord. 19-10, passed 11-12-2019)
§ 35.03  PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   The Parks and Recreation Director is hereby authorized to dispose of
any surplus parks and recreation personal property owned by the town whenever
he or she determines, in his or her discretion, that:
      (1)   The item or group of items has a fair market value of less than
$30,000;
      (2)   The property is no longer necessary for the conduct of public
business; and
      (3)   Sound property management principles and financial considerations
indicate that the interests of the town would best be served by disposing of
the property.
   (B)   The Parks and Recreation Director may dispose of any such surplus
parks and recreation personal property by any means he or she judges reasonably
calculated to yield the highest attainable sale price in money or other
consideration, including but not limited to, the methods of sale provided in
G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 12. The sale may be public or private, and with or without
notice and minimum waiting period.
   (C)   The surplus property shall be sold to the party who tenders the
highest offer, or exchanges for it any property or services useful to the town
if greater value may be obtained in that manner. The Parks and Recreation
Director is hereby authorized to execute and deliver any applicable title
documents. If no offers are received within a reasonable time, the Parks and
Recreation Director may retain the property, obtain any reasonably available
salvage value, or cause it to be discarded. No surplus property may be donated
to any individual or organization except by resolution of the town.
   (D)   The Parks and Recreation Director shall keep a record of all property
sold under authority of this section. That record shall generally describe the
property sold or exchanged, to whom it was sold or with whom it was exchanged,
and the amount of money or other consideration received for each sale or
exchange.
   (E)   This section is enacted pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 160A-266
(c).
(Ord. 19-12, passed 1-13-2020)
§ 35.04  POLICE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, or a designated representative, is hereby
authorized to dispose of any surplus police personal property owned by the town
whenever he or she determines, in his or her discretion, that:
      (1)   The item or group of items has a fair market value of less than
$30,000;
      (2)   The property is no longer necessary for the conduct of public
business; and
      (3)   Sound property management principles and financial considerations
indicate that the interests of the town would best be served by disposing of
the property.
   (B)   The Chief of Police, or a designated representative, may dispose of
any such surplus police personal property by any means he or she judges
reasonably calculated to yield the highest attainable sale price in money or
other consideration, including but not limited to the methods of sale provided
in G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 12. The sale may be public or private, and with or
without notice and minimum waiting period.
   (C)   The surplus property shall be sold to the party who tenders the
highest offer, or exchanges for it any property or services useful to the town
if greater value may be obtained in that manner.  The Chief of Police, or a
designated representative, is hereby authorized to execute and deliver any
applicable title documents. If no offers are received within a reasonable time,
the Chief of Police, or a designated representative, may retain the property,
obtain any reasonably available salvage value, or cause it to be discarded. No
surplus property may be donated to any individual or organization except by
resolution of the town.
   (D)   The Chief of Police, or a designated representative, shall keep a
record of all property sold under authority of this section. That record shall
generally describe the property sold or exchanged, to whom it was sold or with
whom it was exchanged, and the amount of money or other consideration received
for each sale or exchange.
   (E)   This section is enacted pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 160A-266
(c).
(Ord. 19-11, passed 1-13-2020)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
         
51.   GENERAL WATER AND SEWER REGULATIONS
         
52.   USE OF SEWER SYSTEM
CHAPTER 50:  GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Garbage cans required
   
50.02   Disposal of sewage and garbage regulated
   
50.03   Unlawful dumping of refuse and garbage prohibited
   
50.04   Use of or trespassing on town dump prohibited
   
50.05   Salvage prohibited
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01  GARBAGE CANS REQUIRED.
   The occupant of each and every residence, apartment, or other living
quarters shall be required to display a garbage can not to exceed a 30-gallon
capacity, and the can shall be located within easy access to a street, for use
of the town in picking up of garbage in the manner and at the times to be
determined by the Town Council.
(Ord. 34, passed 12-6-1971)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.02  DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE AND GARBAGE REGULATED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
discharge, dump, or spread any untreated sewage on any street, alley, lot, or
other place in the Town of Kenly except in those sanitary systems of sewage
disposal described in G.S. §§ 130A-47 et seq. or 130A-333 et seq.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to dump or
discharge garbage or waste on any street, alley, or lot in the Town of Kenly.
(Ord. 23, passed 12-7-1970)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   General Water and Sewer Regulations, see
Ch. 51
   Use of Sewer System, see
Ch. 52
§ 50.03  UNLAWFUL DUMPING OF REFUSE AND GARBAGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any individual, partnership, or corporation
to empty or dump waste paper, paper cups, magazines, trash, refuse, and the
like, upon the surface of the ground at any place within the corporate limits
of the Town of Kenly; provided, it shall not be considered in violation of this
division (A) if the waste matter be immediately destroyed by burning or by
other appropriate disposition.  Pedestrians in the business area of the town
shall deposit waste matter in the receptacles provided for that purpose.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any individual, partnership, or corporation
to dump or throw garbage upon the surface of the ground within the corporate
limits of the Town of Kenly, the garbage in this division (B) referring to the
type which cannot be destroyed by burning (for example, bottles cans and
food).  The garbage shall be deposited in garbage cans, drums, or like
containers for collection by the garbage collector.  (See amendment to this
section.)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any individual, partnership, or corporation
to create or allow a condition which amounts to a public nuisance, upon any
private property within the Town of Kenly, or any condition which may be
detrimental to the public health of the citizens of the town, or to create or
allow conditions which create obnoxious odors, and when the condition is deemed
to exist by the Town Council, the owner of the property, or the occupant if the
same is leased, shall be notified in writing by the Town Council for the owner
or occupant to correct the condition within a reasonable time of the service of
the notice and the failure to abate the nuisance within the reasonable time
shall constitute a violation of this section.
(Ord. 2, passed 7-18-1955)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04  USE OF OR TRESPASSING ON TOWN DUMP PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or the
agents and employees of any firm or corporation, to dump or otherwise deposit
trash, garbage or other waste or material on the Kenly trash dump located on
State Rural Road No. 2347, or the area surrounding the fence enclosing it.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or the
agents and employees of any firm or corporation, to linger, loiter, go upon or
otherwise trespass upon the trash dump or the area surrounding the fence
enclosing it.
   (C)   As notice to the public, the Chief of Police of the Town of Kenly
shall cause to be posted on and in various places around the trash dump signs
warning the public that no dumping or trespassing of any kind is permitted on
the premises.
(Ord. 41, passed 4-22-1974) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05  SALVAGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to collect or salvage any material or
items of any kind whatsoever and remove same from, or loiter upon, the lot used
by the Town of Kenly for disposal of garbage and trash.
(Ord. 25, passed 10-25-1971)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 51:  GENERAL WATER AND SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
Water Shortage Response
   
51.01   Authorization
   
51.02   Notification
   
51.03   Levels of response
   
51.04   Triggers
   
51.05   Return to normal
   
51.06   Enforcement
   
51.07   Public comment
   
51.08   Variance protocols
   
51.09   Effectiveness
   
51.10   Revision
Water and Sewer Services
   
51.20   Applicability to service contracts
   
51.21   Connections required
   
51.22   Mobile homes
   
51.23   Connection applications and permits
   
51.24   Connection requirements
   
51.25   Cut off of water supply
   
51.26   Taps into water or sewer lines
   
51.27   Tampering with meters or lines
   
51.28   Service rates and charges
   
51.29   Billings and rates
   
51.30   Connections outside of town
   
51.31   Tap fee
   
51.32   Town equipment
   
51.33   Installation costs
   
51.34   Deposit
   
51.35   Meters; generally
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Disposal of sewage and garbage regulated, see §
50.02
   Land Usage, see Title XV
   Use of Sewer System, see
Ch. 52
WATER SHORTAGE RESPONSE
§ 51.01  AUTHORIZATION.
   The Kenly Town Manager shall enact the following water shortage response
provisions whenever the trigger conditions outlined in §
51.04 are met. In his or her absence, the Public Utilities Director will assume
this role.
(Ord. 10-7, passed 11-8-2010)
§ 51.02  NOTIFICATION.
   The following notification methods will be used to inform water system
employees and customers of a water shortage declaration: employee e-mail
announcements, notices at municipal buildings, notices in water bills. Required
water shortage response measures will be communicated through The Kenly News,
PSA announcements on local radio and cable stations and the town website
(www.townofkenly.com). Declaration of emergency water restrictions or water
rationing will be communicated to all customers by telephone through use of
reverse 911.
(Ord. 10-7, passed 11-8-2010)
§ 51.03  LEVELS OF RESPONSE.
   Five levels of water shortage response are outlined in the table below. The
5 levels of water shortage response are: voluntary reductions, mandatory
reductions I and II, emergency reductions and water rationing. A detailed
description of each response level and corresponding water reduction measures
follow below.
 
Stage Response                Description
                              Water users are encouraged to reduce their water
1     Voluntary Reductions    use and improve water use efficiency; however, no
                              penalties apply for noncompliance. Water supply
                              conditions indicate a potential for shortage.
                              Water users must abide by required water use
                              reduction and efficiency measures; penalties
2     Mandatory Reductions I  apply for noncompliance. Water supply conditions
                              are significantly lower than the seasonal norm
                              and water shortage conditions are expected to
                              persist.
3     Mandatory Reductions II Same as in Stage 2
                              Water supply conditions are substantially
4     Emergency Reductions    diminished and pose an imminent threat to human
                              health or environmental integrity.
                              Water supply conditions are substantially
5     Water Rationing         diminished and remaining supplies must be
                              allocated to preserve human health and
                              environmental integrity.
 
   (A)   In Stage 1, Voluntary Reductions, all water users will be asked to
reduce their normal water use by 5%. Customer education and outreach programs
will encourage water conservation and efficiency measures including: irrigating
landscapes a maximum of 1 inch per week; preventing water waste, runoff and
watering impervious surfaces; watering plants deeply to encourage root growth;
washing only full loads in clothes and dishwashers; using spring-loaded nozzles
on garden hoses; and identifying and repairing all water leaks.
   (B)   In Stage 2, Mandatory Reductions I, all customers are expected to
reduce their water use by 10% in comparison to their previous month's water
bill, in addition to continuing to encourage all voluntary reduction actions,
the following restrictions apply: irrigation is limited to a half inch per week
between 8PM and 8AM; outdoor use of drinking water for washing impervious
surfaces is prohibited; and all testing and training purposes requiring
drinking water (e.g. fire protection) will be limited.
   (C)   In Stage 3, Mandatory Reductions II, customers must continue actions
from all previous stages and further reduce water use by 20% compared to their
previous month's water bill. All non-essential uses of drinking water are
banned and garden and landscape irrigation must be reduced to the minimum
amount necessary for survival. Additionally, in Stage 3, a drought surcharge of
1.5 times the normal water rate applies.
   (D)   In Stage 4, Emergency Reductions, customers must continue all actions
from previous stages and further reduce their water use by 25% compared to
their previous month's water bill. A ban on all use of drinking water except to
protect public health and safety is implemented and drought surcharges increase
to 2 times the normal water rate.
   (E)   The goal of Stage 5, Water Rationing, is to provide drinking water to
protect public health (e.g. residences, residential health care facilities and
correctional facilities). In Stage 5, all customers are only permitted to use
water at the minimum required for public health protection. Firefighting is the
only allowable outdoor water use and pickup locations for distributing potable
water will be announced according to Kenly's Emergency Response Plan. Drought
surcharges increase to 5 times the normal water rate.
(Ord. 10-7, passed 11-8-2010)
§ 51.04  TRIGGERS.
   Kenly is provided water by purchase from Johnston and Wilson Counties. The
town purchases water monthly from Johnston County and typically only accesses
Wilson County's supply during an emergency. When Johnston County declares a
water shortage Kenly is required to do so as well. During this time, the Kenly
Public Utilities Director will stay in close contact with Johnston County and
follow their Water Shortage Response Levels.
(Ord. 10-7, passed 11-8-2010)
§ 51.05  RETURN TO NORMAL.
   When water shortage conditions have abated and the situation is returning to
normal, water conservation measures employed during each phase should be
decreased in reverse order of implementation.
(Ord. 10-7, passed 11-8-2010)
§ 51.06  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The provisions of the water shortage response plan will be enforced by
Town of Kenly Public Utilities Department and police personnel. Violators may
be reported by phone, email or in-person at Town Hall. Citations are assessed
according to the following schedule depending on the number of prior violations
and current level of water shortage.
 
Water Shortage Level  First Violation Second Violation   Third Violation
Voluntary Reductions  N/A             N/A                N/A
Mandatory Reductions  Warning         $250               Discontinuation of
(Stages 2 and 3)                                         Service
Emergency Reductions  $250            Discontinuation of Discontinuation of
                                      Service            Service
Water Rationing       $500            Discontinuation of Discontinuation of
                                      Service            Service
 
   (B)   Drought surcharge rates are effective in Stages 3, 4 and 5.
(Ord. 10-7, passed 11-8-2010)
§ 51.07  PUBLIC COMMENT.
   Customers will have multiple opportunities to comment on the provisions of
the water shortage response plan. First, a draft plan will be available at Town
Hall for customers to view. A notice will be included in the customer water
bill notifying them of such. Also, a draft plan will be published on the town's
website and in The Kenly News. All subsequent revisions to the draft plan will
be published at least 30 days prior to an adoption vote by the Kenly Town
Council.
(Ord. 10-7, passed 11-8-2010)
§ 51.08  VARIANCE PROTOCOLS.
   Applications for water use variance requests are available from the Town
Public Works Office. All applications must be submitted to the Public Works
Office for review by the Public Works Director or his or her designee. A
decision to approve or deny individual variance requests will be determined
within 2 weeks of submittal after careful consideration of the following
criteria: impact on water demand, expected duration, alternative source
options, social and economic importance, purpose (i.e. necessary use of
drinking water) and the prevention of structural damage.
(Ord. 10-7, passed 11-8-2010)
§ 51.09  EFFECTIVENESS.
   The effectiveness of the Kenly water shortage response plan will be
determined by comparing the stated water conservation goals with observed water
use reduction data. Other factors to be considered include frequency of plan
activation, any problem periods without activation, total number of violation
citations, desired reductions attained and evaluation of demand reductions
compared to the previous year's seasonal data.
(Ord. 10-7, passed 11-8-2010)
§ 51.10  REVISION.
   The water shortage response plan will be reviewed and revised as needed to
adapt to new circumstances affecting water supply and demand, following
implementation of emergency restrictions, and at a minimum of every 5 years in
conjunction with the updating of our Local Water Supply Plan. Further, a water
shortage response planning work group will review procedures following each
emergency or rationing stage to recommend any necessary improvements to the
plan to the Kenly Town Council.
(Ord. 10-7, passed 11-8-2010)
WATER AND SEWER SERVICES
§ 51.20  APPLICABILITY TO SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   All pertinent provisions of §§ 51.20 et seq. are hereby made a part of the
terms and conditions of any contract whereby the Town of Kenly furnishes sewer
service or water service to any individual or corporate entity or other
association or performs any work of any kind in connection with the furnishing
of a sewer service or water service.
(Ord. 51, passed 5-7-1979)
§ 51.21  CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   Every house, building, apartment, or other residential, institutional, or
business building abutting any water and sewer main in the Town of Kenly shall
be separately and independently connected to the water and sewer main.
(Ord. 51, passed 5-7-1979) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.22  MOBILE HOMES.
   Sections 51.20 et seq. shall apply to mobile home or mobile building owners
and occupiers and to the lots on which the mobile homes or mobile buildings may
be located in the same manner as the same applies to permanent construction
buildings.
(Ord. 51, passed 5-7-1979)
§ 51.23  CONNECTION APPLICATIONS AND PERMITS.
   (A)   Any individual or corporate entity or other association wishing to
connect with the water system of the Town of Kenly shall first file written
application with the Town Clerk, and the approval of the application shall be
in the form of a permit.  All applications pending at the time §§ 51.20 et seq.
shall become effective and all future applications shall be subject to the
rates in existence at the time the applications may be approved and permits
issued.  In addition, the applicant shall, by filing the application, agree to
be governed by the rules and regulations of the town, to give 10-days' notice
in case he or she shall desire to stop using town water, to be responsible for
water charges in case the notice shall not be given and to waive all right of
action against the town in case the Town Council shall find necessary to cut
off the property owner's or user's water supply.
(Ord. 51, passed 5-7-1979)
   (B)   If a permit is not issued by the town within 6 months from the date of
the application, the applicant shall have 30 days after the expiration of the
6-month period in which to re-apply, and failure to re-apply within the 30-day
period shall cause the applicant to lose his or her priority on the list of
applicants.
(Ord. 51, passed 5-7-1979)
   (C)   Any builder, property owner, developer, or other person or entity,
desiring to connect to the water or sewer system of the Town of Kenly, shall
first make application as provided in division (A) above, setting out in the
application the type and size of hook-up needed.  The application shall state
clearly the use intended for the connection.  All specifications for proposed
hook-ups and connections must be approved by the Superintendent of Public Works
or other appropriate authorities as may be designated by the Town Council prior
to submission of the application to the Town Council for approval.  The Town
Council may, in its discretion, permit more than 1 hook-up at this service,
upon compliance with the following requirements:
      (1)   That the property owner be responsible for all fees, including tap-
ins, deposits, and monthly charges, and that the application or other
appropriate documentation of the responsibility is executed by the property
owner prior to approval of the application by the Town Council;
      (2)   That at any service location at which there is more than 1 hook-up,
charges for the service will be billed by meter at the commercial rate in force
from time to time for the Town of Kenly, the meter for the service to be placed
on the town's side of the several hook-ups to the end that the entire
consumption for the service connection will be measured by 1 meter;
      (3)   That the tap-in fee for each in-town connection shall be based upon
actual cost; and
      (4)   That the tap-in fee for each out-of-town connection shall be based
upon cost plus 100% of the cost.
(Ord. passed 2-9-1981)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.24  CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   From and after 6-1-1979, all applicants for water and sewer connections, in
addition to other requirements of §§ 51.20 et seq., will comply with the
following requirements.
   (A)   There will be installed on each water line a cut-off valve on the
owner side of the water meter box which will provide a means of stopping the
flow of water without the necessity of using the town's valves in the meter
box.
   (B)   There will be installed on each sewer line a sewer clean-out valve.
   (C)   All valves mentioned in the divisions (A) and (B) above must be
approved by the Building Inspector for the Town of Kenly prior to the town's
cutting on water to the premises.
   (D)   On new construction projects, the contractor or someone on his or her
behalf must post a water deposit as would be required for an owner of the
property prior to the town's cutting on water to the project.
(Ord. 51, passed 5-7-1979) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.25  CUT OFF OF WATER SUPPLY.
   The town reserves the right to cut off the water supply for emergencies,
breaks, or repairs being made.  When possible, all affected water users will be
notified in advance by the town.
(Ord. 51, passed 5-7-1979)
§ 51.26  TAPS INTO WATER OR SEWER LINES.
   No taps into any water or sewer system lines of the Town of Kenly or subject
to jurisdiction of the Town of Kenly or serviced by the Town of Kenly or into
any lateral lines installed on and maintained by any individual property owner
or user shall be made without the written consent and approval of the town or
of its duly authorized representative or employee.
(Ord. 51, passed 5-7-1979) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.27  TAMPERING WITH METERS OR LINES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporate entity, or other association,
personally or by and through agents, servants, or employees, in any way or
manner to tamper or meddle with a meter for the measurement of water supplied
by the Town of Kenly or to attempt to repair the meter or to tamper with or
meddle with any sewer or water lines of the Town of Kenly or under the town's
jurisdiction or which are serviced by the town.
(Ord. 51, passed 5-7-1979) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.28  SERVICE RATES AND CHARGES.
   Charges for tap in of water and sewer lines, for water deposits, and the
minimum residential, commercial, and industrial monthly water rates shall be as
set forth in the table below.
   (A)   Charges for tapping on to water and sewer lines owned by the town.
      (1)   Water tap inside town limits.
 
3/4 inch      $550
1 inch        $650
2 inch and up Cost plus 10%
 
      (2)   Water tap outside town limits.
 
3/4 inch      $650
1 inch        $750
2 inch and up Cost plus 10%
 
      (3)   Sewer tap inside town limits.
 
4 inch $750
6 inch $900
 
      (4)   Sewer tap outside town limits.
 
4 inch $850
6 inch $1,000
 
   (B)   Acreage and flow fees charged for capital reserve in the wastewater
treatment plant.
      (1)   Residential.  Two hundred fifty dollars per acre or any fraction
thereof, plus $250 flat rate flow fee.
      (2)   Non-residential.  Four hundred fifty dollars per acre or any
fraction thereof plus $1 per gallon of allocated daily flow.
      (3)   Examples.  The following examples shall be the basis for
residential and non-residential fee calculations.
         (a)   Residential.  Single-family dwelling on a single owner lot
containing 1.2 acres.
            $250/Acre x 1.2 Acres = $300
                     + $250 (flat rate flow fee)
                        $550 total fee
         (b)   Non-residential.  Apartments, apartment complexes, commercial or
industrial businesses and the like containing 5 acres and NC DEM base flow or
developer requested flow (if larger) of 3,000 GPD:
      $450/Acre x 5 Acres = $2,250
      $1.00/Gallon of Allocated Daily Flow of 3,000 Gallons
               ($1 x 3,000 = $3,000)
               $2,250
         +      $3,000
               $5,250
   (C)   Assessment fee for water.  A 1 time charge for water services at a
rate of $2.50 per gallon for 1 day use. A family of 4 will use 175 gallons a
day at $2.50 per gallon.
      175 x $2.50 = $437.50
   (D)   Service fees for infrastructure subject to reimbursement agreements.
      (1)   This is a fee for tapping onto a privately-developed, town-owned
water or sewer line that is subject to a reimbursement agreement. This service
fee is in addition to all fees listed above.
      $1,960.52 per acre developed*
      Example:  A developer buys 20 acres of land. On this land is a sewer line
that is subject to a reimbursement agreement. The developer plans to tap onto
the sewer line and build on 10 acres right away.
      $1,960.52/Acre Developed x 10 Acres = $19,605.20
      (2)   The developer will pay the town $19,605.20 for the 10 developed
acres. If the other 10 acres are developed in the future, the same formula
shall be used to determine payment to the town, even if no additional taps are
necessary.
      (3)   *DEVELOPED is defined as constructing a building, paving or some
other form of man-made or taxable improvement.
(Ord. 51, passed 5-7-1979; Am. Ord. passed 2-13-2006)
§ 51.29  BILLINGS AND RATES.
   (A)   Until the time as the Town of Kenly shall measure all residential
water consumption by meter, all residential accounts, metered and unmetered,
will be billed monthly on a average use basis, the basis to be established as
follows.
      (1)   (a)   The Town of Kenly presently has installed and operating
approximately 200 water meters in residential units.
         (b)   The average use basis will be established by the experience
rates of presently metered customers and computed at least every 3 months and
separated into divisions for residential units having the same number of
occupants.
         (c)   All water users, both metered and unmetered, in each division (1
occupant, 2 occupants, and the like) will then be billed for water use in
accordance with the average use basis established for the division.
      (2)   (a)   For example, if the town has 10 metered homes which have 4
occupants and the total water consumption for 1 month for all 10 homes is
10,000 gallons, the average monthly consumption for 1 the residence is 1,000
gallons.
         (b)   All 10 of these metered accounts and all those unmetered
residential accounts having 4 occupants will be billed for a monthly water
consumption of 1,000 gallons (the average use basis for a 4-occupant residence
being 1,000 gallons).
   (B)   All business, commercial, and industrial accounts will be billed by
meter; and if a meter becomes inoperable the accounts will be billed on the
basis of the average of the last 3-months' usage until the meter can be placed
back into operation.
   (C)   The rates for water consumption shall be in accordance with Exhibit B,
which is attached to Ordinance 51 and incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 51, passed 5-7-1979; Am. Ord. passed 8-6-1979; Am. Ord. passed 2-9-1987;
Am. Ord. passed--; Am. Ord. passed 6-8-2009)
§ 51.30  CONNECTIONS OUTSIDE OF TOWN.
   No connection of any water line or sewer system outside of the Town of Kenly
shall be made to any part of the town water or sewer system without special
permission from the Town Council and on the terms as the Town Council shall
prescribe.
(Ord. 51, passed 5-7-1979) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.31  TAP FEE.
   No water or sewer connection shall be made for any premises without first
paying the tap fee in the office of the Town Clerk before any construction is
begun by the town, and no connection tap charge shall be accepted away from the
office of the Town Clerk.
(Ord. 51, passed 5-7-1979)
§ 51.32  TOWN EQUIPMENT.
   All meters, meter boxes, pipes, and other equipment furnished and used by
the Town of Kenly in installing any water connection shall be and remain the
property of the Town of Kenly.
(Ord. 51, passed 5-7-1979)
§ 51.33  INSTALLATION COSTS.
   The Town of Kenly will bear the cost of installing water meters at all
residences and businesses, commercial or industrial establishments now
existing, and no tap fee or connection fee will be charged for installation of
a water meter at those presently existing locations which are being billed for
water consumption at the time of the effect of §§
51.20et seq.
(Ord. 51, passed 5-7-1979)
§ 51.34  DEPOSIT.
   (A)   A meter deposit will be required on each commercial account, the
deposit to be equivalent to 1 month's water and sewer charges; provided that
after a 3-month billing period, the Town of Kenly will take the monthly average
for the account and use the average as a base for any additional deposit which
may be required and will bill the additional deposit to the customer at the end
of the 3-month billing period.
   (B)   (1)   All individual residential, business or industrial users or
others requesting to connect and receive water and/or sewer service from the
town shall first make application for service and make a deposit equivalent to
2 month's water and sewer charges.  The deposit shall be calculated on 2 times
the average of the preceding 12 months billing for that particular account.
      (2)   If an account does not have a 12-month history the deposit shall be
calculated on 2 times the average of the preceding available months billing for
that particular account.
      (3)   With garbage collection being on the same monthly bill the garbage
collection fee shall be included in the deposit calculated and required for the
individual, business or industry requesting service.
The minimum deposit shall be $40.
      (4)   The deposit shall be returned to a customer who has been on the
system for 30 months without being on the cutoff list for more than 1 month. 
If a customer has been on the cutoff list 2 or more times during the 30-month
period the deposit shall not be returned until the customer leaves the town's
system and any and all outstanding bills have been paid by the customer.  The
deposit shall be refunded, minus all outstanding bills, after the next billing
cycle reflects the final bill has been paid by the customer.  If a customer
leaves the town's system without paying the final billing amount and the
deposit will not cover the amount of the final billing amount the customer
shall pay the difference in the amount of the final billing and deposit before
being put back on the town's system at any location the town serves.
(Ord. passed 2-9-1981; Am. Ord. passed 2-8-1988)
§ 51.35  METERS; GENERALLY.
   (A)   Each residential dwelling unit and business shall have a separate
water meter except where an extreme existing hardship exists that would not
allow or permit the existing plumbing to be separated into individual plumbing
systems.  The town shall determine whether each combined service is an existing
hardship case and will be exempted.  The property owner installing a separate
service line to the street right-of-way or utility easement does not constitute
an existing hardship.
   (B)   Property owners shall be responsible for the individual billings for
service to dwelling units and/or businesses that are served by 1 meter until
multiple hookups are eliminated.  This shall apply to all residential,
commercial, and industrial connected onto the town's utility mains.
   (C)   Two or more residential and/or businesses may use the same sewer
service if it is properly sized to meet the N.C. Plumbing Code.
   (D)   All residents and businesses within the town limits of the Town of
Kenly shall be connected onto the town's water and sewer systems.
   (E)   No residential or business facility shall connect his or her potable
water and plumbing to a water source other than the town's.  Irrigation systems
may be connected onto an approved well but a separate plumbing system shall be
constructed as to not interconnect or cross-connect the irrigation system to
the line containing water from the Town of Kenly.  Water from sources other
than the Town of Kenly shall not be discharged into the town's sewer system. 
All systems that contain non-town furnished water shall be inspected by the
Town of Kenly at least twice a year.
   (F)   Residential and business customers that receive their drinking water
from a source other than from the Town of Kenly and were connected onto their
sources of water prior to 10-10-1988 may remain connected under all of the
following conditions.
      (1)   The property owner shall provide a water analysis of their water
system (including bacteria analysis) at least twice a year.
      (2)   The property owner shall have a double check valve/backflow
preventer device installed by a licensed plumber within 5 feet of the town’s
meter box on the property owner's side of the meter box.
      (3)   Once a property owner's other source for drinking water goes dry or
becomes contaminated, the property owner shall immediately connect onto the
town's water system.
      (4)   Once a property owner's septic tank system fails to properly handle
the wastewater, the property owner shall immediately connect onto the town's
wastewater system.
   (G)   Any residential or business customer that received his or her water
from a source other than the town shall pay for a minimal quantity of 3,000
gallons for water and for sewer.  If the customer or the town desires, a meter
will be installed on the other water source to determine the actual usage.  The
customer shall pay for the installation of the meter and the town shall furnish
and read the meter.
   (H)   A customer may have 1 water and sewer billing amount adjusted per
every 12-month period for a billing amount that is not in line for that
particular customer.  If a customer has a high bill because of a leak on the
customer’s side of the meter and the customer provides the town with a
statement from a plumber that the leak was repaired and the water was not
returned to the town’s wastewater system, the customer's sewer portion of the
bill shall be adjusted by averaging the past 6 months’ bills.  The customer
shall remain responsible for the water that went through his or her meter.  In
the event the leak is carried over multiple months, the customer has the option
of choosing which month is to be adjusted.  For example, if a leak starts on
July 8 but is not fixed until July 25, the customer has the option of having an
adjustment on the August or September bill. The rationale for this is that
meters are read on the 15th so the usage for the August bill would be July 8-
July 15, while the usage for the September bill would be July 16-August 15.
   (I)   The town shall maintain and service the water meter for each
customer.  If a customer believes that the town has a nonworking or incorrectly
working meter, the customer has the right to request the town to check the
meter and change the meter if it is not properly operating.
   (J)   If a customer requests the town to check his or her meter more than 1
time per month and no problem is found with the meter, the customer shall pay a
service charge of $10 for each time over the 1 time per month the customer
requests service to the meter and no problem is found with the meter.  This fee
shall be a part of the regular monthly billing.
   (K)   When a user's bill is not paid on or before the tenth of the month
after the month it was read, the user shall pay a 10% penalty for all services
provided by the town as shown on the monthly billing.  If a user does not pay
his or her bill by the twentieth of the month after the month it was read, the
town shall prepare a list of users that have not paid their bill.  The town
shall cut off each user's water whose name appears on the list.  All users that
do not pay their bill on or before the twentieth shall pay a fee as set forth
in the town's fee schedule.  If the service is cut off by the town and the
water is cut on prior to paying the town for the past due bill, the user shall
pay an additional meter tampering fee of as set forth in the town's fee
schedule.  Once a user's water is cut off, the entire bill must be paid by the
user to have the water cut back on.  All past due customers shall have until 1-
20-1989 to get their accounts made current on outstanding bills for service
prior to 12-1-1988.
   (L)   Each and every residential customer within the town limits shall pay
for garbage service provided by the Town of Kenly except residential complexes
that provide container service to their tenants.
   (M)   A residential customer must be away from his or her primary residence
at least 60 days before the monthly service fee will be waived.
   (N)   This amendment shall become effective with the January, 1989, bills.
(Ord. passed 11-14-1988; Am. Ord. 19-08, passed 11-12-2019)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided, violations of §§
51.01et seq. shall be punishable as follows.
      (1)   First violation; warning.  For a first violation, notice shall be
given to the customer, explaining the town's present water shortage situation
and warning that a second violation will result in the requirement that a flow
restriction device be installed by the town at the customer's expense.
      (2)   Second violation; flow restriction device. For a second violation,
notice shall be given to the customer, informing the customer that a $50 charge
will need be paid in 10 days order keep his or her service on.
      (3)   Third and subsequent violations; water shutoff and turn on charge.
For a third or a subsequent violation, notice shall be given to the customer,
informing the customer that water service to the premises has been shutoff and
a charge as set forth in the town's fee schedule will be paid in order to turn
the service back on.
      (4)   Opportunity to comment and appeal.  Prior to imposition of the
penalty for either a second, third, or subsequent violation, the customer shall
be given notice of an opportunity to comment to the Mayor or designee within 24
hours of receiving the notice or the later time as the Mayor may designate,
regarding any reason that the penalty should not be imposed.  If, after the
comment, the Mayor decides to proceed with imposition of the penalty, the
customer shall have the opportunity to appeal to the Council or designee within
24 hours of the Mayor determination or the later time as the Council may
designate.  The Council's determination shall be final and non-appealable.  The
24-hour periods shall exclude Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.
      (5)   Method of giving notice.  Notice provided under this division (B)
shall be given either by hand-delivering written notification to an occupant at
the customer's service address, provided that in the absence of an occupant the
written notification may be posted conspicuously at the premises, or by
certified mail.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2003)
   (C)   (1)   Any person, corporate entity, or other association violating any
of the provisions of §§
51.26 and
51.27 shall be liable to the Town of Kenly for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned by the town by reason of the violation.
      (2)   Each day that a violation of §§
51.26 and/or
51.27 is allowed to be continued by any person, corporate entity, or other
association shall constitute a separate offense for which the person may be
convicted and fined up to $50 or imprisoned for up to 30 days, or both.
(Ord. 51, passed 5-7-1979)
CHAPTER 52:  USE OF SEWER SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Purpose and policy
   
52.002   Definitions and abbreviations
General Sewer Use Requirements
   
52.020   Prohibited discharge standards
   
52.021   National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
   
52.022   Local limits
   
52.023   State requirements
   
52.024   Right of revision
   
52.025   Dilution
   
52.026   Pretreatment of wastewater
   
52.027   Accidental discharge/slug control plans
   
52.028   Hauled wastewater
Fees
   
52.035   Purpose
   
52.036   User charges
   
52.037   Surcharges
   
52.038   Pretreatment program administration charges
Wastewater Discharge Permit Application and Issuance
   
52.045   Wastewater dischargers
   
52.046   Wastewater permits
Reporting Requirements
   
52.055   Baseline monitoring reports
   
52.056   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
52.057   Reports on compliance with Categorical Pretreatment Standard; deadline
   
52.058   Periodic compliance reports
   
52.059   Reports of changed conditions
   
52.060   Reports of potential problems
   
52.061   Reports from unpermitted users
   
52.062   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting
   
52.063   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste
   
52.064   Analytical requirements
   
52.065   Grab & composite sample collection
Timing
   
52.070   Written reports
Record Keeping
   
52.080   Requirements
Electronic Reporting
   
52.090   Compliance monitoring
   
52.091   Monitoring facilities
   
52.092   Inspection and sampling
   
52.093   Search warrants
Confidential Information
   
52.100   Information management
Enforcement
   
52.110   Administrative remedies
   
52.111   Other available remedies
   
52.112   Remedies nonexclusive
Annual Publication of Significant Noncompliance
   
52.120   Publication
Affirmative Defenses to Discharge Violations
   
52.130   Upset
   
52.131   Prohibited discharge standards defense
   
52.132   Bypass
Severability
   
52.140   Provisions
Conflict
   
52.150   Inconsistency or conflict
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001  PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the town,
hereafter referred to as the “town,” and enables the town to comply with all
applicable state and federal laws, including the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§
1251 et seq.) and the General Pretreatment Regulations (40 C.F.R. Part 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated,
into any waters of the state or otherwise be incompatible with the system;
      (3)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludges
from the municipal system;
      (4)   To protect both municipal personnel who may be affected by sewage,
sludge and effluent in the course of their employment as well as protecting the
general public;
      (5)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of operation,
maintenance and improvement of the municipal wastewater system; and
      (6)   To ensure that the municipality complies with its NPDES or Non-
Discharge Permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements and any other
federal or state laws to which the municipal wastewater system is subject.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the municipal wastewater system, through the issuance of
permits to certain non-domestic users and through enforcement of general
requirements for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement
activities, requires user reporting and provides for the setting of fees for
the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program established
herein.
   (D)   This chapter shall apply to all users of the municipal wastewater
system, as authorized by G.S. §§ 160A-312 and/or 153A-275. The town shall
designate an administrator of the POTW and pretreatment program hereafter
referred to as the town. Except as otherwise provided herein, the town shall
administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers
granted to or imposed upon the town may be delegated by the town to other town
personnel. By discharging wastewater into the municipal wastewater system,
industrial users located outside the town limits agree to comply with the terms
and conditions established in this chapter, as well as any permits, enforcement
actions, or orders issued hereunder.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 52.002  DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT  or “THE ACT”.  The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known
as the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
      APPROVAL AUTHORITY.   The Director of the Division of Water Quality of
the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources or his or
her designee.
      AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE INDUSTRIAL USER.
         (a)   If the industrial user is a corporation, AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE shall mean:
            1.   The President, Secretary or a Vice-President of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
            2.   The Manager of 1 or more manufacturing, production, or
operation facilities, provided, the Manager is authorized to make management
decisions which govern the operation of the regulated facility including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct comprehensive measures to assure long-
term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather
complete and accurate information for control mechanism requirements; and where
authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the Manager in
accordance with corporate procedures.
         (b)   If the industrial user is a partnership or sole proprietorship,
an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE  shall mean a general partner or the proprietor,
respectively.
         (c)   If the industrial user is a federal, state or local government
facility, an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE  shall mean a director or highest
official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of
the activities of the government facility, or their designee.
         (d)   The individuals described in divisions (a) through (c) above may
designate another authorized representative if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to the town.
         (e)   If the designation of an authorized representative is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility, or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new authorization satisfying the requirements of
this section must be submitted to the town prior to or together with any
reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD).   The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for 5 days at 20°C, usually expressed as a concentration (e.g. mg/1).
      BUILDING SEWER.   A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a
user to the POTW.
      BYPASS.   The intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of a
user’s treatment facility.
      CATEGORICAL STANDARDS.   National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or
Pretreatment Standard.
      ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA.   The U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, or where appropriate, the term may also be used as a
designation for the Administrator or other duly authorized official of the
agency.
      GRAB SAMPLE.   A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a 1-time
basis without regard to the flow in the waste stream and over a period of time
not to exceed 15 minutes.
      HOLDING TANK WASTE.   Any waste from holding tanks, including, but not
limited to, such holding tanks as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers,
septic tanks and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
      INDIRECT DISCHARGE  or  DISCHARGE.   The discharge or the introduction
from any non-domestic source regulated under §§ 307(b), (c) or (d) of the Act
(33 U.S.C. 1317) into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into
the system).
      INDUSTRIAL USER or USER.   Any person which is a source of indirect
discharge.
      INTERFERENCE.   The inhibition, or disruption of the POTW treatment
processes, operations or its sludge process, use or disposal, which causes or
contributes to a violation of any requirement of the POTW’s NPDES or Non-
Discharge Permit or prevents sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with
specified applicable state and federal statutes, regulations or permits. The
term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by the POTW in
accordance with § 405 of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1345) or any criteria, guidelines
or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA)(42
U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.), the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act,
the Marine Protection Research and Sanctuary Act (MPRSA) or more stringent
state criteria (including those contained in any state sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to Title IV of SWDA) applicable to the method of disposal or
use employed by the POTW.
      MEDICAL WASTE.   Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and
blood products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes and dialysis
wastes.
      NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD OR CATEGORICAL STANDARD.   Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in
accordance with §§ 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which applies
to a specific category of industrial users, and which appears in 40 C.F.R.
Chapter 1, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471.
      NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM OR NPDES, PERMIT. A
permit issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342), or pursuant to
G.S. § 143-215.1 by the state under delegation from EPA.
      NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD OR PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE
STANDARD.   Absolute prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances.
These prohibitions appear in § 52.020 and are developed under the authority of
§ 307(b) of the Act and 40 C.F.R. § 403.5.
      NEW SOURCE.
         (a)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which
there may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed Categorical Pretreatment Standards under §
307(c) of the Act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with § 307(c), provided that:
            1.   The building, structure, facility or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located;
            2.   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
            3.   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
         (b)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of divisions (a)2. or (a)3. above but otherwise alters, replaces or adds to
existing process or production equipment.
         (c)   For purposes of this definition, construction of a new source
has commenced if the owner or operator has:
            1.   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
               a.   Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
               b.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is
necessary for the placement, assembly or installation of new source facilities
or equipment.
            2.   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under
this definition.
      NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER.   Water used for cooling which does not come
into direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product
or finished product.
      NON-DISCHARGE PERMIT.   A disposal system permit issued by the state
pursuant to G.S. § 143-215.1.
      PASS THROUGH.   A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the state
in quantities or concentrations which, alone or with discharges from other
sources, causes a violation, including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation, of the POTW’s NPDES or Non-Discharge Permit, or a downstream
water quality standard.
      PERSON.   Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state and local government
entities.
      pH.   A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a substance, expressed as
standard units, and calculated as the logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of
the concentration of hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
      POLLUTANT.   Any “waste” as defined in G.S. § 143-213(18) and dredged
spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge,
munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive
materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and
industrial, municipal and agricultural waste and certain characteristics of
wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity or
odor).
      POTW TREATMENT PLANT.   That portion of the POTW designed to provide
treatment to wastewater.
      PRETREATMENT  or  TREATMENT.   The reduction of the amount of pollutants,
the elimination of pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise
introducing such pollution into a POTW. The reduction or alteration can be
obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes, or process changes or
other means, except by diluting the concentration of the pollutants unless
allowed by an applicable pretreatment standard.
      PRETREATMENT PROGRAM.   The program for the control of pollutants
introduced into the POTW from non-domestic sources which was developed by the
town in compliance with 40 C.F.R. 403.8 and approved by the approval authority
as authorized by G.S. § 143-215.3(a)(14) in accordance with 40 C.F.R. 403.11.
      PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS.   Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard.
      PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.   Prohibited discharge standards, categorical
standards and local limits.
      PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW) OR MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER SYSTEM.   A
treatment works as defined by § 212 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1292) which is
owned in this instance by the town. This definition includes any devices or
systems used in the collection, storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation
of municipal sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature. It also includes
sewers, pipes and other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant. For the purposes of this chapter, POTW shall also include any
sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside the town who
are, by contract or agreement with the town, or in any other way, users of the
POTW of the town.
      SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE.   Substantial physical damage to property, damage
to the user’s treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE  does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the wastewater
disposal system who:
         (a)   Has an average daily process wastewater flow of 25,000 gallons
or more;
         (b)   Contributes more than 5% of any design or treatment capacity
(i.e., allowable pollutant load) of the wastewater treatment plant receiving
the indirect discharge;
         (c)   Is required to meet a National Categorical Pretreatment
Standard; or
         (d)   Is found by the town, the Division of Water Quality or the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to have the potential for impact, either
singly or in combination with other contributing industrial users, on the
wastewater treatment system, the quality of sludge, the system’s effluent
quality or compliance with any pretreatment standards or requirements.
      SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE  or  REPORTABLE NONCOMPLIANCE.   A status of
noncompliance defined as follows:
         (a)   Violations of wastewater discharge limits.
            1.   Chronic violations.  Sixty-six percent or more of the
measurements exceed (by any magnitude) the same daily maximum limit or the same
average limit in a 6-month period.
            2.   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations.  Thirty-three
percent or more of the measurements equal or exceed the TRC times the limit
(maximum or average) in a 6-month period. There are 2 groups of TRCs:
               a.   For the conventional pollutants: BOD, TSS, fats, oil and
grease: TRC=1.4.
               b.   For all other pollutants TRC = 1.2.
            3.   Any other violation(s) of an effluent limit (average or daily
maximum) that the control authority believes has caused, alone or in
combination with other discharges, interference or pass-through; or endangered
the health of the sewage treatment plant personnel or the public.
            4.   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent
endangerment to human health/welfare or to the environment or has resulted in
the POTW’s exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a
discharge.
         (b)   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, contained in a
pretreatment permit or enforcement order, for starting construction, completing
construction and attaining final compliance by 90 days or more after the
schedule date.
         (c)   Failure to provide reports for compliance schedule, self-
monitoring data, baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports and
periodic compliance reports within 30 days from the due date.
         (d)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance.
         (e)   Any other violation or group of violations that the control
authority considers to be significant.
      SLUG LOAD  or DISCHARGE.   Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration
which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass-through, or in
any other way violates the POTW's regulations, local limits, or Industrial User
Permit conditions. This can include but is not limited to spills and other
accidental discharges; discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature; a non-
customary batch discharge; or any other discharges that can cause a violation
of the prohibited discharge standards in § 52.020.
      STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC).   A classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of
the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1987.
      STORM WATER.   Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS.   The total suspended matter that floats on the surface
of, or is suspended in water, wastewater or other liquids, and which is
removable by laboratory filtering.
      TOWN.  The Town Administrator designated with the responsibility for the
pretreatment program and enforcement of this Sewer Use Ordinance.
      UPSET.   An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and
temporary noncompliance with Categorical Pretreatment Standards because of
factors beyond the reasonable control of the user. An upset does not include
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive
maintenance or careless or improper operation.
      UTILITIES DIRECTOR.  The person designated by the town to supervise the
operation of the publicly owned treatment works and who is charged with certain
duties and responsibilities by this chapter, or his or her duly authorized
representative.
      WASTEWATER.   The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes
from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, mobile sources,
treatment facilities and institutions, together with any groundwater, surface
water and storm water that may be present, whether treated or untreated, which
are contributed into or permitted to enter the POTW.
      WASTEWATER PERMIT.   As set forth in § 52.046.
      WATERS OF THE STATE.   All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
   (B)   This chapter is gender neutral and the masculine gender shall include
the feminine and vice-versa.
   (C)   SHALL is mandatory; MAY is permissive or discretionary.
   (D)   The use of the singular shall be construed to include the plural, and
the plural shall include the singular as indicated by the context of its use.
   (E)   The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
      (1)   BOD: Biochemical Oxygen Demand;
      (2)   C.F.R.: Code of Federal Regulations;
      (3)   COD: Chemical Oxygen Demand;
      (4)   EPA: Environmental Protection Agency;
      (5)   gpd: Gallons per day;
      (6)   l: Liter;
      (7)   mg: Milligrams;
      (8)   mg/l: Milligrams per liter;
      (9)   N.C.G.S.: North Carolina General Statutes;
      (l0)   NPDES: National Pollution Discharge Elimination System;
      (11)   O&M: Operation and Maintenance;
      (12)   POTW: Publicly Owned Treatment Works;
      (13)   RCRA: Resource Conservation and Recovery Act:
      (14)   SIC: Standard Industrial Classification;
      (15)   SWDA: Solid Waste Disposal Act;
      (16)   TSS: Total Suspended Solids;
      (17)   TKN: Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen; and
      (18)   U.S.C.: United States Code.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS
§ 52.020  PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General prohibitions.  No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the POTW, directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater
which causes interference or pass through. These general prohibitions apply to
all users of a POTW whether or not the user is a significant industrial user or
subject to any national, state or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions.  No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the POTW the following pollutants, substances or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. 261.21;
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference but in no case solids greater
than 1/2 inch in any dimension.
      (3)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      (4)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 12.5 or
wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage to the
POTW or equipment;
      (5)   Any wastewater containing pollutants, including oxygen-demanding
pollutants (BOD and the like) in sufficient quantity, (flow or concentration)
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to cause interference
with the POTW;
      (6)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (66°C), or
which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
      (7)   Any pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (8)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the town in accordance with §
52.028;
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids or other
wastewater which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are
sufficient to create a public nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to
prevent entry into the sewers for maintenance and repair;
      (10)   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case
shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance
with sludge use or disposal regulations or permits issued under § 405 of the
Act; the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances
Control Act or state criteria applicable to the sludge management method being
used;
      (11)   Any wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, including, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts sufficient color to the treatment
plant’s effluent to render the waters injurious to public health or secondary
recreation or to aquatic life and wildlife or to adversely affect the
palatability of fish or aesthetic quality or impair the receiving waters for
any designated uses;
      (12)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes
except as specifically approved by the town in compliance with applicable state
or federal regulations;
      (13)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, non-contact cooling water and unpolluted industrial wastewater, unless
specifically authorized by the town;
      (14)   Fats, oils or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than 100 mg/l;
      (15)   Any sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      (16)   Any medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the town
in a Wastewater Discharge Permit;
      (17)   Any material containing ammonia, ammonia salts or other chelating
agents which will produce metallic complexes that interfere with the municipal
wastewater system;
      (18)   Any material that would be identified as hazardous waste according
to 40 C.F.R. Part 261 if not disposed of in a sewer except as may be
specifically authorized by the town;
      (19)   Any wastewater causing the treatment plant effluent to violate
State Water Quality Standards for toxic substances as described in 15A NCAC
2B.0200;
      (20)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant’s effluent to fail a toxicity test;
      (21)   Recognizable portions of the human or animal anatomy;
      (22)   Any wastes containing detergents, surface active agents or other
substances which may cause excessive foaming in the municipal wastewater
system; and
      (23)   At no time, shall 2 successive readings on an explosion hazard
meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or at any point in the
system) be more than 5% nor any single reading over 10% of the lower explosive
limit (LEL) of the meter.
   (C)   Storage.  Pollutants, substances, wastewater or other wastes
prohibited by this section shall not be processed or stored in such a manner
that they could be discharged to the municipal wastewater system. All floor
drains located in process or materials storage areas must discharge to the
industrial user’s pretreatment facility before connecting with the system.
   (D)   Interference.  When the town determines that a user(s) is contributing
to the POTW, any of the above enumerated substances in such amounts which may
cause or contribute to interference of POTW operation or pass through, the town
shall:
      (1)   Advise the user(s) of the potential impact of the contribution on
the POTW in accordance with §
52.110; and
      (2)   Take appropriate actions in accordance with §§ 52.045 and 52.046
for such user to protect the POTW from interference or pass through.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 52.021  NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Users subject to Categorical Pretreatment Standards are required to comply
with applicable standards as set out in 40 C.F.R. Chapter 1, Subchapter N,
Parts 405-471 and incorporated herein.
   (A)   Where a Categorical Pretreatment Standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the town
may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance with 40 C.F.R.
403.6(c).
   (B)   When wastewater subject to a Categorical Pretreatment Standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the town shall impose
an alternate limit using the combined waste stream formula in 40 C.F.R. 403.6
(e).
   (C)   A user may obtain a variance from a Categorical Pretreatment Standard
if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive provisions in
40 C.F.R. 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally
different from the factors considered by EPA when developing the Categorical
Pretreatment Standard.
   (D)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. 403.15.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 52.022  LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   An industrial waste survey is required prior to a user discharging
wastewater containing in excess of the following average discharge limits.
BOD5                       250    mg/1
COD                        500    mg/1
TSS                        250    mg/1
Fats, Oil and Grease (FOG) 50     mg/1
T.D.S.                     1,000  mg/1
Total Nitrogen             40     mg/1
Total Phosphorus           8      mg/1
NH 3                       25     mg/l
Arsenic                    0.003  mg/1
Cadmium                    0.003  mg/1
Chromium                   0.05   mg/l (total chromium)
Copper                     0.061  mg/1
Cyanide                    0.015  mg/1
Lead                       0.049  mg/1
Mercury                    0.0003 mg/1
Nickel                     0.021  mg/1
Silver                     0.005  mg/1
Zinc                       0.175  mg/l
 
   (B)   Industrial Waste Survey information will be used to develop user-
specific local limits when necessary to ensure that the POTW’s maximum
allowable headworks loading is not exceeded for particular pollutants of
concern. User-specific local limits for appropriate pollutants of concern shall
be included in wastewater permits. The town may impose mass based limits in
addition to, or in place of, concentration based limits.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 52.023  STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 52.024  RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The town reserves the right to establish limitations and requirements which
are more stringent than those required by either state or federal regulation if
deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented in §
52.001 or the general and specific prohibitions in §
52.020, as is allowed by 40 C.F.R. 403.4.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 52.025  DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the National
Categorical Pretreatment Standards, unless expressly authorized by an
applicable pretreatment standard, or in any other pollutant-specific limitation
developed by the town or the state.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 52.026  PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Pretreatment facilities.  Users shall provide wastewater treatment as
necessary to comply with this chapter and wastewater permits issued under §
52.046 and shall achieve compliance with all National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out in §
52.020 within the time limitations as specified by EPA, the state, or the town,
whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for compliance shall be
provided, operated, and maintained at the user's expense. Detailed plans which
shall include a process flow diagram and design calculations showing the
pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the town
for review, and shall be approved by the town as recommended by the town's
Engineer before construction of the facility. The review of such plans and
operating procedures shall in no way relieve the user from the responsibility
of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the
town under the provisions of this chapter. Any subsequent changes in the
pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported to and be
approved by the town prior to the user's initiation of the changes.
   (B)   Additional pretreatment measures.
      (1)   Whenever deemed necessary, the town may require users to restrict
their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain wastewater be
discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate points of
discharge, separate sewage waste streams from industrial waste streams and such
other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine the
user’s compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The town may require any person discharging into the POTW to
install and maintain, on his or her property and at his or her expense, a
suitable storage and flow control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A
Wastewater Discharge Permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
      (3)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the town, they are necessary for the proper handling of wastewater
containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand; except that such
interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interception
units shall be of the type and capacity approved by the town and shall be so
located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such interceptors
shall be inspected, cleaned and repaired regularly, as needed, by the user at
his or her expense.
      (4)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 52.027  ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   The town shall evaluate whether each significant industrial user needs
a plan or other action to control and prevent slug discharges and accidental
discharges as defined in §
52.002 (A). All SIUs must be evaluated within 1 year of being designated an
SIU. The town may require any user to develop, submit for approval, and
implement such a plan or other specific action. Alternatively, the town may
develop such a plan for any user.
   (B)   All SIUs are required to notify the POTW immediately of any changes at
its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental discharge,
discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-customary batch discharge,
or a slug load. Also see §§
52.059 and
52.060.
   (C)   An accidental discharge/slug control plan shall address, at a minimum,
the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the town of any accidental or
slug discharge, as required by §
52.060; and
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 52.028  HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the town, and at such times as are established by the town. Such
waste shall not violate §§
52.020 through
52.028 or any other requirements established by the town. The town may require
septic tank waste haulers to obtain Wastewater Discharge Permits.
   (B)   The town shall require haulers of industrial waste to obtain
Wastewater Discharge Permits. The town may require generators of hauled
industrial waste to obtain Wastewater Discharge Permits. The town also may
prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial waste. The discharge of hauled
industrial waste is subject to all other requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the town. No load may be discharged without prior consent of the
town. The town may collect samples of each hauled load to ensure compliance
with applicable standards. The town may require the industrial waste hauler to
provide a waste analysis of any load prior to discharge.
   (D)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for every
load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste and volume and characteristics of wastes. The
form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste constituents
and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
FEES
§ 52.035  PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the recovery of costs from
users of the wastewater disposal system of the town for the implementation of
the program established herein. The applicable charges or fees shall be set
forth in a schedule of sewer use charges and fees by the town and approved by
the Town Council. A copy of these charges and fees will be made available from
the town.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 52.036  USER CHARGES.
   A user charge shall be levied on all users including, but not limited to,
persons, firms, corporations or governmental entities that discharge, cause or
permit the discharge of sewage into the POTW.
   (A)   The user charge shall reflect, at least, the cost of debt service and
operation and maintenance (including replacement) of the POTW.
   (B)   Each user shall pay its proportionate cost based on volume of flow.
   (C)   The Town Manager shall review annually the sewage contributions of
users, the total costs of debt service, operation and maintenance of the POTW
and will make recommendations to the Town Council for adjustments in the
schedule of charges and fees as necessary.
   (D)   Charges for flow to the POTW not directly attributable to the users
shall be distributed among all users of the POTW based upon the volume of flow
of the users.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 52.037  SURCHARGES.
   The amount of the surcharges will be based upon the volume of flow and the
character and concentration of the constituents of the wastewater:
   (A)   The volume of flow used in determining the total discharge of
wastewater for payment of user charges and surcharges shall be based on the
following:
      (1)   Metered water consumption as shown in the records of meter readings
maintained by the town; or
      (2)   If required by the town or at the individual dischargers option,
other flow monitoring devices which measure the actual volume of wastewater
discharged to the sewer. Such devices shall be accessible and safely located,
and the measuring system shall be installed in accordance with plans approved
by the town. The metering system shall be installed and maintained at the
users’ expense according to arrangements that may be made with the town.
      (3)   Where any user procures all or part of his or her water supply from
sources other than the town, the user shall install and maintain at his or her
own expense a flow measuring device of a type approved by the town. The flow
measuring device shall be available for inspection and reading at all times by
town utilities staff.
   (B)   The character and concentration of the constituents of the wastewater
used in determining surcharges shall be determined by samples collected and
analyzed by the town. Samples shall be collected in such a manner as to be
representative of the actual discharge and shall be analyzed using procedures
set forth in 40 C.F.R. Part 136.
   (C)   The determination of the character and concentration of the
constituents of the wastewater discharge by the town or his or her duly
appointed representatives shall be binding as a basis for charges.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 52.038  PRETREATMENT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION CHARGES.
   The schedule of charges and fees adopted by the town may include charges and
fees for:
   (A)   Reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the Pretreatment
Program;
   (B)   Monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
   (C)   Reviewing slug control plans, including accidental and/or slug load
discharge procedures and construction plans and specifications;
   (D)   Permitting; and
   (E)   Other fees as the town may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements of the Pretreatment Program.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE
§ 52.045  WASTEWATER DISCHARGERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect or discharge to the POTW
without first obtaining the permission of the town. When requested by the town,
a user must submit information on the nature and characteristics of its
wastewater within 30 days of the request. The town is authorized to prepare a
form for this purpose and may periodically require users to update this
information.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 52.046  WASTEWATER PERMITS.
   All significant industrial users shall obtain a significant industrial user
permit prior to the commencement of discharge to the POTW. Existing industrial
users who are determined by the town to be significant industrial users shall
obtain a significant industrial user permit within 180 days of receiving
notification of the town’s determination. Industrial users who do not fit the
significant industrial user criteria may, at the discretion of the town, be
required to obtain a Wastewater Discharge Permit for non-significant industrial
users.
   (A)   Significant industrial user determination.  All persons proposing to
discharge non-domestic wastewater, or proposing to change the volume or
characteristics of an existing discharge of non-domestic wastewater shall
request from the town a significant industrial user determination. If the town
determines or suspects that the proposed discharge fits the significant
industrial user criteria, he or she will require that a significant industrial
user permit application be filed.
   (B)   Significant industrial user permit application.  Users required to
obtain a significant industrial user permit shall complete and file with the
town, an application in the form prescribed by the town, and accompanied by an
application fee in the amount prescribed in the schedule of charges and fees.
Significant industrial users shall apply for a significant industrial user
permit within 90 days after notification of the town’s determination in
division (A) above. In support of the application, the user shall submit, in
units and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following information:
      (1)   Name, address and location, (if different from the address);
      (2)   Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) codes for pretreatment,
the industry as a whole and any processes for which Categorical Pretreatment
Standards have been promulgated;
      (3)   Analytical data on wastewater constituents and characteristics
including, but not limited to, those mentioned in §§
52.020 through
52.028, any of the priority pollutants (§ 307(a) of the Act) which the
applicant knows or suspects are present in the discharge as determined by a
reliable analytical laboratory, and any other pollutant of concern to the POTW;
sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with procedures
established by the EPA pursuant to § 304(g) of the Act and contained in 40
C.F.R., Part 136, as amended and as required in Section 5.10 and 5.11;
      (4)   Time and duration of the indirect discharge;
      (5)   Average daily and 30 minute peak wastewater flow rates, including
daily, monthly and seasonal variations if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers, floor drains, sewer connections, direction of flow and
appurtenances by the size, location and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be accidentally or
intentionally discharged;
      (8)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by any town, state or federal pretreatment
standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional operation
and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional pretreatment is required for the user
to meet applicable pretreatment standards;
      (9)   If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be required to meet the
pretreatment standards; the shortest schedule by which the user will provide
such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall not be
longer than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment
standard. The following conditions apply to this schedule:
         (a)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards. No increment in the schedule shall
exceed 9 months; and
         (b)   No later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
town including, at a minimum, whether or not it complied with the increment of
progress, the reason for any delay, and if appropriate, the steps being taken
by the user to return to the established schedule. In no event shall more than
9 months elapse between such progress reports to the town.
      (10)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production;
      (11)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
      (12)   Number and type of employees, and hours of operation of plant and
proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system;
      (13)   If subject to a categorical standard, a baseline monitoring report
in accordance with 40 C.F.R. 403.12(b) and 15A NCAC 2H .0908(a), as outlined in
§
52.055;
      (14)   Any other information as may be deemed by the town to be necessary
to evaluate the permit application.
   (C)   Application signatories and certification.  All Wastewater Discharge
Permit applications and user reports must be signed by the current authorized
representative of the user on file with the town as defined in §
52.002(A) and contain the following certification statement:
      “I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations.”
   (D)   Application review and evaluation.  The town will evaluate the data
furnished by the user and may require additional information.
      (1)   The town is authorized to accept applications for the town and
shall refer all applications to the POTW staff and town's Engineer for review
and evaluation.
      (2)   Within 30 days of receipt, the town shall acknowledge and accept
the complete application; or if not complete, shall return the application to
the applicant with a statement of what additional information is required.
   (E)    Tentative determination and draft permit.
      (1)   The POTW staff and town's Engineer shall conduct a review of the
application and an on-site inspection of the significant industrial user,
including any pretreatment facilities, and shall prepare a written evaluation
and tentative determination to issue or deny the significant industrial user
permit.
      (2)   If the staff’s and/or town’s Engineer’s tentative determination in
division (E)(1) above is to issue the permit, the following additional
determinations shall be made in writing:
         (a)   Proposed discharge limitations for those pollutants proposed to
be limited;
         (b)   A proposed schedule of compliance, including interim dates and
requirements, for meeting the proposed limitations; and
         (c)   A brief description of any other proposed special conditions
which will have significant impact upon the discharge described in the
application.
      (3)   The staff shall organize the determinations made pursuant to
divisions (E)(1) and (2) above and the general permit conditions of the town
into a significant industrial user permit.
   (F)   Permit synopsis.  A fact sheet providing a brief synopsis of the
application shall be prepared by the POTW staff for submission to the applicant
and the approval authority and shall be made available to the public upon
request. The contents of such fact sheets shall include at least the following
information:
      (1)   A sketch and detailed description of the industrial facilities and
pretreatment facilities including the location of all points of discharge to
the POTW and all established compliance monitoring points;
      (2)   A quantitative description of the discharge described in the
application which includes at least the following:
         (a)   The rate or frequency of the proposed discharge; if the
discharge is continuous, the average daily flow;
         (b)   The actual average daily discharge in pounds per day of any
limited pollutant and any pollutant identified in the application as known or
suspected present; and
         (c)   The basis for the pretreatment limitations including the
documentation of any calculations in applying Categorical Pretreatment
Standards.
   (G)   Final action on significant industrial user permit applications.
      (1)   The town shall take final action on all applications not later than
90 days following receipt of a complete application.
      (2)   The town is authorized to:
         (a)   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing such
conditions as are necessary to effectuate the purposes of this chapter and G.S.
§ 143-215.1;
         (b)   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing time
schedules for achieving compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements;
         (c)   Modify any permit upon not less than 60 days notice and pursuant
to division (I) below;
         (d)   Revoke any permit pursuant to §
52.110;
         (e)   Suspend a permit pursuant to §
52.110; and
         (f)   Deny a permit application when, in the opinion of the town, such
discharge may cause or contribute to pass-through or interference of the
wastewater treatment plant or where necessary to effectuate the purposes of
G.S. § 143-215.1.
   (H)   Hearings.  The town may conduct hearings in accordance with its
regular hearing procedure.
      (1)   Initial adjudicatory hearing.  An applicant whose permit is denied,
or is granted subject to conditions he or she deems unacceptable, a permittee/
user assessed a civil penalty under §
52.999 or 1 issued an administrative order under §
52.110 shall have the right to an adjudicatory hearing before a hearing officer
designated by the town upon making written demand, identifying the specific
issues to be contested to the town within 30 days following receipt of the
significant industrial user permit, civil penalty assessment or administrative
order. Unless such written demand is made within the time specified herein, the
action shall be final and binding. The Town Manager or designee shall make a
final decision on the contested permit, penalty or order within 45 days of the
receipt of the written demand for a hearing. The town shall transmit a copy of
the hearing officer’s decision by registered or certified mail.
         (a)   New permits.  Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
General Courts of Justice, of the terms or conditions of a newly issued permit,
the terms and conditions of the entire permit are stayed and the permit is not
in effect until either the conclusion of judicial review or until the parties
reach a mutual resolution.
         (b)   Renewed permits.  Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
General Courts of Justice, of the terms or conditions of a renewed permit, the
terms and conditions of the existing permit remain in effect until either the
conclusion of judicial review or until the parties reach a mutual resolution.
      (2)   Final appeal hearing. Any decision of a hearing officer made as a
result of an adjudicatory hearing held under division (H)(1) above may be
appealed to the Council serving the town upon filing a written demand within 10
days of receipt of notice of the decision. Hearings held under this division
shall be conducted in accordance with local hearing procedures as established
by local ordinance. Failure to make written demand within the time specified
herein shall bar further appeal. The Council serving the town shall make a
final decision on the appeal within 90 days of the date the appeal was filed
and shall transmit a written copy of its decision by registered or certified
mail.
      (3)   Official record. When a final decision is issued under division (H)
(2) above, the Council serving the town shall prepare an official record of the
case that includes:
         (a)   All notices, motions and other like pleadings;
         (b)   A copy of all documentary evidence introduced;
         (c)   A certified transcript of all testimony taken, if testimony is
transcribed. If testimony is taken and not transcribed, then a narrative
summary of any testimony taken; and
         (d)   A copy of the final decision of the Council or Board serving the
town.
      (4)   Judicial review.  Any person against whom a final order or decision
of the Council or Board serving the town is entered, pursuant to the hearing
conducted under division (H)(2) above, may seek judicial review of the order or
decision by filing a written petition within 30 days after receipt of notice by
registered or certified mail of the order or decision, but not thereafter, with
the Superior Court of Johnston County along with a copy to the town. Within 30
days after receipt of the copy of the petition of judicial review, the Council
serving the town shall transmit to the reviewing court the original or a
certified copy of the official record.
   (I)   Permit modifications.
      (1)   Modifications of permits shall be subject to the same procedural
requirements as the issuance of permits except as listed below. Any changes or
new conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for
compliance.
         (a)   Changes in the ownership of the discharge when no other change
in the permit is indicated;
         (b)   A single modification of any compliance schedule not in excess
of 4 months; and
         (c)   Modification of compliance schedules (construction schedules) in
permits for new sources where the new source will not begin to discharge until
control facilities are operational.
      (2)   Within 9 months of the promulgation of a National Categorical
Pretreatment Standard, the Wastewater Discharge Permit of users subject to such
standards shall be revised to require compliance with such standard within the
time frame prescribed by such standard. Where a user, subject to a National
Categorical Pretreatment Standard, has not previously submitted an application
for a Wastewater Discharge Permit as required by division (B) above, the user
shall apply for a wastewater Discharge Permit within 180 days after the
promulgation of the applicable National Categorical Pretreatment Standard.
      (3)   A request for a modification by the permittee shall constitute a
waiver of the 60 day notice required by G.S. § 143-215.1(b) for modifications.
   (J)   Permit conditions.
      (1)   The town shall have the authority to grant a permit with such
conditions attached as he or she believes necessary to achieve the purpose of
this chapter and G.S. § 143-215.1. Wastewater permits shall contain, but are
not limited to, the following:
         (a)   A statement of duration (in no case more than 5 years);
         (b)   A statement of non-transferability;
         (c)   Applicable effluent limits based on categorical standards or
local limits or both;
         (d)   Applicable monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification and
record keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification
of pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency and sample
type based on federal, state and local law;
         (e)   Requirements for notifying the POTW in the event of an
accidental discharge or slug load as defined in §
52.002(A);
         (f)   Requirements to implement a plan or other controls for
prevention of accidental discharges and/or slug loads as defined in §
52.002(A), if determined by the town to be necessary for the user; and
         (g)   Requirements for immediately notifying the POTW of any changes
at its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental
discharges, or slug load as defined in §
52.002(A). Also see §§
52.059 and
52.060;
         (h)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements and any applicable
compliance schedule.
      (2)   In addition, permits may contain, but are not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, and/or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
         (b)   Limits on the instantaneous, daily and monthly average and/or
maximum concentration, mass or other measure of identified wastewater
pollutants or properties;
         (c)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology or
construction of appropriate containment devices and the like, designed to
reduce, eliminate or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the treatment
works;
         (d)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the municipal wastewater system;
         (e)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the system;
         (f)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment;
         (g)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include
sampling locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards for
tests, and reporting schedules;
         (h)   Requirements for immediate reporting of any instance of
noncompliance and for automatic re-sampling and reporting within 30 days where
self-monitoring indicates a violation(s);
         (i)   Compliance schedules for meeting pretreatment standards and
requirements;
         (j)   Requirements for submission of periodic self-monitoring or
special notification reports;
         (k)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plans and records
relating to wastewater discharges as specified in § 52.080 and affording the
town, or his or her representatives, access thereto;
         (l)   Requirements for prior notification and approval by the town of
any new introduction of wastewater pollutants or of any significant change in
the volume or character of the wastewater prior to introduction in the system;
         (m)   Requirements for the prior notification and approval by the town
of any change in the manufacturing and/or pretreatment process used by the
permittee;
         (n)   A statement that compliance with the permit does not relieve the
permittee of responsibility for compliance with all applicable federal and
state pretreatment standards, including those which become effective during the
terms of the permit; and
         (o)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the town to ensure
compliance with this chapter, and state and federal laws, rules and
regulations.
   (K)   Permit duration.  Permits shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed 5 years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year or
may be stated to expire on a specific date.
   (L)   Permit transfer.  Wastewater permits are issued to a specific user for
a specific operation. A Wastewater Discharge Permit shall not be reassigned or
transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises or a new or
changed operation.
   (M)   Permit re-issuance.  A significant industrial user shall apply for
permit re-issuance by submitting a complete permit application in accordance
with this section a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the existing
permit.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 52.055  BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a Categorical
Pretreatment Standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 C.F.R. 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the
POTW shall submit to the town a report which contains the information listed in
division (B) below. At least 90 days prior to commencement of their discharge,
new sources, and sources that become categorical users subsequent to the
promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, shall submit to the town a
report which contains the information listed in division (B) below. A new
source shall report the method of pretreatment it intends to use to meet
applicable categorical standards. A new source also shall give estimates of its
anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
   (B)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
      (1)   Identifying information.  The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner.
      (2)   Environmental permits.  A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility.
      (3)   Description of operations.  A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by such user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes.
      (4)    Flow measurement.   Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula set out in 40 C.F.R. 403.6(e).
      (5)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The Categorical Pretreatment Standards applicable to each
regulated process.
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the town, of
regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process.
Instantaneous, daily maximum and long-term average concentrations, or mass,
where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of daily
operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in §
52.064.
         (c)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in §
52.065 and 40 CFR 403.12(b) and (g), including 40 CFR 403.12(g)(4).
      (6)   Certification.  A statement, reviewed by the user’s current
authorized representative as defined in §
52.002(A) and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
      (7)   Compliance schedule.  If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion date
in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for
the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to this
section must meet the requirements set out in §
52.056.
      (8)   Signature and certification.  All baseline monitoring reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with §
52.046(C).
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 52.056  COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
§
52.055(B)(7).
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
   (B)   No increment referred to above shall exceed 9 months;
   (C)   The user shall submit a progress report to the town no later than 14
days following each date in the schedule and the final date of compliance
including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the increment of
progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps being taken
by the user to return to the established schedule; and
   (D)   In no event shall more than 9 months elapse between such progress
reports to the town.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 52.057  REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD;
DEADLINE.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
Categorical Pretreatment Standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the town a
report containing the information described in §
52.055(B)(4) through (B)(6). For users subject to equivalent mass or
concentration limits established in accordance with the procedures in 40 C.F.R.
403.6(c), this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user’s long-
term production rate. For all other users subject to Categorical Pretreatment
Standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include the
user’s actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance
reports must be signed and certified in accordance with §
52.046(C).
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 52.058  PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   The town may sample and analyze user discharges in lieu of requiring the
users to conduct sampling and analysis.
   (A)   All significant industrial users shall, at a frequency determined by
the town but in no case less than once every six months, submit a report
indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in the discharge which
are limited by pretreatment standards and the applicable flows for the
reporting period. Sampling and analysis must be performed in accordance with
procedures set out in §§
52.064 and
52.065. All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in
accordance with §
52.046(C).
   (B)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the town, using the
procedures prescribed in §§
52.064 and
52.065, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 52.059  REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   Each user must notify the town of any planned significant changes to the
user’s operations or system which might alter the nature, quality or volume of
its wastewater at least 30 days before the change. See Section 5.6(d) for other
reporting requirements.
   (A)   The town may require the user to submit such information as may be
deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the submission of
a Wastewater Discharge Permit application under §
52.046.
   (B)   The town may issue a Wastewater Discharge Permit under §
52.046 or modify an existing Wastewater Discharge Permit under §
52.046 in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
   (C)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but are
not limited to, flow increases of 20% or greater and the discharge of any
previously unreported pollutants.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 52.060  REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-
customary batch discharge or a slug load as defined in §
52.002(A), that may cause potential problems for the POTW, the user shall
immediately telephone and notify the town of the incident. This notification
shall include the location of the discharge, type of waste, concentration and
volume, if known, and corrective actions taken by the user.
   (B)   Within 5 days following such discharge, the user shall, unless waived
by the town, submit a detailed written report describing the cause(s) of the
discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent similar future
occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any expense, loss,
damage or other liability which may be incurred as a result of damage to the
POTW, natural resources or any other damage to person or property; nor shall
such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties or other liability
which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees, who may cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
   (D)   All SIUs are required to notify the POTW immediately of any changes at
its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental discharge,
discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-customary batch discharge,
or a slug load as defined in §
52.002(A).
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 52.061  REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS.
   All users not required to obtain a Wastewater Discharge Permit shall provide
appropriate reports to the town as the town may require.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 52.062  NOTICE OF VIOLATION/REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   (A)   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must
notify the town within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation. The user
shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the
repeat analysis to the town within 30 days after becoming aware of the
violation. If allowed by the town, the user is not required to resample:
      (1)   If the town monitors at the user's facility at least once a month;
or
      (2)   If the town samples between the user's initial sampling and when
the user receives the results of this sampling.
   (B)   If the town does not require the user to perform any self-monitoring
and the POTW sampling of the user indicates a violation, the town shall repeat
the sampling and obtain the results of the repeat analysis within 30 days after
becoming aware of the violations, unless one of the following occurs:
      (1)   The town monitors at the user's facility at least once a month; or
      (2)   The town samples the user between their initial sampling and when
the POTW receives the results of this initial sampling; or
      (3)   The town requires the user to perform sampling and submit the
results to the town within the 30 day deadline of the POTW becoming aware of
the violation.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 52.063  NOTIFICATION OF THE DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   The town prohibits the discharge of any hazardous wastes without
notification to and approval of the town.
   (A)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall notify
the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
C.F.R. Part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste
as set forth in 40 C.F.R. Part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number and the type
of discharge (continuous, batch or other). If the user discharges more than 100
kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the notification also
shall contain the following information to the extent such information is known
and readily available to the user; an identification of the hazardous
constituents contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass and
concentration of such constituents in the wastestream discharge during the
calendar month and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the wastestream
expected to be discharged during the following 12 months. All notifications
must take place no later than 180 days after the discharge commences. Any
notification under this section need be submitted only once for each hazardous
waste discharge. However, notifications of changed conditions must be submitted
under §
52.059. The notification requirement in this section does not apply to
pollutants already reported by users subject to Categorical Pretreatment
Standards under the self-monitoring requirements of §§
52.055,
52.057 and
52.058.
   (B)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of division (A) above,
during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15 kilograms of
hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specific in
40 C.F.R. 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15 kilograms of non-
acute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity of acute
hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires a
1-time notification. Subsequent months during which the user discharges more
than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require additional
notification.
   (C)   In the case of any new regulation under § 3001 of RCRA identifying
additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any additional
substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the town, the EPA Regional
Waste Management Waste Division Director and state hazardous waste authorities
of the discharge of such substance within 90 days of the effective date of such
regulations.
   (D)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
   (E)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit issued
thereunder or any applicable federal or state law.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 52.064  ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as
part of a Wastewater Discharge Permit application or report shall be performed
in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. Part 136, unless
otherwise specified in an applicable Categorical Pretreatment Standard. If 40
C.F.R. Part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the
pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must be performed in accordance
with procedures approved by EPA.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 52.065  GRAB AND COMPOSITE SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   (A)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user's discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (B)   Grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and
grease, sulfide, volatile organic compounds, and any other pollutants as
required by 40 C.F.R. 136. The POTW shall determine the number of grabs
necessary to be representative of the user's discharge. See 40 C.F.R. 403.12(g)
(5) for additional grab sample number requirements for BMR and 90 Day
Compliance Reports. Additionally, the town may allow collection of multiple
grabs during a 24 hour period which are composited prior to analysis as allowed
under 40 C.F.R. 136.
   (C)   Composite samples. All wastewater composite samples shall be collected
with a minimum of hourly aliquots or grabs for each hour that there is a
discharge. All wastewater composite samples shall be collected using flow
proportional composite collection techniques, unless time-proportional
composite sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the town. When authorizing
time-proportional composites or grabs, the samples must be representative and
the decision to allow the alternative sampling must be documented.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
TIMING
§ 52.070  WRITTEN REPORTS.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
RECORD KEEPING
§ 52.080  REQUIREMENTS.
   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall retain,
and make available for inspection and copying, all records of information
obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this chapter and any
additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities
undertaken by the user independent of such requirements. Records shall include
the date, exact place, method and time of sampling, and the name of the person
(s) taking the samples, the dates analyses were performed, who performed the
analyses, the analytical techniques or methods used and the results of such
analyses. These records shall remain available for a period of at least 3
years. This period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any
litigation concerning the user or the town, or where the user has been
specifically notified of a longer retention period by the town.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
ELECTRONIC REPORTING
§ 52.090  COMPLIANCE MONITORING.
   The town may develop procedures for receipt of electronic reports for any
reporting requirements of this chapter. Such procedures shall comply with 40
C.F.R. Part 3. These procedures shall be enforceable under Section 8 of this
chapter.
(Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 52.091  MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The town requires the user to provide and operate at the user’s own
expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling and flow
measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems. The
monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user’s premises, but the
town may, when such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on
the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public street or sidewalk
area and located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked
vehicles.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility
to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The
facility, sampling and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in
a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (C)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the requirements of
the town and all applicable local construction standards and specifications.
Construction shall be completed within 90 days following written notification
by the town.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 52.092  INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The town will inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether the
purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being complied
with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow town, approval authority and EPA or their representative
ready access at all reasonable times to all parts of the premises for the
purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and copying or in the
performance of any of their duties. The town, approval authority and EPA shall
have the right to set up on the user’s property such devices as are necessary
to conduct sampling, inspection, compliance monitoring and/or metering
operations. Where a user has security measures in force which would require
proper identification and clearance before entry into his or her premises, the
user shall make necessary arrangements with his or her security guards so that
upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the town, approval
authority and EPA will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes
of performing his or her specific responsibilities. Denial of the town’s,
approval authority’s or EPA’s access to the user’s premises shall be a
violation of this chapter. Unreasonable delays may constitute denial of access.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 52.093  SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If the town, approval authority, or EPA has been refused access to a
building, structure, or property, or any part thereof, and is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program of the town designed to verify compliance with
this chapter or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall
public health, safety and welfare of the community, then the town, approval
authority, or EPA may seek issuance of a search warrant from the court having
jurisdiction within the town.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
§ 52.100  INFORMATION MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections shall
be available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction
unless the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the town that the release of such information would divulge
information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade
secrets of the user. Any such request must be asserted at the time of
submission of the information or data.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public, but shall be made available upon
written request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Permit, Non-Discharge
Permit and/or the pretreatment programs; provided, however, that such portions
of a report shall be available for use by the state or any state agency in
judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the
report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be recognized as
confidential information.
   (C)   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall
be made available to officials of the approval authority and EPA upon request.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.110  ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Notification of violation.  Whenever the town finds that any
industrial user has violated or is violating this chapter, wastewater permit or
any prohibition, limitation or requirements contained therein or any other
pretreatment requirement, the town may serve upon such a person a written
notice stating the nature of the violation. Within 30 days from the date of
this notice, an explanation for the violation and a plan for the satisfactory
correction thereof shall be submitted to the town by the user. Submission of
this plan does not relieve the discharger of liability for any violations
occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
   (B)   Consent orders.  The town is hereby empowered to enter into consent
orders, assurances of voluntary compliance or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with the person responsible for the noncompliance.
Such orders will include specific action to be taken by the discharger to
correct the noncompliance within a time period also specified by the order.
Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as an administrative order
issued pursuant to division (D) below.
   (C)   Show cause hearing.  The town may order any industrial user who causes
or is responsible for an unauthorized discharge, has violated this chapter or
is in noncompliance with a Wastewater Discharge Permit to show cause why a
proposed enforcement action should not be taken. In the event the town
determines that a show cause order should be issued, a notice shall be served
on the user specifying the time and place for the hearing, the proposed
enforcement action, the reasons for such action and a request that the user
show cause why this proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice
of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail
(return receipt requested) at least 10 days before the hearing. Service may be
made on any agent or officer of a corporation. The town shall review the
evidence presented at the hearing and determine whether the proposed
enforcement action is appropriate. A show cause hearing under this section is
not a prerequisite to the assessment of a civil penalty under §
52.999 nor is any action or inaction taken by the town under this section
subject to an administrative appeal under §
52.046(H).
   (D)   Administrative orders.  When the town finds that an industrial user
has violated or continues to violate this chapter, permits or orders issued
hereunder or any other pretreatment requirement, the town may issue an order to
cease and desist all such violations and direct those persons in noncompliance
to do any of the following:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements;
      (2)   Comply in accordance with a compliance time schedule set forth in
the order;
      (3)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action in the event of a
continuing or threatened violation; and
      (4)   Disconnect unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or other
related appurtenances are installed and properly operated within a specified
time period.
   (E)   Emergency suspensions.
      (1)   The town may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or
wastewater permit when such suspension is necessary in order to stop an actual
or threatened discharge which presents or may present an imminent or
substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or the
environment, interferes with the POTW or causes the POTW to violate any
condition of its NPDES or Non-Discharge Permit.
      (2)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service and/or the wastewater permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the
contribution. A hearing will be held within 15 days of the notice of suspension
to determine whether the suspension may be lifted or the user’s Waste Discharge
Permit terminated. In the event of a failure to comply voluntarily with the
suspension order, the town shall take such steps as deemed necessary including
immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to
the POTW system or endangerment to any individuals. The town shall reinstate
the wastewater permit and the wastewater treatment service upon proof of the
elimination of the noncompliant discharge. The industrial user shall submit a
detailed written statement describing the causes of the harmful contribution
and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence to the town prior to
the date of the above-described hearing.
   (F)   Termination of permit or permission to discharge. 
      (1)   The town may revoke a wastewater discharge permit or permission to
discharge for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
         (a)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his or her discharge;
         (b)   Failure to report significant changes in operations, or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
         (c)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the
purpose of inspection or monitoring; or
         (d)   Violation of conditions of the permit or permission to
discharge, conditions of this chapter, or any applicable state and federal
regulations.
      (2)   Noncompliant industrial users will be notified of the proposed
termination of their wastewater permit and will be offered an opportunity to
show cause under §
52.110 why the proposed action should not be taken.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 52.111  OTHER AVAILABLE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Remedies, in addition to those previously mentioned in this chapter,
are available to the town who may use any single 1 or combination against a
noncompliant user.
   (B)   Additional available remedies include, but are not limited to:
      (1)    Criminal violations.   The District Attorney for Johnston County
may, at the request of the Town Council, prosecute noncompliant users who
violate the provisions of G.S. § 143-215.6B. (Note: Under North Carolina law,
it is a crime to negligently violate any term, condition or requirement of a
pretreatment permit, or negligently fail to apply for a pretreatment permit,
issued by local governments (G.S. § 143-215.6B(f)), to knowingly and willfully
violate any term, condition or requirement of a pretreatment permit, or
knowingly and willfully fail to apply for a pretreatment permit, issued by
local governments (G.S. § 143-215.6B(g)), to knowingly violate any term,
condition or requirement of a pretreatment permit issued by local governments,
or knowingly fail to apply for a pretreatment permit, knowing at the time that
a person is placed in imminent danger of death or serious bodily injury, (G.S.
§ 143-215.6B(h)) and to falsify information required under G.S. Ch. 143, Art.
21 (G.S. § 143-215.6B(i)).
      (2)   Injunctive relief.  Whenever a user is in violation of the
provisions of this chapter or an order or permit issued hereunder, the town,
through the Town Attorney, may petition the Superior Court of Justice for the
issuance of a restraining order or a preliminary and permanent injunction which
restrains or compels the activities in question.
      (3)   Water supply severance.  Whenever an industrial user is in
violation of the provisions of this chapter or an order or permit issued
hereunder, water service to the industrial user may be severed and service will
only recommence, at the user’s expense, after it has satisfactorily
demonstrated ability to comply.
      (4)   Public nuisances.  Any violation of the prohibitions or effluent
limitations of this chapter or of a permit or order issued hereunder, is hereby
declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed by the
town. Any person(s) creating a public nuisance shall be subject to the
provisions of the appropriate ordinances of the town governing such nuisances,
including reimbursing the POTW for any costs incurred in removing, abating or
remedying the nuisance.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 52.112  REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The town may
take any, all or any combination of these actions against a noncompliant user.
Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in accordance with the
enforcement response plan of the town. However, the town may take other action
against any user when the circumstances warrant. Further, the town is empowered
to take more than 1 enforcement action against any noncompliant user.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
ANNUAL PUBLICATION OF SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE
§ 52.120  PUBLICATION.
   At least annually, the town shall publish in a newspaper of general
circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdiction(s)
served by the POTW, a list of those industrial users which were found to be in
significant noncompliance, also referred to as reportable noncompliance, in 15A
NCAC 2H .0903(b)(10), with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements,
during the previous 12 months.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS
§ 52.130  UPSET.
   (A)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with Categorical Pretreatment Standards if the requirements
of division (B) below, are met.
   (B)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed contemporaneous operating logs or other
relevant evidence that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      (3)   The user has submitted the following information to the town within
24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this information is provided
orally, a written submission must be provided within 5 days):
         (a)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
         (b)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (C)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (D)   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
Categorical Pretreatment Standards.
   (E)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with Categorical Pretreatment Standards upon
reduction, loss or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 52.131  PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS DEFENSE.
   A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought
against it for noncompliance with the general prohibitions in § 52.020(A) or
the specific prohibitions in § 52.020(B)(2), (3), and (5) through (7) if it can
prove that it did not know, or have reason to know, that its discharge, alone
or in conjunction with discharges from other sources, would cause pass through
or interference and that either:
   (A)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was in
compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through or
interference; or
   (B)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the user’s prior discharge when the town was
regularly in compliance with its NPDES Permit, and in the case of interference,
was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal requirements.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 52.132  BYPASS.
   (A)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause pretreatment
standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is for essential
maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not subject to
the provisions of divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   (1)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the town, at least 10 days before the date of the
bypass, if possible.
      (2)   A user shall submit oral notice to the town of an unanticipated
bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24 hours from the
time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall also be
provided within 5 days of this time the user becomes aware of the bypass. The
written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and its cause, the
duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if the bypass has
not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue, and steps
taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent reoccurrence of the bypass.
The town may waive the written report on a case-by-case basis if the oral
report has been received within 24 hours.
   (C)   (1)   Bypass is prohibited, and the town may take an enforcement
action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The user submitted notices as required under division (B) above.
      (2)   The town may approve an anticipated bypass, after considering its
adverse effects, if the town determines that it will meet the 3 conditions
listed in division (C)(1) above.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
SEVERABILITY
§ 52.140  PROVISIONS.
   If any provision, paragraph, word, section or article of this chapter is
invalidated by any court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions,
paragraphs, words, sections, and chapters shall not be affected and shall
continue in full force and effect.
(Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
CONFLICT
§ 52.150  INCONSISTENCY OR CONFLICT.
   All other ordinances and parts of other ordinances inconsistent or
conflicting with any part of this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of
such inconsistency or conflict.
(Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 52.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any user who is found to have failed to comply with any
provision of this chapter, or the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued
hereunder, may be fined up to $25,000 per day per violation.
      (2)   Penalties between $10,000 and $25,000 per day per violation may be
assessed against a violator only if:
         (a)   For any class of violation, only if a civil penalty has been
imposed against the violator within the 5 years preceding the violation, or
         (b)   In the case of failure to file, submit, or make available, as
the case may be, any documents, data, or reports required by this chapter, or
the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder, only if the town
determines that the violation was intentional and a civil penalty has been
imposed against the violator within the 5 years preceding the violation.
   (B)   In determining the amount of the civil penalty, the town shall
consider the following:
      (1)   The degree and extent of the harm to the natural resources, to the
public health or to public or private property resulting from the violation;
      (2)   The duration and gravity of the violation;
      (3)   The effect on ground or surface water quantity or quality or on air
quality;
      (4)   The cost of rectifying the damage;
      (5)   The amount of money saved by noncompliance;
      (6)   Whether the violation was committed willfully or intentionally;
      (7)   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to comply
with the pretreatment program; and
      (8)   The costs of enforcement to the town.
   (C) Appeals of civil penalties assessed in accordance with this section
shall be as provided in §
52.046(H).
(Ord. passed 6-13-2005; Am. Ord. 11-7, passed 6-13-2011)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
         
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
         
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Bicycles, skateboards, and the like; handlebars
   
70.02   Unlawful to “gun” a vehicle
General Parking Regulations
   
70.15   Parking of trucks
   
70.16   Parking on sidewalks or obstructing driveways prohibited
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Parking Schedules, see
Ch. 72
   Traffic Schedules, see
Ch. 71
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS, AND THE LIKE; HANDLEBARS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride a bicycle, skateboard,
roller skates, coaster, go-cart, toy vehicle, or similar device upon any
sidewalk or walkway within the Town of Kenly that is so posted.  This section
shall not pertain to individuals confined to or utilizing a wheelchair.
   (B)   No person shall ride a bicycle, motorcycle, or similar vehicle on any
street within the Town of Kenly without having their hands upon the handlebars.
   (C)   This section shall be effective as of 10-1-1991.
(Ord. 107, passed 9-9-1991) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.02  UNLAWFUL TO “GUN” A VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to “gun” a motor or to otherwise operate
a motor vehicle on the streets, alleys, parking lots, or other public places in
the Town of Kenly in a manner as to cause the wheels of the vehicle to suddenly
spin, slide, or skid, or in a way as to propel the vehicle suddenly forward or
backward with great force.
(Ord. 39, passed 8-7-1972) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
GENERAL PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 70.15  PARKING OF TRUCKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, or cause to be parked, any
truck or tractor drawn trailer, larger than 1½-ton capacity, upon any of the
streets, public alleys, or right-of-way of the city within the residential
areas of the city, or the area leased from the Seaboard Coastline Railroad from
Edgerton Street to Second Street on both sides of the Railroad and from Second
Street to Third Street on the east side of Railroad.
(Ord. 46, passed 3-1-1977) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.16  PARKING ON SIDEWALKS OR OBSTRUCTING DRIVEWAYS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand, or park an
automobile or other vehicle on any sidewalk within the Town of Kenly so as to
impede or restrict the use of the sidewalks by pedestrians.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any automobile or other
vehicle in or upon any driveway leading to private property from a public
street, or to block or obstruct the driveway by parking in a manner as to
prevent the easy access to the driveway.
   (C)   This section shall be in full effect and force from and after 11-2-
1959.
(Ord. 27, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   If any person shall violate an ordinance regulating the operation or
parking of vehicles, he or she shall be responsible for an infraction and shall
be required to pay a penalty of not more than $50.
(G.S. § 14-4(b))
   (B)   Violation of § 70.01 shall be punishable by a fine of up to $50.
(Ord. 107, passed 9-9-1991)
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   One-way streets
   
II.   Truck routes
   
III.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I.  ONE-WAY STREETS.
 
Location          Direction         Ord. No. Date Passed Comment
Alley at the U.S.                                        Parking will be only
Post Office       From east to west -        8-13-2001   in marked parking
                                                         spaces
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE II.  TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   All trucks and tractor trailers using the Town of Kenly public streets
and rights-of-way, having a capacity of 2 tons or more, shall travel
exclusively on the truck routes established by this schedule.  This includes
those which stay within the town limits overnight.
   (B)   Trucks taking on or discharging goods, merchandise, parts, and the
like within the town limits shall travel on the established truck routes if
possible.  If it is impossible to pick up or discharge any material without
using the established truck routes, the shortest and most direct route shall be
used.
   (C)   The following town-maintained streets and/or rights-of-way shall be
established as truck routes.
Street Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street                Location                           Ord. No. Date Passed
First Street          From South Railroad Street to U.S. 105      - -
                      301
Gardner Avenue        From First Street to Sixth Street  105      - -
Maple Street          From N.C. 222 to Watkins Street    105      - -
North Railroad Street From First Street to Third Street  105      - -
Sixth Street          From Gardner Avenue to U.S. 301    105      - -
Third Street          From North Railroad Street to U.S. 105      - -
                      301
Watkins Street        From Maple Street to Darden Street 105      - -
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE III.  SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The speed limit of all motorized vehicles traveling upon and using
streets within the corporate limits of the Town of Kenly shall be established
at a maximum of 25 miles per hour unless otherwise posted.
   (B)   Schedule of speed limits.
Street Location Speed Limit (mph)
Street                    Location                            Speed Limit (mph)
Bailey Avenue             Within town limits                  25
Bale Way                  Within town limits                  25
Blooms Way                Within town limits                  25
Chelsie Street            Within town limits                  25
Church Avenue (NC 301)    Within town limits                  35
Corbett Avenue            Within town limits                  25
Cottonwood Drive          Within town limits                  25
Darden Street             Within town limits                  25
Dogwood Lane              Within town limits                  25
E. Second Street (NC 222) Town limits to Alford Avenue        35
E. Second Street (NC 222) Alford Avenue to railroad tracks    20
Edgerton Street           Within town limits                  25
Fifth Street              Within town limits                  25
First Street              Within town limits                  25
Fourth Street             Within town limits                  25
Gardner Avenue            Within town limits                  25
Goldsboro Street          Within town limits                  25
Grady Street              Within town limits                  25
Hamp Drive                Within town limits                  25
Hersey Drive              Within town limits                  25
Hinnant Street            Within town limits                  25
Lincoln Drive             Within town limits                  20
Maple Street              Within town limits                  25
Meadow Brook Lane         Within town limits                  25
North Alford Avenue       E. Second Street (NC 222) to Third  25
                          Street
North College Avenue      E. Second Street to Woodard Street  25
North Railroad Street     E. Second Street (NC 222) to town   35
                          limits
Oakmont Drive             Within town limits                  25
Parkwood Drive            Within town limits                  25
Pineview Road             Within town limits                  25
Pope Avenue               Town limits to E. Second Street (NC 35
                          222)
Redwood Drive             Within town limits                  25
Rollinwood Drive          Within town limits                  25
Rose Lane                 Within town limits                  25
Rosewood Drive            Within town limits                  25
Sasser Street             Within town limits                  25
Seventh Street            Within town limits                  20
Simmons Street            Within town limits                  25
Sixth Street              Within town limits                  20
South Alford Avenue       Town limits to E. Second Street (NC 35
                          222)
South College Avenue      Town limits to E. Second Street (NC 35
                          222)
South Railroad Street     E. Second Street (NC 222) to town   25
                          limits
Third Street              Within town limits                  25
Tilghman Street           Within town limits                  25
Truck Stop Road           Within town limits                  35
W. Second Street (NC 222) Railroad tracks to Church Avenue    20
                          (NC 301)
W. Second Street (NC 222) Church Avenue (NC 301) to town      35
                          limits
Watkins Street            Within town limits                  25
Wiggs Street              Within town limits                  25
Wilson Street             Within town limits                  25
Woolrich Drive            Within town limits                  25
 
(Ord. 48-A, passed 11-11-1977; Am. Ord. 97, passed 9-14-1987; Am. Ord. 16,
passed 10-11-1993; Am. Ord. 14-01, passed 2-10-2014)  Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Loading zones
   
II.   No parking zones
   
III.   Two-hour parking
SCHEDULE I.  LOADING ZONES.
 
Street         Location                   Number of spaces Ord. No. Date Passed
               East side; halfway between
Gardner Avenue Second Street and the      1                -        3-9-1998
               alley beside the post
               office
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE II.  NO PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   Schedule of no parking zones.
Street Location Comment
Street                    Location                   Comment
                          Front of the Heritage Bank
                          (and any future names for
-                         this bank), at the         1 parking space
                          intersection of Second
                          Street and Railroad Street
                          Opening onto First Street,
Alleys                    Second Street, Third       Except for purpose of
                          Street, Gardner Avenue,    loading and unloading
                          and Railroad Street
College Avenue in the                                From 7:45 a.m. to 9:00
school zone area          East side                  a.m. and from 2:00 a.m. to
                                                     4:00 p.m.
                          Between a point located
                          195 feet south from the
                          intersection of Goldsboro
                          Street extension and Pope
Goldsboro Street          Avenue and a second point  Effective 7-7-1980
extension (N.C.S.R. 2344) located 1,170 feet farther
                          south along Goldsboro
                          Street extension (N.C.S.R.
                          2344) from the first point
                          mentioned
                          For 4/10 of a mile on
North Carolina Rural      either side of the road;
Paved Road Number 2379    the 4/10 mile to start     None
West                      from Railroad Street in
                          the Town of Kenly and go
                          west
East Pope Avenue          Intersection with East     no parking
                          Second Street
                          Rear of the Heritage Bank  2 parking spaces; used as
Railroad Street           (and any future names for  access to parking lot
                          this bank) building        directly behind the bank
                                                     building
                                                     Parking limited to 2 hours
                                                     from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00
                          Between U.S. 301 and       p.m. each day, except
Second Street             Seaboard Coastline         Sunday, and the Police
                          Railroad                   Chief is directed to
                                                     maintain signs on the
                                                     street to this effect
East Second Street        Intersection with East     no parking
                          Pope Avenue
 
   (B)   Mayor’s authority.  The Mayor of the Town of Kenly is authorized to
make the appropriate arrangements with the State of North Carolina to the end
that the intent of this schedule can be effectuated.
   (C)   Parking or loafing.  Parking or loafing in any alley within the limits
of the Town of Kenly is prohibited, except as otherwise provided by ordinance,
without the permission of a police officer.
   (D)   Enforcement.  This schedule will be enforced by the Town of Kenly
Police Department.
(Ord. 20, passed 8-8-1969; Am. Ord. 20-A, passed - -; Am. Ord. 33, passed 12-6-
1971; Am. Ord. 17, passed 10-11-1993; Am. Ord. 10-5, passed 8-9-2010)  Penalty,
see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III.  TWO-HOUR PARKING.
 
Street           Location          Hours             Ord. No. Date Passed
                 From Second       Cannot remain
Property leased  Street north to   parked
by the town from the intersection  continuously for           7-10-1978;
Seaboard         of Third Street   more than 2 hours 50       effective 8-1-
Coastline        on the east side  between 8:00 a.m.          1978
Railroad         of Seaboard       and 6:00 p.m.,
                 Coastline         except Sundays
                 Railroad tracks
                                   Cannot remain
                                   parked
                 From ACL Railroad continuously for
Second Street    to U.S. 301       more than 2 hours 17       1- -1967
                                   between 8:00 a.m.
                                   and 6:00 p.m.,
                                   except Sundays
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
91.   PARKS AND RECREATION
         
92.   NUISANCES
         
93.   ABANDONED, NUISANCE, AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
         
94.   ANIMALS
         
95.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 90:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Paving of alleyways
   
90.02   Prefixes for certain streets
   
90.03   Property numbering system
   
90.04   Riding of animals on public streets, sidewalks, and the like
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01  PAVING OF ALLEYWAYS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALLEYWAY.  An area of land owned and maintained by the Town of Kenly and
designated as an alleyway on official town maps by the Town Council.  ALLEYWAYS
as used herein shall be limited to those areas between streets and shall
include the entire portion of the areas from existing paved streets to other
existing paved streets, except in those cases in which the alleyway terminates
at some point other than a paved street.
      APPLICANT.  Property owner or occupant of property abutting an alleyway.
      ENGINEERING FEES.  To include, but not be limited to, cost of surveying,
preparation and review of bid documents, and supervision of all engineering
work.
      TOTAL COST OF THE PROJECT.  Shall include, but not be limited to,
engineering fees, legal fees, labor, materials, and equipment necessary for the
paving of alleys hereunder.
   (B)   (1)   It is hereby ordained that the Town Council of the Town of Kenly
establish a policy for paving unpaved alleyways within the town limits of the
Town of Kenly upon the terms and conditions as set forth herein.
      (2)   Any person desiring that an alleyway be paved shall comply with the
terms and procedures set forth in this section.
   (C)   Any applicant desiring paving of an alleyway within the Town of Kenly
shall apply for the town to pave the alleyway.  The applicant or applicants
shall certify, upon a form approved by the Town Attorney, that 50% of the total
project cost of paving will be deposited with the Town of Kenly prior to the
commencement of any paving work.
   (D)   (1)   Upon the receipt of an application and certification as set
forth in division (C) above, the Town Council of the Town of Kenly shall
ascertain whether the following conditions exist:
         (a)   Whether the subject alleyway is officially designated on the
official town records;
         (b)   Whether the alleyway is an open alleyway;
         (c)   Whether there are funds available for the cost of the project,
or whether funds can be budgeted to cover the cost of the project; and/or
         (d)   Whether the certification required in division (C) above has
been presented to the town and is in proper form.
      (2)   If all the above conditions are met, then the Town Council shall
direct the Town Manager to begin the process to obtain bids for the paving of
the alleyway.  The Town of Kenly shall prepare these specifications and bids in
accordance with generally accepted engineering practice and applicable state
laws.
   (E)   Upon the receipt of bids for the paving of the alleyway and after the
selection of a contractor to perform the project work, the Town Council shall
direct the applicant or applicants to deposit with the Town of Kenly 50% of the
total project cost as defined herein.  No action of any type, including
engineering, shall commence on the project until the time as the deposit
required herein has been made.
   (F)   The Town of Kenly may, in its discretion, include the paving project
for the alleyway with any other paving project, or may bid the paving project
at the same time as other paving projects.
   (G)   All the paving performed pursuant to this section shall be done in
accordance with town specifications as set forth by the Town Engineer.  The
town hereby specifically reserves the right to open and/or close alleyways in
accordance with established policy and upon the terms and conditions as the
town may deem necessary and proper.  The town shall comply with the laws of the
State of North Carolina pertaining to bidding as shall apply to each particular
application hereunder.
(Ord. 89, passed 2-10-1986) 
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.02  PREFIXES FOR CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   Prefixes for the following named streets or parts thereof are hereby
designated as follows.
      (1)   North and South prefix designated.  The portion of the streets
named below are lying north of N.C. 222 are hereby designated or renamed with
the prefix North and the portion of the streets named below and lying south of
N.C. 222 are hereby designated or renamed with the prefix South.
         (a)   Englewood Drive;
         (b)   Maple Street;
         (c)   Church Street;
         (d)   Gardner Avenue;
         (e)   Corbett Avenue;
         (f)   Railroad Street;
         (g)   Alford Avenue;
         (h)   College Avenue; and
         (i)   Wilson Street.
      (2)   East and West prefix designated.  The portion of the streets or
parts thereof named below and lying east of the Seaboard Coast Line Railroad
are hereby designated or renamed with the prefix East and the portion of the
streets or parts thereof named below and lying west of the Seaboard Coast Line
Railroad are hereby designated or renamed with the prefix West.
         (a)   Third Street;
         (b)   Second Street;
         (c)   First Street;
         (d)   Edgerton Street;
         (e)   Grady Street; and
         (f)   Goldsboro Street.
   (B)   From and after the effective date of this section, all public streets
designated or renamed herein shall have and shall be known by the prefix and
the name as provided for in this section.
   (C)   All official maps of the Town of Kenly shall be corrected to show the
designated street names as provided for by this section, and a copy of this
section shall be filed with the Register of Deeds of Johnston County.
   (D)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after 3-29-
1982.
(Ord. 67, passed - -)
§ 90.03  PROPERTY NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   (A)   Numbering map.  The property numbering map entitled Property Numbering
Map, dated February, 1982, Town of Kenly, N.C. is hereby adopted as the
official property numbering map of the Town of Kenly, North Carolina, and all
property numbers assigned shall be assigned in accordance with the numbering
map and no other property numbers shall be used or displayed in the Town of
Kenly except numbers assigned in accordance with official numbering map.  The
property numbering map shall be kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
   (B)   Numbering system.
      (1)   On the property numbering map, the Seaboard Coast Line Railroad is
hereby designated as the east and west axis and the N.C. 222 Highway is hereby
designated as the north and south axis and all avenues, streets, and roads
running generally north and south shall be numbered from the north-south
consecutively to the corporate limits of the extremity of the avenue, street,
or road.  Avenues, streets, or roads running generally east and west shall be
numbered from the east-west axis in the same manner.  Wherever possible, 100
numbers shall be allowed to each block.
      (2)   One whole number shall be assigned for every 25 feet of ground
area, where practical, whether improved property or vacant property on every
street within the corporate limits of the town.
      (3)   Odd numbers shall be assigned to the west side of the street on all
north-south streets and even numbers on the east side.  On east-west streets,
odd numbers shall be assigned to the south side of the street and even numbers
to the north side.
   (C)   Owners to display numbers.
      (1)   Every property owner of improved property shall, on or before 7-1-
1982, display the number assigned near the front entrance, preferably in a
lighted area, of the dwelling or place of business so that the number is
visible from the street.
      (2)   Each number shall be a minimum of 3 inches in height.
   (D)   Numbers for future buildings.  All residence and business buildings
erected after the adoption of this section shall be assigned a number in
accordance with the property numbering map and shall display the number as
provided in division (C) above within 30 days after the new residence or
business building is occupied.
   (E)   Unlawful to deface number.  It shall be unlawful for any person to
alter, deface, or take down any number placed on any property in accordance
with this section, except for repair or replacement of the number.
(Ord. 66, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.04  RIDING OF ANIMALS ON PUBLIC STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride the back of a pony, horse,
mule, or other animal on any public street, sidewalk, or other public place
within the corporate limits of the Town of Kenly, after sundown.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride the back of a pony, horse,
mule, or other animal at any time upon the public sidewalks within the
corporate limits of the Town of Kenly.
(Ord. 3, passed 8-1-1955) 
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to § 10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Failure to display the number assigned to each building shall be
punishable by a $5 civil penalty to be paid within 5 calendar days after being
notified by town officials of noncompliance.
      (2)   Anyone who alters, defaces, or takes down any number, except for
repair or replacement, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor as provided by G.S. §
14-4.
(Ord. 66, passed - -)
CHAPTER 91:  PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Park property
   
91.03   Sanitation
   
91.04   Traffic
   
91.05   Recreational activities
   
91.06   Behavior
   
91.07   Merchandising, advertising, and signs
   
91.08   Curfew
   
91.09   Park operating policy
   
91.10   Enforcement
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT.  The Parks and Recreation Department of the town.
   DIRECTOR.  The director of the Parks and Recreation Department of the town
and is the person immediately in charge of any park area and its activities.
   PARK.  A park, playground, community center, or any other area or structure
in the town, owned or leased or used by the town.
   PERSON.  Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, or organization of any kind.
   VEHICLE.  Any wheeled conveyance, whether motor-powered, animal-drawn, or
self-propelled; except wheel chairs and similar vehicles, baby carriages, and
vehicles in the service of the town parks.
(Ord. 126, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 91.02  PARK PROPERTY.
   (A)   Buildings and other property.  No person in a park shall:
      (1)   Willfully mark, deface, disfigure, adulterate, injure, tamper with,
or displace or remove any buildings, tables, benches, fireplaces, paving or
paving material, water lines, or other public utilities or signs, notices or
placards whether temporary or permanent, receptacles, monuments, stakes, posts,
or other boundary markers;
      (2)   Force entry into any restroom or washroom that is locked or bolted;
and no person over the age of 5 years shall use any restroom designated for the
opposite sex; and/or
      (3)   Dig or remove any soil, rock, or stones (except in areas designated
for that purpose), or any trees, shrubs, plants, plantings, or grass.
   (B)   Trees, shrubbery, lawns.  No person in a park shall:
      (1)   Damage, cut, carve, transplant, or remove any tree or plant or
injure the bark, attach any rope, wire, or other contrivance to any tree or
plant, or tie or hitch an animal to any tree or plant; and/or
      (2)   Climb, stand, or sit upon monuments, vases, fountains, railings,
fences, trees, or upon any other property not designated or customarily used
for the purposes.
   (C)   Wild animals; birds.  No person in a park shall:
      (1)   Hunt, molest, harm, frighten, kill, trap, chase, tease, shoot, or
throw missiles at any animal; and/or
      (2)   Give or offer, or attempt to give, to any animal or bird any
tobacco, alcohol, or other known noxious substances.
(Ord. 126, passed 12-8-1997) 
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.03  SANITATION.
   No person in a park shall:
   (A)   Throw, discharge, or otherwise place or cause to be placed in the
waters of any stream, other body of water in or adjacent to any park or any
tributary stream, storm sewer, or drain flowing into the waters, any substance,
matter or thing, liquid or solid, which will or may result in the pollution of
the waters; and/or
   (B)   Dump, deposit, or leave any bottles, broken glass, ashes, paper,
boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage or refuse, or other trash anywhere
on the park grounds; except the matter may be placed in proper receptacles
where provided.  Where receptacles are not provided, all the rubbish or waste
shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible for its presence,
and properly disposed of elsewhere.
(Ord. 126, passed 12-8-1997) 
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.04  TRAFFIC.
   No person in a park shall:
   (A)   Fail to comply with all applicable provisions of the motor vehicle
traffic laws of the state and ordinances of the city in regard to equipment and
operation of vehicles;
   (B)   Fail to obey all police officers, the persons being hereby authorized
and instructed to direct traffic whenever and wherever needed in the parks in
accordance with the provisions of these regulations and the supplementary
regulations as may be issued subsequently by the director;
   (C)   Fail to observe carefully all traffic signs indicating speed,
direction, caution, stopping or parking, and all others posed for proper
control and to safeguard life and property;
   (D)   Ride or drive a vehicle at a rate of speed exceeding 15 mph, except
upon the roads as the director may specifically designate, by posted signs, for
speedier travel;
   (E)   Drive any vehicle on any area except the paved park roads or parking
areas, or walking trail or other areas as may on occasion be specifically
designated as temporary parking areas by the director;
   (F)   Park a vehicle in other than an established or designated parking
area, and the use shall be in accordance with the posted directions and with
the instructions of any traffic officer or park officer who may be present;
   (G)   Fail to immediately notify an attendant or park officer of any
emergency in the nature of a breakdown requiring the assistance of a tow truck,
mechanic, or other persons;
   (H)   Operate any go-cart or minibike at any location within any park other
than the places, if any, as are specifically designated for the purpose by the
Department, except that regularly licensed vehicles and operators may have
access to streets and roadways within parks to the same extent as public
streets, subject to the traffic rules of this article;
   (I)   Ride a bicycle on other than the right-hand side of a paved vehicular
road or path designated for that purpose; or fail to keep in single file when 2
or more bicycles are operating as a group.  A bicyclist shall be permitted to
wheel or push a bicycle by hand over any grassy area or wooden trail or on any
paved area reserved for pedestrian use;
   (J)   Ride any other person over the age of 6 years on a single passenger
bicycle in any park;
   (K)   Leave a bicycle unattended in a place other than a bicycle rack when
one is provided and there is space available;
   (L)   Leave a bicycle lying on the ground or paving, or set against trees,
or in any place or position where other persons may trip over or be injured by
it; and/or
   (M)   Ride a bicycle on any road between 30 minutes after sunset and 30
minutes before sunrise without an attached headlight plainly visible at least
200 feet from the front, and without a red tail light or red reflector plainly
visible from at least 100 feet from the rear of the bicycle.
(Ord. 126, passed 12-8-1997) 
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.05  RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Open picnic areas and use.  No person in a park shall:
      (1)   Picnic or lunch in a place other than normal picnic areas within
the parks.  Attendants shall have the authority to regulate the activities in
the areas when necessary to prevent congestion and to secure the maximum use
for the comfort and convenience of all.  Visitors shall comply with any
directions given to achieve this end;
      (2)   Violate the regulations that the use of the individual unenclosed
picnic areas and shelter, together with fireplaces, tables, and benches follows
generally the rule of “first come, first served.”  The Department may designate
certain unenclosed picnic areas as reservable, in which case the provisions of
division (B) below shall apply to the areas; and/or
      (3)   Leave a picnic area before the fire is completely extinguished and
before all trash in the nature of boxes, papers, cans, bottles, garbage, and
other refuse is placed in the disposal receptacles where provided.
   (B)   Picnic shelters and use.  No person in a park shall:
      (1)   Use or occupy a permanent, picnic shelter except by reservation and
in accordance with regulations established for the use by the director;
      (2)   Fail to vacate a picnic shelter when the specified time for which
it was reserved has elapsed, or fail to leave the shelter in a neat and orderly
condition; and/or
      (3)   Interfere with the use of any picnic shelter, including the
connected porches and patios, by the persons for whom it is reserved during the
time for which they reserved it, or obstruct in any manner the access to and
from the shelters.
   (C)   Other activities.  No person in a park shall:
      (1)   Take part in or abet the playing of any games or activities
involving thrown or otherwise propelled, injurious objects such as balls,
stones, arrows, javelins, or model airplanes except in areas set apart for the
forms of recreation.  The playing of rough or comparatively dangerous games
such as football, baseball, and quoits is prohibited except on the fields and
courts or areas provided therefor; and/or
      (2)   Participate in any activity for which an admission or fee is
charged without having paid the full admission or fee so payable.
(Ord. 126, passed 12-8-1997) 
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.06  BEHAVIOR.
   No person in a park shall:
   (A)   (1)   Consume any malt beverage or unfortified wine, as defined in
G.S. Ch. 18B, except pursuant to a permit issued by the Director of Parks and
Recreation or his or her designee in accordance with policies established by
the director; and/or
      (2)   Possess or consume any fortified wine or spiritous liquor, as
defined in G.S. Ch. 18B, except where the possession and consumption is
specifically authorized by G.S. Ch. 18B and by a permit issued by the Director
of Parks and Recreation or his or her designee in accordance with policies
established by the director.
   (B)   Possess, use, or consume any illegal drugs; or be under the influence
of any illegal drugs while in a park;
   (C)   Build or attempt to build a fire except in the areas as may be
designated by the Department of Parks and Recreation for the building of fires;
or throw or otherwise scatter lighted matches, burning cigarettes or cigars,
tobacco paper or other flammable material, within any park area;
   (D)   Lie or sleep in a prone position on seats, tables, or benches; and/or
   (E)   Disturb or interfere with the activities of any other person or
persons occupying an area of a park with the intent to disrupt the activities
of the other person or persons.
(Ord. 126, passed 12-8-1997) 
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.07  MERCHANDISING, ADVERTISING, AND SIGNS.
   No person in a park shall:
   (A)   Expose, offer for sale, or advertise any article or service except
regularly licensed concessionaires acting by and under the authority and
regulation of the director, and/or unless a permit for the same has been issued
by the director; and/or
   (B)   Paste, glue, tack, or otherwise post any sign, placard, advertisement,
or inscription whatever; except as authorized by the director.
(Ord. 126, passed 12-8-1997) 
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.08  CURFEW.
   (A)   Unless otherwise noted and posted, there will be a curfew in KAPARC
beginning at 11:00 p.m. until 5:00 a.m. each day. There will be an exception to
this curfew if one is participating in an organized recreational function. Once
that function is over, one has 15 minutes to vacate the park.
   (B)   Grady Park, Corbett Street Park and Lincoln Drive Park shall be open
to the public from dawn until dusk. Exceptions to this curfew must be requested
and approved in advance by the Town Manager or his or her authorized
representative.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2005; Am. Ord. 13-10, passed 11-18-2013)
§ 91.09  PARK OPERATING POLICY.
   (A)   Except for unusual and unforseen emergencies as determined by the
director, parks shall be open to the public every day of the year during
designated hours.  The opening and closing hours for each individual park shall
be determined by the Department and shall be posted therein in public
information.
   (B)   Any section or part of any park may be declared closed to the public
by the director at any time and for any interval of time, either temporarily or
at regular and stated intervals (daily or otherwise) and either entirely or
merely to certain uses, as the director shall find reasonably necessary.
   (C)   The findings of lost articles by park attendants shall be reported to
the director, who shall make every reasonable effort to locate the owners.  The
director shall make every reasonable effort to find articles reported as lost.
(Ord. 126, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 91.10  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Park officers shall have the power of special peace officers while on
park property and shall diligently enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The director or park attendants shall have the authority to eject from
any park any person acting in violation of this or any section of this code, or
any law of the state.
(Ord. 126, passed 12-8-1997)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   When there is a violation of any provision of this chapter, the town, in its
discretion, may take 1 or more of the following courses of action.
   (A)   (1)   A penalty of $10 may be levied against any person who violates
§§ 91.04 through 91.07 and who has been issued a citation as specified
hereunder.  A penalty of $25 may be levied against any person who violates §
91.02 and who has been issued a citation as specified hereunder.
      (2)   A town police officer is empowered to issue a citation to any
person if there is reasonable cause to believe that the person has violated a
provision of this chapter.
      (3)   If a violator fails to respond to the citation and delinquency
notice, a complaint shall be entered against the violator for violation of the
cited ordinance and a criminal summons requested.  Upon conviction, the
violator shall be liable for not only the penalty and delinquency charge
prescribed by the citation, but also for any criminal penalty the court may
impose, pursuant to court costs.
      (4)   All citation forms shall be maintained in triplicate and shall be
serially numbered.  Records of all citations shall be maintained so that
account may be kept of all the forms.
      (5)   Nothing in this section shall preclude the issuance of an arrest
warrant when appropriate.
   (B)   A citation may be issued under G.S. § 14-4 for any violation of
traffic laws or ordinances.
   (C)   The violator may be charged with a misdemeanor and be subject to any
penalty prescribed by G.S. § 160A-175.
(Ord. 126, passed 12-8-1997)
CHAPTER 92:  NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Loud and disturbing noise
General Public Nuisances
   
92.15   Deemed unlawful
   
92.16   Enumeration
   
92.17   Notice to abate
   
92.18   Abatement by town
   
92.19   Declaration of lien
   
92.20   Annual notice to chronic violators
Debris Acting as Health or Safety Hazard
   
92.35   Definitions
   
92.36   Responsibility and duty of property owner
   
92.37   Liability of persons to owners of debris
   
92.38   Certain materials exempted
   
92.39   Removal of debris declared a health or safety hazard
   
92.40   Indemnification of town
   
92.41   Notice of removal by town
   
92.42   Removal of debris by town
   
92.43   Disposal of debris by town
   
92.44   Immunity
   
92.45   Existing violations
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned, Nuisance, and Junked Motor Vehicles, see
Ch. 93
   Animals, see
Ch. 94
   Begging; solicitation; pedestrian interference, see
§ 130.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01  LOUD AND DISTURBING NOISE.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this section, the creation of any
unreasonably loud and disturbing noise in Kenly is prohibited and unlawful. 
Noise of the character, intensity, and duration as to be detrimental to the
health, safety, or welfare of any individual is prohibited.
   (B)   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud and
disturbing noises in violation of this section, but the enumeration shall not
be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   The use of any loud, boisterous, or raucous language or shouting so
as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of any person in the
vicinity;
      (2)   The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile,
motorcycle, bus, or other vehicle, except as a danger signal or as required by
law, so as to create any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; or the sounding of
the device for an unreasonable period of time;
      (3)   The playing of any radio, television set, record player, musical
instrument, or sound-producing or sound-amplifying device in the manner or with
the volume, particularly, but not limited to the hours between 11:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m., as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of any person
of normal sensibilities in any dwelling, motel, hotel, or other type of
residence;
      (4)   The keeping of any animal, except livestock, which, by causing
frequent or long continued noise, shall disturb the comfort and repose of any
person of normal sensibility in the vicinity; and/or
      (5)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle, or other vehicle so out of
repair, so loaded, or in the manner as to create loud grating, grinding,
rattling, or other noise.
(Ord. 122, passed 3-14-1994) 
Penalty, see § 92.99
GENERAL PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 92.15  DEEMED UNLAWFUL.
   In order to protect the health and general welfare of the public, preserve
the enjoyment of property rights and other rights from obnoxious and
undesirable infringement, promote the general public welfare of the community
and prevent social harm from the effects of unwanted and detrimental influences
that cross property lines, it shall be unlawful for any person owning,
occupying or having in his or her possession or under his or her control any
lot or parcel of land, improved or vacant, in the town to permit to exist on
such lot or parcel of land any condition which may be declared in this section
to be noxious, detrimental or prejudicial to public health or public safety, or
to otherwise constitute a public nuisance.
(Ord. passed 6-9-2008)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.16  ENUMERATION.
   The existence of any of the following conditions on any lot or parcel of
land in the town is hereby declared to be noxious, dangerous, detrimental and
prejudicial to the public health or general welfare and/or constitutes a public
nuisance in violation of the provisions of this section.
   (A)   Any uncontrolled growth of noxious weeds, grasses or bushes to a
height in excess of 12 inches and causing or threatening to cause infestation
by rats, mice, snakes or vermin of any kind or constituting a fire hazard or
which in any other way is detrimental to the public health, morals, safety or
general welfare; provided, however, that this section shall not apply to
planted and cultivated flowers, shrubbery, vegetables or crops, properties not
reasonably accessible to power mowing equipment, and undeveloped parcels
greater than 5 acres in size, except as provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   Any uncontrolled growth of noxious weeds, grasses or bushes on
undeveloped parcels greater than 5 acres in size, including previously tilled
farm land that is not cultivated or planted during a growing season if:
      (1)   The growth is at a height in excess of 24 inches and is causing or
threatening to cause infestation by rats, mice, snakes or vermin of any kind or
constituting a fire hazard or which is in any other way detrimental to the
public health, safety or general welfare; and
      (2)   The growth is within a distance of 50 feet from any residential
use.
   (C)   Any uncontrolled growth of wild shrubs, bushes, vines, weeds or
similar vegetation that is accessible and controllable by any reasonable means,
is on any lot that contains a dwelling unit or is on a lot within 100 feet of
any residential property and is uncontrolled growth that:
      (1)   Contain other nuisances as set forth in this chapter; or
      (2)   Consists of wild, dense or uncontrolled vegetation, including
overgrown shrubs, underbrush, small trees, vegetative debris or poisonous
plants, that is in such concentration or condition so as to contribute to or
cause a breeding ground for rodents, wild animals or constitute other hazards
detrimental to public health, safety or welfare. This section shall not apply
to areas that are not accessible or controllable by reasonable means, or to
natural areas which customarily exist in a natural condition such as
predominately forested areas with numerous trees, or areas that consist of
managed, landscaped plantings, shrubs or other cultivated or managed
vegetation, including planted areas with legitimate landscape plants for
screening purposes, or plant areas required by the Town of Kenly Code of
Ordinances to be set aside or planted for buffering or screening purposes, or
to protected natural areas or plants under state or federal laws.
   (D)   Pools of stagnant water causing or threatening to cause infestation by
mosquitoes and other disease-carrying insects which are or may be dangerous or
prejudicial to the public health.
   (E)   Any litter consisting of man-made and used materials which is
scattered, cast, thrown, blown, placed, swept or deposited anywhere on a
persistent, continuous or ongoing basis so as to accumulate on any property in
open places such that it is dangerous or prejudicial to the public health or
otherwise constitutes a public nuisance. (For purposes of this chapter, OPEN
PLACES are defined as areas of properties or portions thereof that are open to
the exterior, including building openings of residential dwelling units, such
as carports or porches, and any other exterior portions of properties
ordinarily exposed to the outside and/or public view, including front, side and
rear yards.) The owner and occupant of any property and/or dwelling unit shall
exercise reasonable diligence at all times to keep exterior premises clean of
litter, including glass, bottles, waste paper, wrapping paper, paper napkins,
cartons, package containers and other used or waste materials intentionally or
unintentionally scattered, discarded, thrown or haphazardly left on such
premises on a continuous, ongoing or persistent basis, and to prevent same from
drifting or blowing to adjoining premises by removing such waste or ensuring
that same is placed in approved refuse containers and/or locations for
collection by the town.
   (F)   Except as otherwise allowed herein, any icebox, refrigerator or other
container of any kind which has an air-tight snap lock or other device thereon
and is in use in open areas shall be crated, strapped or locked to such an
extent that is impossible for a child to obtain access to any air-tight
compartment thereof. Snap locks or doors on any discarded refrigerator, icebox
or container shall be removed prior to disposal.
   (G)   The presence or accumulation of dead animals, decayed meat,
vegetables, fruit or other vegetable matter, filthy privies or stables,
garbage, trash, litter or other waste products or materials of any kind,
including uncontrolled accumulation of organic debris, which are or may be
offensive by virtue of strong odors or vapors, or by the inhabitancy therein of
rats, mice, snakes or vermin of any kind, or by constituting a fire or safety
hazard or other condition which otherwise maybe dangerous or prejudicial to the
public health or constitute a public nuisance. All animal food shall be kept,
dispensed and stored in such a manner as to minimize availability of food or
harborage for vermin.
   (H)   Any concentration of unusable building materials, including concrete,
steel or masonry, which due to deterioration or age are no longer suitable for
building construction, alterations or repair, and which are in open places and
are or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public health or otherwise
constitute a public nuisance.
   (I)   Any worn-out, deteriorated or abandoned household or office furniture,
appliances or other metal products of any kind which are kept in open places
and are or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public health or otherwise
constitute a public nuisance.
   (J)   Any products with jagged edges of metal or glass which are kept in
open places and are or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public health or
otherwise constitute a public nuisance.
   (K)   Any concentration of discarded bottles, glass, cans or used medical
supplies which are in open places or in confined areas which may be dangerous
or prejudicial to the public health or otherwise constitute a public nuisance.
   (L)   Any junk, waste materials, unusable building materials, trash,
garbage, oily rags, barrels, cans, papers, bricks or brickbats and other
litter, refuse, rubbish or combustible materials which is scattered, cast,
placed or deposited in a yard or yards, so as to constitute an accumulation or
concentration in an open area and are or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the
public health or otherwise constitute a public nuisance.
   (M)   The presence, accumulation, storage or placement of:
      (1)   Junk, including, but not limited to, deteriorated, unusable or
inoperative furniture, appliances, machinery, equipment, building materials,
worn out and disused automobiles or parts, tires or any other man-made items
which are either in whole, or in part, wrecked, junked, disused, worn out,
dismantled or inoperative:
         (a)   Storage of junk shall only be allowed on any properties used for
nonresidential purposes if in compliance with all other town codes, or if not
addressed by a town code, completely enclosed within a building or otherwise
evenly placed or neatly stacked and concealed by a solid fence, cover or other
means so as to not be visible at the property line from abutting properties or
a public street;
         (b)   Storage of junk shall only be allowed on any property used for
residential purposes if completely stored in an enclosed building or limited to
100 square feet in area and completely concealed by a solid fence, cover or
other means so as not to be visible at the property line from abutting
properties or a public street, concentrated in 1 area within the rear yard and
neatly arranged or stacked so as not to exceed 6 feet in height; and
         (c)   Whether stored on a residential or nonresidential property such
storage of junk shall be maintained in such a manner so as to prevent overgrown
grass or weeds or an infestation of wild animals, reptiles and rodents.
      (2)   Usable building materials, unless:
         (a)   Permitted as an authorized storage in the Code of Ordinances of
the Town of Kenly;
         (b)   Stored on any nonresidential lot; or
         (c)   If stored on any residential lot where construction has stopped
or never commenced for a period of 1 year and there is not a current, valid
outstanding building permit issued for construction on the residential lot,
such storage is inside a completely enclosed building (if otherwise permitted
on the lot) or placed in the rear of the lot and stored in accordance with
division (M)(1)(a) above.
      (3)   Construction fill materials, unless such materials are:
         (a)   Stored in a level, safe manner;
         (b)   Placed in gently sloped mounds, for a period of time not to
exceed 12 months; or
         (c)   Approved by the Town Manager or his or her designee as a
reasonable landscape feature evidenced by a comprehensive landscape plan
showing such features for legitimate landscape purposes as part of the total
development of the lot.
      (4)   Firewood, except when stored in a neat and orderly fashion for safe
access and maintenance and does not to exceed 6 feet in height above the
ground.
   (N)   Whether completely enclosed in a building or concealed by a fence or
cover or otherwise permitted on the lot, such storage or accumulation of the
above items shall not be permitted if it causes or threatens to cause a fire
hazard, or threatens to cause accumulation of stagnant water, causes or
threatens to cause the inhabitation therein of rats, mice, snakes or vermin, or
wild animals of any kind, constitutes a hazardous condition, or causes or
threatens to cause a public nuisance, all of which are or may be dangerous or
prejudicial to the public health or general welfare.
   (O)   Any other condition declared to be a detriment or danger to the public
health, safety, morals and general welfare of the inhabitants of the town and/
or a public nuisance by the Town Council at a public hearing, notice of which
has been properly served.
(Ord. passed 6-9-2008)
§ 92.17  NOTICE TO ABATE.
   Whenever it shall come to the attention of the Town Manager, Code
Enforcement Officer, Town Inspector or other authorized town officer or
representative, that there exists on any lot or parcel of land in the town any
of the conditions enumerated in this section, the Officer or Inspector shall
forthwith give the owner, occupant and/or person having the lot under his or
her control notice thereof to abate or remove the conditions or otherwise
comply with the town code. Such notice shall be deemed sufficient if given by
personal service of written notice or service by registered or certified mail
to such person, owner and/or occupant at his or her last known address. The
person so served shall have 10 days from the date of such service in which to
remedy the same or the town shall cause the same to be remedied, unless an
appeal for relief in writing is made within this time period to the Town
Council. In lieu of, or in addition to such notice, the Officer or Inspector
may issue a citation notice and take enforcement actions as set forth in §
10.99. In the event an Inspector determines that a nuisance is an immediate
detriment to human safety or welfare, the Inspector may take appropriate action
to summarily abate the condition without notice.
(Ord. passed 6-9-2008)
§ 92.18  ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   If any person, after having been ordered to abate a public nuisance
described in this section, fails, neglects or refuses to abate or remove the
condition constituting the nuisance within 10 days from the receipt of the
order, the Town Manager or his or her designee shall cause the condition to be
removed or otherwise remedied by having employees of the town or a private
contractor hired by the town go upon such premises and remove or otherwise
abate such nuisance under the supervision of an officer or employee designated
by the administrative officer. In such instances, weeds or grass shall always
be cut to a height satisfactory to the Manager or his or her designee.
(Ord. passed 6-9-2008)
§ 92.19  DECLARATION OF LIEN.
   The costs of correcting the conditions and abating the nuisance, along with
any applicable legal fees, penalties and fines and administrative service fees
shall become a lien against the real property upon which such costs are
incurred. The amount of such lien shall be added to the tax roll and collected
as unpaid taxes.
(Ord. passed 6-9-2008)
§ 92.20  ANNUAL NOTICE TO CHRONIC VIOLATORS.
   For a chronic violator of this subchapter, if the violator's property is
found to be in violation, the town shall, without further notice in the
calendar year in which notice is given, take action to remedy the violation.
The expense of the action shall become a lien upon the property and shall be
collected as unpaid taxes. The initial annual notice shall be served by
registered or certified mail. A chronic violator is a person who owns property
whereupon, in the previous calendar year, the municipality took remedial action
at least 3 times under this chapter per G.S. § 160A-200.
(Ord. 11-3, passed 4-11-2011)
DEBRIS ACTING AS HEALTH OR SAFETY HAZARD
§ 92.35  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§ 92.35 et seq., the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCUMULATION.  The placement of more than 1 of the identical material or
equipment on public or private property.
   DEBRIS.  Any and all material or equipment that has served its useful life,
material or equipment that is worn out, or material or equipment that has been
thrown away by another individual or business that has served its useful life
and/or is worn out.  This does not apply to abandoned or junked vehicles;
Chapter 93 regulates abandoned or junked vehicles.
   DEPOSITING.  The placement of any debris described in item A above on public
or private property.
(Ord. 104, passed 8-14-1989)
§ 92.36  RESPONSIBILITY AND DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNER.
   It shall be the responsibility and duty of the owner of any and all debris
which is classified as a potential health or safety hazard to have the material
removed within 7 calendar days of notification and to pay all costs incidental
to the removal.
(Ord. 104, passed 8-14-1989) 
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.37  LIABILITY OF PERSONS TO OWNERS OF DEBRIS.
   No town employee, contractor for the Town of Kenly, any employee of a
contractor for the Town of Kenly, or other person shall be held responsible in
any action to any debris owner involved in the removal, clean up operation, or
disposition of debris as provided in §§ 92.35 et seq.
(Ord. 104, passed 8-14-1989)
§ 92.38  CERTAIN MATERIALS EXEMPTED.
   No section in §§ 92.35 et seq. shall apply to any business licensed in the
Town of Kenly being operated in a lawful place and manner if the material is
necessary for the operation of the business and the material is appropriately
stored.
(Ord. 104, passed 8-14-1989)
§ 92.39  REMOVAL OF DEBRIS DECLARED A HEALTH OR SAFETY HAZARD.
   Any and all debris that is classified as debris that has not been disposed
of as described in § 92.36, it shall be removed from premises if the town or
duly authorized official declares the debris to be a health or safety hazard.
(Ord. 104, passed 8-14-1989)
§ 92.40  INDEMNIFICATION OF TOWN.
   Any person requesting the removal of debris from private property shall
indemnify the Town of Kenly against any and all losses, expenses, or
liabilities incurred because of the removal, sale, or other means required to
bring the particular case in compliance with §§ 92.35 et seq.
(Ord. 104, passed 8-14-1989)
§ 92.41  NOTICE OF REMOVAL BY TOWN.
   When any debris is to be removed by the Town of Kenly, written notice of the
potential removal of the debris by the Town of Kenly shall be given to the
owner of the debris or property owner the debris is located. The most current
record available to the town shall be used.
(Ord. 104, passed 8-14-1989)
§ 92.42  REMOVAL OF DEBRIS BY TOWN.
   If a property owner does not remove debris classified as a health or safety
hazard within 7 calendar days after being notified in writing by the Town of
Kenly, the debris shall be removed and disposed of by the town in accordance
with §§ 92.35 et seq.
(Ord. 104, passed 8-14-1989)
§ 92.43  DISPOSAL OF DEBRIS BY TOWN.
   (A)   After removal of debris by the Town of Kenly the material shall be
legally disposed of; including, but not limited to, hauling to landfill or
business established to receive the debris.
   (B)   The proceeds of any sale of debris shall be paid to the Town Clerk or
Tax Collector and deposited in the general fund of the Town of Kenly to pay for
the expenses related to the removal, and cleanup, storage, investigation and
administration, and disposal of the debris.  The owners right therein become
extinguished when the debris is not satisfactorily disposed of upon written
notice by the Town of Kenly.
(Ord. 104, passed 8-14-1989)
§ 92.44  IMMUNITY.
   Neither the town, its employees, or agents shall be held to answer in any
civil or criminal action to any owner or other persons legally entitled to the
possession of any debris classified a health or safety hazard as contemplated
by §§ 92.35 et seq.
(Ord. 104, passed 8-14-1989)
§ 92.45  EXISTING VIOLATIONS.
   Individuals or businesses that are in non-compliance with §§ 92.35 et seq.
shall be given 30 calendar days from the adoption of §§ 92.35 et seq. to become
in compliance with §§ 92.35 et seq.
(Ord. 104, passed 8-14-1989)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to § 10.99.
   (B)   A violation of § 92.01 by any person is a misdemeanor and shall
subject the offender to a fine of, up to $50 and/or imprisonment for up to 30
days.
(Ord. 122, passed 3-14-1994)
   (C)   (1)   The procedure set forth in §§ 92.15 et seq. shall be in addition
to any other remedies that may now or hereafter exist under law for the
abatement of public nuisances and §§ 92.15 et seq. shall not prevent the town
from proceeding in a criminal action against any person, firm, or corporation
violating the provisions of §§ 92.15 et seq. as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
      (2)   In addition to other available remedies, §§ 92.15 et seq. may be
enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issuing from a court of competent
jurisdiction and applied for by the town as provided in G.S. § 160A-175(b).
      (3)   Also in addition to other available remedies, any violation of the
provisions of §§ 92.15 et seq. may subject the offender to a civil penalty in
an amount up to $50 per day, which may be recovered by the town in a civil
action in the nature of debt if the offender does not pay the penalty within 30
days after he or she has been cited by the Town Clerk for violation, as
provided in G.S. § 160A-175(c).
(Ord. 74, passed 10-10-1983)
CHAPTER 93:  ABANDONED, NUISANCE, AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
93.01   Administration
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
93.04   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
93.05   Junked vehicle regulated; removal authorized
   
93.06   Removal of abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicles; pre-towing
notice requirements
   
93.07   Exceptions to prior notice requirement
   
93.08   Removal of vehicles; post-towing notice requirements
   
93.09   Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle
   
93.10   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
93.11   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
93.12   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
93.13   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
93.14   Exceptions
   
93.15   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 92
§ 93.01  ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Police Department and Town Manager of the town shall be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   The Police Department shall be responsible for administering the
removal and disposition of vehicles determined to be abandoned on the public
streets and highways within the town, and on property owned by the town.
   (C)   The Town Manager shall be responsible for administering the removal
and disposition of abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicles located on
private property.
   (D)   The town may, on an annual basis, contract with private tow truck
operators or towing businesses to remove, store, and dispose of abandoned
vehicles, nuisance vehicles, and junked motor vehicles in compliance with this
chapter and applicable state laws.
   (E)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the legal
authority or powers of officers of the Town Police Department and Fire
Department in enforcing other laws or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
(Ord. passed 3-14-1994)
§ 93.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.  As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303, is 1 that:
      (1)   Is left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking:
      (2)   Is left on a public street or highway for longer than 7 days;
      (3)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours; or
      (4)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant, or lessee thereof, for longer than 2 hours.
   AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL.  The supervisory employee of the Police Department or
the Town Manager, respectively, designated to authorize the removal of vehicles
under the provisions of this chapter.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE.  As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2, a
vehicle that does not display a current license plate lawfully upon that
vehicle and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than 5 years old and appears to be worth less than $500.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE.  All machines designed or intended to travel over
land by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE.  A vehicle on public or private property that is
determined and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance, and
unlawful, including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats, or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over 8
inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil, or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods, and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste, or any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; or
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 3-14-1994; Am. Ord. passed 5-12-2008)
§ 93.03  ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow the vehicle to be abandoned as the
term is defined herein.
   (B)   Upon investigation, proper authorizing officials of the town may
determine that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. passed 3-14-1994) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.04  NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant of the
real property upon which the vehicle is located to leave or allow the vehicle
to remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Town Manager may determine and declare that a
vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle as defined above,
and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. passed 3-14-1994) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.05  JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to have more than 1 junked motor vehicle, as
defined herein, on the premises of public or private property.  Single,
permitted junked motor vehicle must strictly comply with the location and
concealment requirements of this section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, person entitled to the possession
of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant of the real
property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to fail to comply with
the locational requirements or the concealment requirements of this section.
   (D)   Subject to the provisions of division (E) below, upon investigation,
the Town Manager may order the removal of a junked motor vehicle as defined in
this chapter after finding in writing that the aesthetic benefits of removing
the vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on the private property owner.  The
finding shall be based on a balancing of the monetary loss of the apparent
owner against the corresponding gain to the public by promoting or enhancing
community, neighborhood, or area appearance.  The following among other
relevant factors may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness, and emotional stability of
area residents.
   (E)   Permitted concealment or enclosure of junked motor vehicle:
      (1)   One junked motor vehicle, in its entirety, can be located in the
rear yard as defined by the town's zoning ordinance if the junked motor vehicle
is entirety concealed from public view from a public street and from abutting
premises by an acceptable covering.
      (2)   The Town Manager has the authority to determine whether any junked
motor vehicle is adequately concealed as required by this provision.  The
covering must remain in good repair and must not be allowed to deteriorate. 
The covering or enclosure must be compatible with the objectives stated in this
chapter.
      (3)   Any other junked motor vehicle(s) must be kept in a garage or
building structure that provides a complete enclosure so that the junked motor
vehicles cannot be seen from a public street or abutting property.  A garage or
building structure means either a lawful, nonconforming use or a garage or
building structure erected pursuant to the lawful issuance of a building permit
and which has been constructed in accordance with all zoning and building code
regulations.
(Ord. passed 3-14-1994) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.06  REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, NUISANCE, OR JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES; PRE-TOWING
NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as set forth in § 93.07, an abandoned, nuisance, or junked
vehicle which is to be removed shall be towed only after notice to the
registered owner or person entitled to possession of the vehicle.  In the case
of a nuisance vehicle or a junked motor vehicle, if the names and mailing
addresses of the registered owner or person entitled to the possession of the
vehicle, or the owner, lessee, or occupant of the real property upon which the
vehicle is located can be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence,
the notice shall be given by first-class mail.  The person who mails the notice
(s) shall retain a written record to show the name(s) and address(es) to which
mailed, and the date mailed.  If the names and addresses cannot be ascertained
or if the vehicle to be removed is an abandoned motor vehicle, notice shall be
given by affixing on the windshield or some other conspicuous place on the
vehicle a notice indicating that the vehicle will be removed by the town on a
specified date (no sooner than 7 days after the notice is affixed).  The notice
shall state that the vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified date,
no sooner than 7 days after the notice is affixed or mailed, unless the vehicle
is moved by the owner or legal possessor prior to that time.
   (B)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked motor vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if
the registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the
vehicle but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned,
a nuisance vehicle, or in the case of a junked motor vehicle that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, the appeal shall be made
to the Town Council in writing, heard at the next regularly scheduled meeting
of the Town Council, and further proceedings to remove the vehicle shall be
stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
(Ord. passed 3-14-1994)
§ 93.07  EXCEPTIONS TO PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the
authorizing official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a
special need for prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to
otherwise maintain and protect the public safety and welfare.  The findings
shall, in all cases, be entered by the authorizing official in the appropriate
daily records.
   (B)   Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicles without prior notice
includes;
      (1)   Vehicles abandoned on the streets.  For vehicles left on the public
streets and highways, the Town Council hereby determines that immediate removal
of the vehicles may be warranted when they are:
         (a)   Obstructing traffic;
         (b)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
         (c)   Parked in a no-stopping or standing zone;
         (d)   Parked in loading zones;
         (e)   Parked in bus zones; and/or
         (f)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions imposed
under code sections.
      (2)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles.  With respect to abandoned or
nuisance vehicles left on city-owned property other than the streets and
highways, and on private property, the vehicles may be removed without giving
prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorizing official finds a
special need for prompt action to protect and maintain the public health,
safety, and welfare.  By way of illustration and not of limitation, the
circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to
businesses and residences, vehicles parked in a location or manner as to pose a
traffic hazard, and vehicles causing damage to public or private property.
(Ord. passed 3-14-1994)
§ 93.08  REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle which has been
ordered removed may, as directed by the town, be removed to a storage garage or
area by the town truck operator or towing business contracting to perform the
services for the town.  Whenever a vehicle is removed, the authorizing town
official shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the
vehicle, the notice to include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (B)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, including the information set forth in division (A) above, shall also
be mailed to the registered owner's last known address, unless this notice is
waived in writing by the vehicle owner or his or her agent.
   (C)   If the vehicle is registered in North Carolina, notice shall be given
within 24 hours.  If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall
be given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the
vehicle.
   (D)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and the vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the
authorizing city official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify him or her of the information set forth in division
(A) above.
(Ord. passed 3-14-1994)
§ 93.09  RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR FINAL DISPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle, or junked motor
vehicle, the owner or any other person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle.  A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the county
magistrate designated by the chief district court judge to receive the hearing
requests.  The magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of
the request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the
provisions of G.S. § 20-219.11, as amended.
(Ord. passed 3-14-1994)
§ 93.10  REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of the fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle.  Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow
or engage in further violations of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-1994) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.11  SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed
by the owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the
tow truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle.
   (B)   Disposition of the vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with
the city and in accordance with G.S. Ch. 44A, Art. 1.
(Ord. passed 3-14-1994)
§ 93.12  CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   As a general policy, the town will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant, or lessee of the property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures.
   (B)   In no case will a vehicle be removed by the town from private property
without a written request of the owner, occupant, or lessee, except in those
cases where a vehicle is a nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which
has been ordered removed by the Town Manager.
   (C)   The town may require any person requesting the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle from private property to indemnify
the town against any loss, expense, or liability incurred because of the
removal, storage, or sale thereof.
(Ord. passed 3-14-1994)
§ 93.13  PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned
nuisance or junked motor vehicle, for disposing of the vehicle as provided in
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-14-1994)
§ 93.14  EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle:
   (A)   Which is located in a bona fide AUTOMOBILE GRAVEYARD or JUNKYARD as
defined in G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the Junkyard Control Act, G.S. §§
136-141 et seq.;
   (B)   Which is in an enclosed building;
   (C)   Which is on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a
lawful place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise; or
   (D)   Which is in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the town.
(Ord. passed 3-14-1994)
§ 93.15  UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the town any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this code unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of the fees, have been paid.
(Ord. passed 3-14-1994) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 94:  ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.001   Purpose
   
94.002   Duties of animal control officer; personal liability
   
94.003   Definitions
   
94.004   Animals or fowl banned from sale; coloring prohibited
   
94.005   Cruelty to animals
   
94.006   Injuring animals, notice required
   
94.007   Teasing and molesting
   
94.008   Keeping swine prohibited
   
94.009   Standards; kennels
   
94.010   Licenses for kennels
Dogs
   
94.025   Dogs running at large prohibited
   
94.026   Confinement of female dogs in heat
   
94.027   Keeping stray dogs; requirements; failure to surrender
Chicken Coops
   
94.030   Chicken coops
Nuisance Animals
   
94.040   Enforcement
Wild Animals
   
94.050   Permit required
   
94.051   Authority of police department
Impoundment, Confinement, and Disposition
   
94.065   When animal impounded
   
94.066   Notice to owner of impounded animal
   
94.067   Periods of impoundment
   
94.068   Redemption of impounded animal
   
94.069   Disposition of unredeemed animals
   
94.070   Records of impounded animals
   
94.071   Procedure upon suspicion of rabies
   
94.072   Animals; disposal of
   
94.073   Disposal of animal carcasses
Administration
   
94.085   Licenses; generally
   
94.086   Enforcement
 
   
94.999   Penalty
Editor’s note:
   Included here are the index and footnotes from Ord. 121, Section 7.  The
chapter set out below include references made to the applicable general laws
including, but not limited to: Cruelty to Animals, G.S. §§ 14-360 et seq.;
livestock law, G.S. §§ 68-15 et seq.; protection of animals, G.S. §§ 19A-1 et
seq.; rabies, G.S. §§ 106-364 et seq.; regulation of the use of pesticides,
G.S. §§ 143-440 et seq.; dogs, G.S. §§ 67-1 et seq.; abuse of animals, G.S. §
160A-182; noise regulation, G.S. § 160A-184; regulations of domestic animals,
G.S. § 160A-186; possession or harboring of dangerous animals, G.S. § 160A-187;
bird sanctuaries G.S. § 160A-188; abatement of public health nuisances G.S. §
160A-193;  regulating and licensing business, trades, etc. G.S. § 160A-194;
privilege license taxes, G.S. § 160A-211; animal taxes, G.S. § 160A-212; animal
shelter, G.S. § 160A-493; and disposition of dead domesticated animals, G.S. §
106-403; and that a federal law reference be made to the Animal Welfare Act of
1970, Title 7 United States Code Section 2131 et seq.  Some of the state
statutory cites and federal cites may have changed, been amended or repealed.
   GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.001  PURPOSE.
   (A)   Some but not all of the purposes of this chapter is to define and
prohibit the abuse of animals; to regulate, restrict the production or emission
of noises or other sounds that tend to annoy, disturb or frighten citizens of
the town; to regulate, restrict or prohibit the keeping, running or going at
large of any domestic animals, including dogs and cats; to regulate, restrict
or prohibit the possession or harboring within the town wild animals dangerous
to person or offensive to the senses; to summarily remove, abate, or remedy
everything within the town limits, or within 1 mile thereof, that is dangerous
or prejudicial to the public health; to regulate and license certain
occupations, businesses or trades; and to levy an annual license tax on the
privilege of keeping dogs within the town.
   (B)   It is expressly recognized that the owners of animals are responsible
for the acts of their animals. The owner of any animal which commits a nuisance
upon the property of another person or who damages another person's property or
person, is fully responsible and accountable for these acts. The presence of
any stray animal at large, as hereinafter defined, within the corporate limits
of the town is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. Such animals are a
threat to the health of the community and to the safety of persons and property
alike. Moreover, it is hereby declared in the public interest that such owners
provide their animals with humane shelter from heat, cold, rain, wind and snow,
and shall provide food and water adequate to keep their animals in good health
and comfort. All animals should be given opportunity for vigorous daily
exercises and provided by their owners with veterinary care when needed to
prevent suffering. It is contrary to the public policy expressed herein for any
person to poison or maim any animal or to abandon same. Unwanted animals should
be given to the animal control officer or police officer to be sold or
otherwise disposed of in a humane manner.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-11-1993)
§ 94.002  DUTIES OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER; PERSONAL LIABILITY.
   (A)   In order to abate the aforementioned problems and enforce the
regulations hereinafter set forth, primary responsibility is hereby delegated
to the animal control officer. The animal control officer, in the performance
of his or her duties, shall have all the powers, authorities and immunities
granted under this chapter and by the general laws of this State to enforce the
provisions of the Chapter and the General Statutes of North Carolina which
relate to the care, treatment or impounding of animals.
   (B)   The animal control officer shall be charged with certain duties
including:
      (1)   Seeing that all dogs in the town are duly licensed;
      (2)   Cooperating with the Johnston County Health Director and health
officers and assisting them in the enforcement of the laws of the State of
North Carolina with regard to the care, custody and control of animals, and
especially with regard to the vaccination of dogs against rabies and the
confinement or leashing of vicious animals;
      (3)   Investigating complaints with regard to matters covered by this
chapter; and
      (4)   Enforcing within the town all of the state laws and ordinances
enacted by the town for the care, control and custody of animals covered by
this chapter.
   (C)   Except as may otherwise be provided by statute or local law or
ordinance, no official, agent or employee of the municipality charged with the
duty of enforcing the provisions of this chapter or other applicable law shall
be personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a
result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of such duties unless
he or she acted with actual malice.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder or
molest any animal control officer, police officer, veterinarian or other duly
appointed agent while in the performance of any duty authorized by this
chapter, or to seek to release any animal in the custody of said agents except
in the manner as herein provided.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-11-1993) 
Penalty, see § 94.999
§ 94.003  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meaning respectively, ascribed to them by this section. Whenever the
singular tense is used, the term shall be deemed to include the plural; the
masculine gender shall be deemed to include female; and vice versa. Words used
in the present tense include the future and the word SHALL is mandatory, not
directory.
   ANIMAL. Any live, vertebrate creature, domestic or wild.
   ANIMAL AT LARGE or STRAY. Any animal off the premises of his or her owner
and not under restraint, or any animal within the town wandering lost which
does not have an owner.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person designated as such to perform the duties
described by this chapter.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any facility designated by the Town Council for the purpose
of impounding or caring for animals under authority of this chapter.
   DOMESTICATED ANIMAL. Any animal kept, cared for, sheltered, fed or harbored
for the use as a pet, work or as a source of food, raw materials or income,
including, but not limited to cats, cows, dogs, fowl, horses, sheep and
domesticated wild animals; except, however, that this definition is not
intended to include hogs or pigs so as to permit the keeping, maintenance or
housing of such swine within the corporate limits of the town.
   KENNEL. A commercial establishment wherein any person, for profit buys,
sells, boards, breeds, lets for hire, or trains, for a fee, dogs. This shall
not include the ownership of dogs which are part of the household or which are
maintained adjoining a private residence for hunting, tracking practice,
exhibition or the guarding or protection of the owner's property when no more
than 5 dogs per year are sold by such owner .
   OWNER. Any person, group of persons, firm partnership, or corporation,
owning, keeping, harboring, possessing, or acting as custodian of an animal. An
animal shall be deemed to be harbored if it is fed or sheltered for 3
consecutive days or more.
   PET. A domesticated animal kept for pleasure rather than utility pets
include, but are not limited to birds, cats, dogs, fish, hamsters, mice,
reptiles, domesticated wild animals and other animals associated with man's
environment.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal or group of animals which:
      (1)   Is repeatedly found at large;
      (2)   Damages the property of anyone other than its owner, including, but
not limited to, turning over garbage containers or damaging gardens, flowers or
vegetables;
      (3)   Is a vicious animal;
      (4)   Causes fouling of the air by odors;
      (5)   Causes unsanitary condition of enclosures or surroundings;
      (6)   By virtue of number or type is offensive or dangerous to the public
health, safety, or welfare;
      (7)   Barks, whines or howls in an excessive, continuous or untimely
fashion;
      (8)   Is diseased and dangerous to the public health;
      (9)   Habitually or repeatedly chases, snaps at, attacks or barks at
pedestrians, bicyclists or vehicles; or
      (10)   Runs at large while in heat.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal which constitutes a physical threat to human
beings or other animals by virtue of attacks of such number and severity as to
cause property damage or physical injury.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any live monkey (non-human primate), raccoon, skunk, fox,
poisonous snake, leopard, panther, tiger, lion, lynx, or any other warmblooded
animal which can normally be found in the wild state.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-11-1993)
§ 94.004  ANIMALS OR FOWL BANNED FROM SALE; COLORING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale, barter
or give away within the corporate limits of the town, baby chickens, baby
ducklings or other fowl under 6 weeks of age or rabbits under 8 weeks of age as
pets, toys, premiums or novelties; provided, however, that this section shall
not be construed to prohibit the sale or display of such baby chickens,
ducklings or other fowl or such rabbits in proper facilities by breeders or
stores engaged in the business of selling for purposes other than for pets or
novelties.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to color, dye, stain or otherwise change the
natural color of baby chickens or other fowl or rabbits.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-11-1993) 
Penalty, see § 94.999
§ 94.005  CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to mistreat, drive or work, or
allow to be worked, any beast of burden that is physically disabled for labor
or work.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to work or allow to be worked, any
beast of burden, or to compel same to work after having been notified by the
animal control officer to discontinue the working of such animal.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-11-1993) 
Penalty, see § 94.999
§ 94.006  INJURING ANIMALS, NOTICE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person injuring an animal by running over, or
into, same or coming into contact with same, with an automobile, motorcycle,
bicycle or other vehicles, to fail to stop at once and render such assistance
as may be possible and to notify immediately the owner of said animal, the
animal control officer, the police department or a local humane society of the
town.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-11-1993) 
Penalty, see § 94.999
§ 94.007  TEASING AND MOLESTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tease, molest, bait or in any way
bother any animal not owned by him or her or legally under his or her control.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-11-1993) 
Penalty, see § 94.999
§ 94.008  KEEPING SWINE PROHIBITED.
   Notwithstanding anything contained hereunder, it shall be unlawful, for any
person to keep, maintain or house any hogs, or pigs within the town limits.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-11-1993) 
Penalty, see § 94.999
§ 94.009  STANDARDS; KENNELS.
   (A)   Generally. All kennels as defined herein shall, in addition to the
other requirements of the chapter comply with the minimum standards of this
section. Willful failure of the owner or operator to meet these standards shall
be grounds for denial or revocation of a license and shall be unlawful.
   (B)   Standards.
      (1)   Building.  Enclosures must be provided which shall allow adequate
protection against extreme weather conditions. Floors of building, runs and
walls shall be of an impervious material or otherwise constructed so as to
permit proper cleaning and disinfecting. Healthful building temperatures shall
be maintained constantly.
      (2)   Cages and runs.  Each animal shall have sufficient space to stand
up, lie down and turn around without touching the sides or top of cages. Cages
are to be of material and construction that permits cleaning and sanitizing.
Cage floors of concrete, unless radiantly heated, shall have a resting board or
some type of bedding. Runs shall provide an adequate exercise area and
protection from the weather. Runs shall have an impervious surface. All animal
quarters and runs are to be kept clean, dry and in a sanitary condition.
      (3)   Feeding.  The food shall be free from contamination, wholesome,
palatable and of sufficient quantity and nutritive value to meet the normal
daily requirements for the condition and size of the animal.
      (4)   Watering of animals.  All animals shall have fresh water available
at all times. Water vessels shall be mounted or secured in a manner that
prevents tipping and be of the removable type.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-11-1993) 
Penalty, see § 94.999
§ 94.010  LICENSES FOR KENNELS.
   (A)   Required.  It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a kennel in
the town without possessing a valid kennel license; provided however, that
veterinary hospitals or clinics, research facilities where bona fide medical
related research (dental, veterinary, pharmaceutical or biological) is being
conducted, humane shelters, and other animal establishments operated by state
or local governments or which are licensed by federal law are hereby excluded
from the kennel licensing requirements of this section.
   (B)   Application.  An application for a kennel license shall be on a form
provided by the town and shall state the name and address of the kennel, its
owner and its operator, and the maximum number of dogs to be housed in the
kennel.
   (C)   Issuance.  The annual license fees for kennel operators shall be
imposed pursuant to the provisions of this code relating to merchants and
service establishments.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-11-1993) 
Penalty, see § 94.999
   DOGS
§ 94.025  DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to allow such animal to be off
the premises of  his or her owner and not under restraint in the town.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-11-1993) 
Penalty, see § 94.999
§ 94.026  CONFINEMENT OF FEMALE DOGS IN HEAT.
   Every female dog, while in heat, shall be confined in a building or secure
enclosure in such manner that she will not be in contact with another dog, nor
create a nuisance by attracting other animals; provided, this section shall not
be construed to prohibit the intentional breeding of animals within an enclosed
area on the premises of the owner of an animal being bred.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-11-1993) 
Penalty, see § 94.999
§ 94.027  KEEPING STRAY DOGS; REQUIREMENTS; FAILURE TO SURRENDER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in the town to knowingly and
intentionally harbor, feed, or keep in possession by confinement or otherwise,
any dog, which does not belong to him or her, unless he or she has, within 24
hours from the time such dog came into his or her possession, notified the
police department. Upon receiving such notice, the police department shall take
such dog and place it in the animal shelter and shall deal with it, as
provided.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to surrender any such
stray dog to an authorized representative of the police department upon demand.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-11-1993) 
Penalty, see § 94.999
CHICKEN COOPS
§ 94.030  CHICKEN COOPS.
   (A)   Sanitation for chickens. Any persons who keeps, feeds or maintains
chickens in the corporate limits shall provide a bin or a pit which shall be
watertight and fly-proof, or a watertight barrel with a close-fitting lid.
Manure accumulating shall be placed in the bin, pit or barrel each day, and the
manure shall be removed and discarded as household waste at least once a week.
Likewise, uneaten feed shall be placed in the bin, pit or barrel each day, and
removed at the intervals specified above for manure. The slaughter of chickens
for personal use is allowed only on the property where the chickens are kept.
The slaughter must be performed in a sanitary manner with the immediate proper
disposal of all waste materials. Any dead chickens, not from slaughter, shall
be placed and sealed in a plastic bag upon discovery and discarded with other
household waste.
   (B)   Sheltering and limits on the type and number of chickens.
      (1)   Enclosed run. Chickens shall be kept in an enclosed run and shall
not roam free on the property. Said enclosure shall be a minimum of 4 feet in
height and must be enclosed on all sides and the top with wire mesh fencing.
The enclosed run shall provide at least 10 square feet of run area per chicken.
Any access gates or other access openings in the enclosed run shall be self-
closing, self-latching and lockable.
      (2)   Coop. The coop shall be constructed of solid material and shall be
located within the enclosed run or constructed and located so as only to
provide ingress/egress for the chickens into the enclosed run. The coop shall
provide a minimum of 3 square feet of floor area per chicken and shall be a
minimum of 2 feet in height per floor or level where chickens are housed.
      (3)   Number, type and purpose. Chickens may be kept at a single-family
residence that is zoned residential. It shall be an accessory use for any
property classified in one of the residential zoning districts. The maximum
number of chickens that can be kept on any residentially zoned property within
the corporate limits of the city shall be 10 if there is enough square footage
to meet the above requirements for run and coop space and the setback
requirements below. All chickens shall be hens; no roosters are permitted. No
other fowl including, but not limited to, ducks, geese or turkeys are
permitted.  All chickens and by-products shall be used for personal use and not
sold commercially.
      (4)   Enclosed run and coop materials. The enclosed run and coop shall be
maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.  The chickens shall have constant
access to feed, clean water and bedding. All solid materials and fencing used
in conjunction with the construction of the coop and enclosed run shall be
suitable for exposure to moisture without deterioration and shall be conducive
to regular cleaning and sanitation. Without limiting the materials that can be
used, examples meeting this requirement are pressure treated wood, painted
wood, wood frame with metal or vinyl siding, asphalt shingle roofing and metal
roofing for the coop and galvanized or vinyl mesh fencing and fencing supports
for the enclosed run.  The coop shall be constructed to keep out predators.
      (5)   Setbacks for the keeping of chickens.  The enclosed run or coop
keeping the chickens shall be in the rear yard and shall be no closer to the
street than the rear yard of the dwelling or principal structure and at no time
may be closer than 25 feet from any adjacent property lines.
      (6)   Permit required for the keeping of chickens. A zoning permit for
accessory use issued by the Code Enforcement Officer is necessary prior to
constructing and/or erecting the enclosed run and/or coop. Submittal
requirements shall include, but not be limited to, a scaled site plan showing
all property lines and existing structures, the proposed enclosure, run  and/or
coop, the distance from the property lines to the proposed enclosure, run and/
or coop, as well as a sketch or elevation(s) of the planned enclosure and/or
coop design and a materials list indicating what the enclosure, run and/or coop
will be constructed of.  Any and all state requirements shall be complied with
as well.
      (7)   Permit renewal and revocation. The zoning permit shall
automatically renew annually. Should two confirmed/sustained notices of
violations (NOVs) concerning violations of the ordinance within a one year
period, the permit shall be automatically revoked. Upon permit revocation, the
property owner shall be prohibited from keeping or applying for a permit to
keep chickens or other fowl for a period of 2 years. Following the 2 year
period, the property owner may re-apply for a permit which will include an
application fee.
(Ord. 18-04, passed 9-10-2018)
   NUISANCE ANIMALS
§ 94.040  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Complaint and notice.  Upon receipt of a written detailed and signed
complaint being mad to the police department by any resident or residents that
any person is maintaining a public nuisance as defined in § 94.003 of this
chapter, the Chief of Police shall cause the owner of the animal or animals in
question to be notified that a complaint has been received, and shall cause the
situation complained of to be investigated and a report and findings thereon to
be reduced to writing by the investigating officer.
   (B)   Abatement. If the written findings of the investigating officer
indicate that the complaint is justified, the Chief of Police shall cause the
owner or keeper of the animal or animals in question to be so notified in
writing, and ordered to abate such nuisance within 48 hours  by whatever means
may be necessary.  In the event the owner of the animal or animals is unknown
and cannot be ascertained, the notice and order, along with a general
description of the animal or animals shall be posted for 48 hours at the
municipal building/town office.
   (C)   Impoundment upon failure to abate; destruction. If any person
receiving notice in the manner hereinabove described shall fail or refuse to
abate the nuisance upon order for the Chief of Police within the specified
time, the Police Chief may cause the animal or animals in question to be
apprehended and impounded in accordance with the provisions of §§ 94.065
through 94.073 of this chapter.  If the owner shall so request, the animal or
animals may be redeemed pursuant to the provisions of § 94.068 and upon further
condition that the owner execute a written agreement to comply with the
abatement order.  If no redemption  and execution is made by the owner within
the time specified under § 94.067, provisions of § 94.069 hereunder apply.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-11-1993) 
Penalty, see § 94.999
   WILD ANIMALS
§ 94.050  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall have, keep or maintain any wild, exotic, dangerous or non-
domestic animal or reptile without first applying to and receiving from the
police department a permit to do so.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-11-1993) 
Penalty, see § 94.999
§ 94.051  AUTHORITY OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The police department is hereby invested with the authority to issue
permits to any person for the keeping or maintaining of any wild, exotic,
dangerous or non-domestic animal or reptile when, in the opinion of the animal
control officer, any such animal or reptile may be kept or maintained without
menacing the safety of any person or property.  The police department may
require any such animal or reptile for which a permit is issued to be properly
caged or secured; make additional rules or regulations regulating the care and
maintenance of any such animal or reptile in order to protect the public
health, safety and welfare; and may revoke any such permit for violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter or any of the rules and regulations of the
police department or when; in the opinion of the animal control officer, the
health, safety, or welfare of any person or property is menaced by the keeping
of such animal or reptile.
   (B)   The police department shall also have authority to issue permits for
the keeping or maintaining of, on a temporary basis, of all types of wild
animals or reptiles in connection with a carnival, circus, fair, zoo, amusement
enterprise or animal exhibition when located in a district wherein such uses
are permitted.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-11-1993)
   IMPOUNDMENT, CONFINEMENT, AND DISPOSITION
§ 94.065  WHEN ANIMAL IMPOUNDED.
   (A)   Domesticated animals, other than dogs, may be impounded when found at
large or when constituting a public nuisance.
   (B)   A dog found at large shall be impounded. In addition, a dog may be
impounded if found to constitute a public nuisance.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-11-1993)
§ 94.066  NOTICE TO OWNER OF IMPOUNDED ANIMAL.
   (A)   Upon impounding an animal with an identification tag, the animal
control officer shall within 3 days notify the animal's owner.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-11-1993)
   (B)   If the owner of the animal is unknown, then no later than 3 days after
an animal is impounded, a written or printed notice stating that the animal is
in the town’s possession and will be turned over the Johnsotn County Animal
Shelter if not redeemed by the owner within the applicable period of
redemption, and containing the following information, shall also be posted on
the bulletin board of the police department:
A description of  the animal including breed, color, and sex; the date, time,
and place that the animal was picked up; the date and time of posting the
notice; and the time and date that the animal will be turned over to the
Johnston County Animal Control if not redeemed.
(Am. Ord. passed 9-13-2004)
§ 94.067  PERIODS OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Domesticated animals, including dogs, shall be impounded for no less than 3
days. Such animals shall be impounded in a humane manner.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-11-1993)
§ 94.068  REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMAL.
   (A)   The owner of an impounded animal shall be entitled to redeem such
animal, except as provided in §§ 94.065 through 94.073, upon compliance with
the license provisions of this chapter, the payment of all redemption fees, and
upon furnishing proof of ownership.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-11-1993)
   (B)   Redemption fees as provided in this section shall be $10 per day for
each animal plus a $25 fee penalty.  This fee and penalty does not include
applicable charges for any license, registration, or inoculation that may be
required by this chapter or other applicable law. If the animal redeemed is not
properly licensed, registered, or inoculated, the owner shall secure the
necessary license or registration and have the animal inoculated.
(Am. Ord. passed 9-13-2004)
   (C)   For each animal that is impounded more than 1 time within a 12-month
period, the fee for taking up and boarding such animal shall be increased by
$10.
(Am. Ord. passed 9-13-2004)
   (D)   No fees whatsoever shall be charged or collected for or on account of
any animal which has been unlawfully taken up or impounded, and any such animal
shall be immediately delivered upon demand therefore to the owner or person
entitled to the custody thereof.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-11-1993)
§ 94.069  DISPOSITION OF UNREDEEMED ANIMALS.
   (A)   If an animal is not redeemed by the owner during the applicable period
of redemption, such animal shall be disposed of according to the following
provisions:
      (1)   The time for redemption shall not begin to run until the notice,
defined under § 94.066 has been given or posted.
      (2)   If any animal is not redeemed, the animal control officer may turn
the animal over to the Johnston County Animal Control for possible adoption or
disposal.
   (B)   All proceeds derived from any redemption by the animal control officer
shall be turned over to the town.  These funds will be returned to the animal
control budget for future use during the current fiscal year.
   (C)   Any dog impounded which appears to be suffering from rabies or if
affected with rabies shall not be redeemed by shall be turned over to Johnston
County for further observation.  If it is determined that the animal is not
affected with rabies, its owner must redeem the animal through Johnston County
Animal Control and follow all of the county’s applicable procedures.  If
determined that the animal is affected with disease, Johnston County Animal
Control will destroy the animal in a humane manner.
(Am. Ord. passed 9-13-2004)
§ 94.070  RECORDS OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   A record of each animal impounded shall be kept showing the date of receipt
of such animal, the date and manner of its disposition and, if redeemed,
reclaimed or sold, the name of the person by whom redeemed, reclaimed or
purchased, the address of such person and the amounts of all fees received or
collected for or because of the impounding, reclaiming or purchasing thereof,
together with the number of any license tag and the date of any license
exhibited or issued upon the redemption or sale of any such animal.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-11-1993)
§ 94.071  PROCEDURE UPON SUSPICION OF RABIES.
   (A)   (1)   Any animal which shows symptoms of rabies or which has bitten
anyone shall be penned up immediately by its owner or by the person having
charge of the animal or by the person sheltering, feeding, harboring or taking
care of said animal, and the animal control officer or Johnston County Health
Director shall be notified immediately.
      (2)   The animal shall be confined in a place and under conditions
approved by the animal control officer or Johnston County Health Director for
not less than 10 days. The animal shall be subject to observation by the animal
control officer or person designated by him or her at all times during said
period. An owner confining an animal on private property shall execute a waiver
of any and all liability of the town, its agents or employees for any injury to
person or property arising out of or by reason of such confinement.
   (B)   In lieu of the provisions of division (A) above, the owner of any such
animal may, at his or her own expense, take such animal to any duly qualified
and licensed veterinarian to be placed under observation for a period of 10
days at the expense of the owner or allow the animal to be impounded under the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   All animals confined for suspicion of rabies as hereinabove provided
shall be securely penned and separated from other animals at all times.
   (D)   If rabies does not develop within the aforesaid period of confinement,
then the animal shall be released to his or her owner. But if symptoms develop
justifying microscopic examination, then the animal shall be destroyed in a
humane manner by the animal control officer or licensed veterinarian.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-11-1993)
§ 94.072  ANIMALS; DISPOSAL OF.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the animal control officer to humanely destroy
any animal lawfully taken into custody which in the opinion of the animal
control officer is by reason of old age, unfit for further use, or which is
affected with any dangerous or communicable disease, or which is in an
incurable crippled condition, or which is adjudged by a written report of a
licensed veterinarian to be afflicted with any painful or incurable disease.
   (B)   The animal control officer shall issue and sign an authorization for
the destruction by a police officer of any animal inflicted with any dangerous
or communicable disease or which is determined to be dangerous to the health,
safety and welfare of the community.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-11-1993)
§ 94.073  DISPOSAL OF ANIMAL CARCASSES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner of animals that die from any cause
and the owner, lessee, or person in control of any land upon which any animal
dies, to bury the same to a depth of at least 3 feet beneath the surface of the
ground within 24 hours after knowledge of the death of said animal, or to
otherwise dispose of the same in a manner approved by the animal control
officer; provided, however, that no animal may be buried closer than 300 feet
to any water supply intended for human consumption.
   (B)   The animal control officer or Director of Public Works, upon request
of any person or otherwise, may pick up and dispose of any animal carcass
within the town. When the owner of an animal, the carcass of which is disposed
of by a public agency, can be identified, he or she shall be billed for the
cost of the disposition.
   (C)   No person shall place or leave the carcass of any dead animal or fowl
in any street, alley or lot, or allow the same to remain on his or her lot.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-11-1993) 
Penalty, see § 94.999
   ADMINISTRATION
§ 94.085  LICENSES; GENERALLY.
   (A)   Licenses; refusal to issue when application is in violation of laws. 
Any license provided for in this chapter may be denied on the recommendation of
the town administration where the applicant misrepresents a fact relevant to
his or her qualification for a license or refuses to provide information
necessary to determine if this facility meets the minimum required standards or
such issuance would violate any applicable local, state or federal rule,
regulation, ordinance or law.
   (B)   Same; revocation of holding facility licenses.  Any holding facility
license issued pursuant to this chapter may be revoked on the recommendation of
the town administration if the licensee fails to comply with any provision of
this chapter.
   (C)   Same; notice of and appeals from decision of agencies.  Notice of
recommendation not to issue a license under this chapter or to revoke a license
shall be given to the licensee. Administrative appeals shall be, first, to the
Director of Finance and then the Town Manager. An appeal of a decision to
recommend the revocation of a license shall suspend the operation of that
decision.
   (D)   Unauthorized use of license receipts, tags or inoculation
certificates.  It shall be unlawful for any person to use for any dog or
holding facility license, license receipts, license tags, or rabies inoculation
certificate issued to another person, dog or facility.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-11-1993) 
Penalty, see § 94.999
§ 94.086  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement of chapter.  The provisions of the chapter shall be
enforced by the animal control officer and those officers designated in this
chapter, under the operational supervision of the police department pursuant to
policies established by the Town Council.
   (B)   Inspections.  Whenever it is necessary to make an inspection to
enforce any of the provisions of or perform any duty imposed by this chapter,
or other applicable law, or whenever the animal control officer has reasonable
cause to, believe that there exists in any building or upon any premises any
violation of the provisions of this chapter or other applicable law, the animal
control officer is hereby empowered to enter such property at any reasonable
time and to inspect the same and perform any duty imposed upon the animal
control officer by this chapter or other applicable law, but only if the
consent of the occupant or owner of the property is freely given or a search or
inspection warrant is obtained as hereinafter provided:
      (1)   If such property be occupied, he or she shall first present
credentials to the occupant and request entry, explaining his or her reasons
thereof; and
      (2)   If such property be unoccupied, he or she shall first make a
reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control
of the property, present proper credentials and request entry, explaining his
or her reasons therefor; and
      (3)   If such entry is refused or cannot be obtained because the owner or
other person having charge or control of the property cannot be found after due
diligence, the animal control officer shall obtain a warrant to conduct a
search or inspection of the property.
   (C)   Impounding; duty of animal control officer and police.  It shall be
the duty of the animal control officer to take up and impound in the animal
shelter, and it shall be the duty of the members of the police department on
duty during the hours when the animal shelter is open, to take up and
immediately deliver to the animal control officer or to notify the animal
control officer of the presence of those animals which are authorized and
directed to be taken up and impounded by this chapter or which are found or
kept contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Licenses; right to sue for recovery, unpaid license tax or fee.  The
amount of any license tax or fee imposed by this chapter shall be deemed a debt
to the town. Any person owning any dog or operating a holding facility in the
town without having first obtained the required license shall be liable in an
action on behalf of the town in any court of competent jurisdiction for the
amount of any license tax or penalty imposed by and required by this chapter to
be paid for the privilege of keeping and having such dog or operating a pet
shop, pet grooming shop, kennel or combination thereof. The animal control
officer is authorized to cause a complaint to be filed against any person
violating any of the provisions of this chapter and to cause an action to be
brought against any person failing to pay any license tax required by the
provisions of this chapter for the recovery of such tax and penalty, if any.
Such action shall be cumulative and shall not be deemed as a bar to or a waiver
of the right to institute any other civil or criminal proceeding for a
violation of this chapter.
   (E)   Citation and warning notice of violation; procedure.
      (1)   Citations. In discharging his or her duties under this chapter, the
animal control officer is hereby empowered to issue citations to any person if
there is reasonable cause to believe that he or she has violated any of the
provisions of this chapter. Citations so issued may be delivered in person to
the violator by the animal control officer or they may be mailed to the person
so charged if he or she cannot be readily found. Any citation so delivered or
mailed shall direct the alleged violator to answer the charge against him or
her on or before a specific day and hour named in the citation; and the period
so specified shall be not less than 72 hours after its delivery or mailing to
the violator.
      (2)   Forms and records of animal control citations. The animal control
officer shall cause all citation forms to be serially numbered in triplicate.
The records with respect to the said citation forms and the disposition of the
same shall be maintained so that all such forms shall be capable of being
accounted for.
      (3)   Warning notice.  If an alleged violator of any section of this
chapter does not appear in response to the citation described in division (A),
above, at or before the day and hour named in said citation, the town police
department shall cause to be sent to such violator a notice informing him or
her of the violation; warning him or her that he or she will be held
responsible to appear in answer to said citation; and that, in the event that
such citation and notice is disregarded for a period of 5 days a complaint may
be filed and a warrant of arrest issued.
      (4)   Suit or arrest or default.  If a violator does not appear in
response to the above described citation and notice, the animal control officer
may forthwith have a civil complaint filed against such person for collection
of the penalty pursuant to § 94.999(C) or secure a warrant for his or her
arrest as provided hereunder. The arrest warrant shall be for the violation of
the section of this chapter charged in the citation and, upon conviction, the
defendant shall be subject to the penalties prescribed by §
94.999(A).
(Ord. 121, passed 11-11-1993)
   (F)   Requirement that records be kept.  It shall be the duty of the animal
control officer to keep the following records:
      (1)   Accurate and detailed records of all reported bite cases, and all
violation and complaint investigations for a period of 3 years;
      (2)   Accurate and detailed records of the licensing, impounding, and
disposition of all animals coming into his or her custody pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   Accurate and detailed records of all monies belonging to the town
which were derived from fees, penalties and sales of animals;
      (4)   All other records deemed necessary by the Police Chief or Town
Manager. Detailed monthly reports will be prepared and forwarded to the Town
Council by the fifteenth of the following month.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-11-1993)
§ 94.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor
and any person convicted of such violation shall be punishable as provided in
G.S. § 14-4. Each day's violation of this chapter is a separate offense.
Payment of a fine imposed in criminal proceedings pursuant to this subsection
does not relieve a person of his or her liability for taxes or fees imposed
under this chapter.
   (B)   In addition, enforcement of this chapter may be by appropriate
equitable remedy, injunction or order of abatement issuing from a court of
competent jurisdiction pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175(d) and (e).
   (C)   In addition, violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject
the offender to a civil penalty of $5. Any penalty levied hereunder shall be
recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender
does not pay the penalty within the time allowed under §
94.086(E).
   (D)   Penalty for violating §
94.030 in any part shall result in a civil penalty of $50 per day per
violation.
(Ord. 121, passed 11-11-1993; Am. Ord. 18-04, passed 9-10-2018)
CHAPTER 95:  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
95.01   Purpose
   
95.02   Territorial applicability
   
95.03   Determination of state of emergency; restrictions authorized
   
95.04   Proclamation imposing prohibitions and restrictions
   
95.05   Evacuation
   
95.06   Curfew
   
95.07   Restrictions on possession, consumption or transfer of alcoholic
beverage
   
95.08   Restrictions on possession, transportation and transfer of dangerous
weapons and substances
   
95.09   Restriction to access areas
   
95.10   Effect of proclamation
   
95.11   Amendments of proclamation
   
95.12   Removal of prohibitions and restrictions
   
95.13   Separate and superseding proclamations
   
95.14   Absence or disability of Mayor
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01  PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to establish emergency
management procedures to ensure the complete and efficient utilization of all
resources and authority in the event of an emergency or disaster.
   (B)   This chapter shall not abridge or modify the authority of the Governor
or his or her delegates to implement emergency measures during declared states
of emergency.
(Ord. 16-02, passed 3-14-2016)
§ 95.02  TERRITORIAL APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply within the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 16-02, passed 3-14-2016)
§ 95.03  DETERMINATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY; RESTRICTIONS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever during times of
public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe or similar public emergency, for
any reason, public safety authorities are unable to maintain public order or
afford adequate protection for lives, safety or property, or whenever the
occurrence of any such condition is imminent.
   (B)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health arid welfare of the people within the
town or threatening damages to or destruction of property, the Mayor is hereby
authorized and empowered under G.S. §§ 14-288.1, 14-288.20A, 166A-19.3, 166A-
19.22 and 166A-31 to issue a public proclamation declaring to all persons the
existence of such a state of emergency and, in order to more effectively
protect the lives and property of people within the county, to place in effect
any or all of the restrictions hereinafter authorized. The Mayor shall fully
utilize all available emergency service and management personnel.
   (C)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit by declaration
the application of all or any part of such restrictions to any area
specifically designated or describe within the town and to specific hours of
the day or night; and to exempt from all or any part of such restrictions,
while acting in the line of and within the scope of their respective duties,
commissioners, law enforcement officers, firemen, public employees, rescue
squad members, doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals and other medical
facilities; on-duty employees of public utilities, public transportation
companies and newspaper, magazine, radio broadcasting and television
broadcasting corporations operated for profit; and such other classes of
persons as may be essential to the preservation of public order and immediately
necessary to serve the safety, health and welfare needs of the people within
the town.
(Ord. 16-02, passed 3-14-2016)
§ 95.04  PROCLAMATION IMPOSING PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor, by proclamation, may impose the prohibitions and
restrictions specified in §§
95.05 through
95.10 in the manner described in those sections. The Mayor may impose as many
of the specified prohibitions and restrictions as are determined to be
necessary, because of an emergency, to maintain an acceptable level of public
order and services, and to protect lives, safety and property. The Mayor shall
recite his findings in the proclamation.
   (B)   The proclamation shall be in writing. The Mayor shall take reasonable
steps to give notice of the terms of the proclamation to those affected by it,
including the media and emergency communications systems. The Mayor shall
retain a text of the proclamation and furnish upon request certified copies of
it for use as evidence. The Mayor shall immediately notify the County Director
of Emergency Services, Town Commissioners, and the Town Manager of the issuance
of the proclamation.
(Ord. 16-02, passed 3-14-2016)
§ 95.05  EVACUATION.
   The Mayor may direct and compel the voluntary or mandatory evacuation of all
or part of the population of the town; to prescribe routes, modes of
transportation and destination in connection with evacuation; and to control
ingress and egress of a disaster area, the movement of persons within the area
and the occupancy of premises therein. Details of the evacuation may be set
forth or amended in a subsequent proclamation which shall be well publicized.
(Ord. 16-02, passed 3-14-2016)
§ 95.06  CURFEW.
   (A)   The proclamation may impose a curfew prohibiting, in certain areas and
during certain periods, the appearance in public of anyone who is not a member
of an exempted class. The proclamation shall specify the geographical area or
areas and the period during each 24-hour day to which the curfew applies. The
Mayor may exempt from some or all of the curfew restrictions classes of people
whose exemptions the Mayor finds necessary for the preservation of the public
health, safety and welfare. The proclamation shall state the exempted classes
and the restrictions from which is exempted.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified in the proclamation, the curfew shall apply
during the specified period each day until the Mayor, by additional
proclamation, removes the curfew.
(Ord. 16-02, passed 3-14-2016)
§ 95.07  RESTRICTIONS ON POSSESSION, CONSUMPTION OR TRANSFER OF ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGE.
   The proclamation may prohibit the possession or consumption of any alcoholic
beverage, including beer, wine, and spirituous liquor, other than on one's own
premises and may prohibit the transfer, transportation, sale or purchase of any
alcoholic beverage within the area of the town described in the proclamation.
The prohibition, if imposed, may apply to transfer of alcoholic beverages by
employees of alcoholic beverage control stores as well as by anyone else within
the geographical area described.
(Ord. 16-02, passed 3-14-2016)
§ 95.08  RESTRICTIONS ON POSSESSION, TRANSPORTATION AND TRANSFER OF DANGEROUS
WEAPONS AND SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   The proclamation may prohibit the transportation or possession off
one's own premises or the sale or purchase of any dangerous weapon or
substance. The Mayor may exempt from some or all of the restrictions classes of
people whose possession, transfer or transportation of certain dangerous
weapons or substances is necessary to the preservation of the public's health,
safety or welfare. The proclamation shall state the exempted classes and the
restrictions from which each is exempted.
   (B)   DANGEROUS WEAPON OR SUBSTANCE means:
      (1)   Any item described as a dangerous weapon or substance, as defined
in G.S. § 14-288.1;
      (2)   Any other instrument or substance that is capable of being used to
inflict serious bodily injury or destruction of property when the circumstances
indicate that there is some probability that such instrument or substance will
be so used;
      (3)   Any part or ingredient in any instrument or substance included
above when the circumstances indicate a probability that such a part or
ingredient will be so used;
      (4)   Except that this section does not authorize prohibitions or
restrictions on lawfully possessed firearms or ammunition. As used in this
section, FIREARM has the same meaning as it does under G.S. § 14-409.39(2).
   (C)   If imposed, the restrictions shall apply throughout the jurisdiction
of the town or such part thereof as designated in the proclamation.
   (D)   A violation of this section shall be punishable as provided in G.S. §
14-288.7.
(Ord. 16-02, passed 3-14-2016)
§ 95.09  RESTRICTION TO ACCESS AREAS.
   (A)   The proclamation may prohibit obtaining access or attempting to obtain
access to any area designated in the manner described in this section in
violation of any order, clearly posted notice or barricade indicating that
access is denied or restricted.
   (B)   Areas to which access is denied or restricted shall be designated by
the Chief of Police and his subordinates when directed and specified in the
proclamation to do so by the Mayor. When acting under this authority, the Chief
of Police and his subordinates may restrict or deny access to any area, street,
highway or location within the town if that restriction or denial of access or
use is reasonable necessary to promote efforts being made to overcome the
emergency or to prevent further aggravation of the emergency.
(Ord. 16-02, passed 3-14-2016)
§ 95.10  EFFECT OF PROCLAMATION.
   The proclamation issued under this chapter may prohibit or restrict all or
any of the following:
   (A)   Movement of people in public places;
   (B)   The operation of offices, business establishments and other places to
or from which people may travel or at which they may congregate;
   (C)   Other activities or conditions the control of which may be reasonably
necessary to maintain order and protect lives or property during the state of
emergency, within the area designated in the proclamation.
(Ord. 16-02, passed 3-14-2016)
§ 95.11  AMENDMENTS OF PROCLAMATION.
   The Mayor may amend or extend the proclamation issued under this chapter
from time to time, making such modifications as would have been authorized to
include in the original proclamation.
(Ord. 16-02, passed 3-14-2016)
§ 95.12  REMOVAL OF PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The Mayor shall, by additional proclamation, remove the prohibition and
restrictions when it has been determined that the emergency no longer requires
them, when emergency conditions have abated or when directed to do so by the
Town Council.
(Ord. 16-02, passed 3-14-2016)
§ 95.13  SEPARATE AND SUPERSEDING PROCLAMATIONS.
   The Mayor, in his discretion, may invoke the restrictions authorized by this
chapter in separate proclamation, and may amend any proclamation by means of
superseding proclamation.
(Ord. 16-02, passed 3-14-2016)
§ 95.14  ABSENCE OR DISABILITY OF MAYOR.
   In case of the absence or disability of the Mayor, the Mayor-Pro-Tem shall
have and exercise all of the powers given the Mayor by this chapter.
(Ord. 16-02, passed 3-14-2016)
§ 95.99  PENALTY.
   Except as provided in §
95.08(D), any person violating any prohibition or restriction imposed by a
proclamation authorized by this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable upon conviction by a fine not to exceed $500 and/or imprisonment not
exceeding 30 days, as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 16-02, passed 3-14-2016)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
         
112.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
         
113.   TAXICABS
         
114.   CABLE TELEVISION
         
115.   LICENSES
CHAPTER 110:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Police Department authorized to act as agent for business owners
Game Rooms
   
110.15   Definitions
   
110.16   Regulatory license required
   
110.17   Display of privilege license
   
110.18   Rules for operation of game room
   
110.19   Notice and hearing previous to revocation or denial
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01  POLICE DEPARTMENT AUTHORIZED TO ACT AS AGENT FOR BUSINESS OWNERS.
   The Kenly Police Department is hereby authorized to act as the agent for any
business owner or resident of the Town of Kenly who executes an AUTHORIZATION
TO ACT AS AGENT form, the form being on file with the town.  The Kenly Police
Department is authorized to take the actions set forth in the authorization and
to act on behalf of the individual(s) who sign the authorization.  This section
is to be effective and enforced as of 12-1-1990.
(Ord. 105, passed 11-12-1990)
GAME ROOMS
§ 110.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§ 110.15 et seq., the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT.  Police Department of the Town of Kenly.
   GAME ROOM.  Any place of business that operates 4 or more mechanical games
or pay devices for which charge is made directly or indirectly (included by way
of illustration, video games), provided that the games or pay devices shall not
include vending machines or photo laminating machine.
   INTERESTED PARTY.  Any person, partnership, or corporation which is an
applicant for a license or who is an employee of an applicant for a license,
any person who is a partner in a partnership which is an applicant for a
license and any person, partnership, or corporation which is an officer,
director, or principal stockholder of a corporation which is an applicant for a
license.
(Ord. 94, passed 11-14-1983)
§ 110.16  REGULATORY LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No interested party shall operate a game room as defined in § 110.15
unless the party shall have first applied for and received the regulatory
license provided by this section.
   (B)   Every application for the regulatory license prescribed herein shall
be upon a form approved by the Mayor and shall be filed with the Town Clerk. 
Every application shall be made under oath and shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The name, age, and residence of any interested party;
      (2)   The address of the premises where the business shall be located;
      (3)   The proposed hours of operation of the business;
      (4)   A complete statement of all criminal convictions of any interested
party;
      (5)   A description of any other business to be operated on the same
premises or an adjoining premises owned or controlled by the applicant; and
      (6)   A statement of any prior revocations of a license to operate a game
room or similar business.
   (C)   An application fee of shall be paid to and collected by the Town Clerk
when the application is submitted to cover the cost of processing the
application.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to operate a game room within the town without a
regulatory license as required by this section.
   (E)   The Town Clerk shall, within 5 business days, transmit a copy of the
application to the Police Department for an investigative report.  The Police
Department shall, within a reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days, report the
results of its examination to the Town Clerk.
   (F)   An application in proper form, accompanied by all reports, required by
this section, shall be submitted to the Town Council, which shall approve the
application if the Town Council that:
      (1)   The application contains no misstatement of fact;
      (2)   Any interested party has not been convicted of selling intoxicating
liquor or narcotic drugs or of violating any gambling laws of this state or of
violating any provisions of G.S. Ch. 14, Art. 37, or of violating any
comparable statute of any other state;
      (3)   The applicant conforms to all requirements of applicable zoning and
building codes; and
      (4)   Any interested party has not had revoked a previously issued
license for engaging in a business dealing with operating a game room.
   (G)   Upon approval of the application by the Town Council, the Clerk shall
issue a privilege regulatory license to the applicant.
   (H)   A regulatory license issued pursuant to this Section shall be revoked
by action of the Town Council if the Town Council determines that:
      (1)   The license has violated any provision of §§ 110.15 et seq.;
      (2)   The license or any interested party is convicted of selling
intoxicating liquor or narcotic drugs on the licensed premises;
      (3)   The license violates any zoning or building ordinance of the town
as the same apply to the premises;
      (4)   The licensee suffers or permits any gambling activity or the sale
or use of any racing, football, or other parlay cards or gambling boards or
devices on the licensed premises;
      (5)   The licensee suffers or permits the licensed premises to become
disorderly, or permits any profane, obscene, or indecent language thereon; and/
or
      (6)   The licensee employs, in carrying on the business, any person who
has been convicted of violating any gambling laws of the State of North
Carolina or of any other state.
   (I)   A license issued pursuant to §§ 110.15 et seq. shall become void if
the licensee moves or ceases to operate at the location required to be stated
in the application for the license, pursuant to division (B)(2) above.
(Ord. 94, passed 11-14-1983) 
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.17  DISPLAY OF PRIVILEGE LICENSE.
   It shall be the responsibility of all interested parties to ensure that the
license required by §§ 110.15 et seq. be prominently displayed within the
business.
(Ord. 94, passed 11-14-1983) 
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.18  RULES FOR OPERATION OF GAME ROOM.
   The following rules shall be observed by all operators of game rooms within
the Town of Kenly.
   (A)   All game rooms shall be closed from 11:00 p.m. until 7:00 a.m. Monday
through Thursday and shall close at 12:00 a.m. midnight on Fridays and
Saturdays.
   (B)   Game rooms may be open on Sunday only between the hours of 1:00 p.m.
and 11:00 p.m.
   (C)   No play on any game shall be allowed during the times when game rooms
are required by §§ 110.15 et seq. to remain closed.
   (D)   There must be an adult (18 years of age or older) managing the
business on the premises during hours of operation at all times.
   (E)   All game rooms shall be closed to minors during normal school hours
(that is, while any public school is in session.
   (F)   All game rooms shall be operated only on the ground floor of a
building, and windows shall be in a sufficient part of the building facing a
street, so that a clear view in side may be had from the street.
   (G)   No screens, curtains, blinds, partitions, or other obstructions shall
be placed between the entrance to the room where the game rooms are played and
the rear wall of the room so that a clear view of the interior may be had from
the street.
   (H)   No loud noises shall be allowed to emanate beyond the licensed
premises.
(Ord. 94, passed 11-14-1983) 
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.19  NOTICE AND HEARING PREVIOUS TO REVOCATION OR DENIAL.
   (A)   Before the Town Council revokes a license issued pursuant to §§ 110.15
et seq., or if the Town Council determines that reasonable grounds exist to
deny an application for a license pursuant to §§ 110.15 et seq., the Town
Council shall cause a written notice to be sent by certified mail to the
license or applicant affected, at the address stated in the license or
application.
   (B)   The notice shall advise the affected party of a right to appear before
the Town Council, with or without legal counsel, at a stated time and place,
for the purposes of presenting any evidence, examining any evidence submitted
and examining or cross-examining any person providing the evidence.
(Ord. 94, passed 11-14-1983)
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to § 10.99.
CHAPTER 111:  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
Consumption
   
111.01   Drinking in public places
 
   
111.99   Penalty
CONSUMPTION
§ 111.01  DRINKING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall consume malt beverages or unfortified wine, as defined by
G.S. § 18B-101, on or within the rights-of-way of the public streets,
boulevards, alleys, and sidewalks, or in municipal parks, within the Town of
Kenly.
(Ord. 68, passed 11-8-1982) 
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   Violation of § 111.01 shall be a misdemeanor punishable on conviction by a
fine not exceeding $50 or by imprisonment not exceeding 30 days.
(Ord. 68, passed 11-8-1982)
CHAPTER 112:  PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
112.01   Permit required
   
112.02   Application for permit
   
112.03   Issuance of permit; possession and exhibition
   
112.04   Appeal from refusal to issue permit
   
112.05   Duration and renewal
   
112.06   Transferability
   
112.07   Revocation of permit
   
112.08   Appeal and review
   
112.09   Sales to minors
   
112.10   Itinerant merchants; specific regulations
   
112.11   Exceptions
   
112.12   Enforcement
§ 112.01  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, without first
obtaining a permit as hereinafter provided, to go in or upon or permit its
representatives to go in or upon any private residence or premises in the town
as solicitor, peddler, hawker, not having been requested or invited so to do by
the occupants of the private residence or having secured their permission so to
do for the purpose of soliciting orders for the sale of goods, wares,
periodicals, or merchandise or for the purpose of distributing, disposing of,
peddling, or hawking the same.
(Ord. passed 11-10-2003) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.02  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to engage in the business or
practices referred to in § 112.01 shall file with the Town Manager an
application for a permit to do so.  The application shall be in writing, under
oath, and shall show the applicant's name, age, fingerprints, current address,
and his or her place of residence and nature of employment during the preceding
year, the address and nature of business of his or her employer or principal,
if any, and shall specify in detail the goods, wares, periodicals, or other
merchandise to be offered for sale and shall state whether or not the applicant
has been convicted of any crime involving moral turpitude and if so the nature
of the crime and the place and time of conviction.  The applicant shall also
furnish, at the time of filing his or her application, a photograph made within
1 year of the date of the application.  The applicant shall also give to the
Town Manager at the time of the filing of the application the other information
requested as may be of assistance in passing upon the qualifications of the
applicant.  If the application is filed by an employer, there shall also be
filed a separate application for each solicitor giving the information set
forth above as to the qualifications of the solicitor and the same shall be
signed and sworn to by each solicitor and a separate permit shall be issued for
each applicant.
(Ord. passed 11-10-2003) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.03  ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; POSSESSION AND EXHIBITION.
   If upon investigation reasonable made, the Town Manager ascertains and
determines that the applicant for a permit, as herein required, is a person of
good moral character and proposes to engage in a lawful commercial or
professional enterprise during hours that will not unduly disturb the occupants
of residences, the Town Manager shall issue to him or her a permit to engage in
the business with permit shall contain substantially the information set forth
in his or her application and to which shall be attached the applicant's
photograph and fingerprints.  The permit shall be carried at all times by the
applicant to whom issued when soliciting or canvassing in the town and shall be
exhibited by the applicant whenever requested to do so by any police officer or
any person solicited.  If the Town Manager shall, upon investigation determine
that the applicants not a person of good moral character and that he or she
does not purpose to engage in a lawful commercial or professional enterprises
during hours reasonably convenient for the occupants of residences, he or she
shall refuse to issue the permit.
(Ord. passed 11-10-2003)
§ 112.04  APPEAL FROM REFUSAL TO ISSUE PERMIT.
   Upon the refusal of the Town Manager to grant a permit as hereinbefore
required, the applicant thereafter may appeal to the Town Council, and if the
Town Council shall be satisfied that the applicant and his or her proposed
business and hour of work meet the requirements herein set forth, it shall
direct the Town Manager to issue the permit, otherwise, the same shall be
refused.
(Ord. passed 11-10-2003)
§ 112.05  DURATION AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   The Town Manager shall determine from the application and from the
facts as may be developed from the application and from the facts as may be
developed in connection with the application the period for which the permit
shall be approved and granted, provided, however, that the period shall in no
case exceed 12 calendar months.
   (B)   Upon the expiration of the permit the Town Manager may, upon
application filed in the form of giving the information required in the
original application, renew and extend the permit for additional periods not to
exceed 12 calendar months for any period.
(Ord. passed 11-10-2003)
§ 112.06  TRANSFERABILITY.
   No permit approved and issued as herein provided shall be transferable.
(Ord. passed 11-10-2003)
§ 112.07  REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   If it should thereafter appear that the facts set forth in the applicant's
application are untrue or if the applicant is thereafter convicted of a crime
involving moral turpitude, or if he or she engages in business other than as
set forth in his or her permit or fails to utilize the same in good faith and
for the purpose issued, the permit shall be revoked by the Town Manager and
from the revocation the applicant may, if he or she desires, appeal to the Town
Council.
(Ord. passed 11-10-2003)
§ 112.08  APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   In case any applicant has been denied a license, or if his or her license
has been revoked or suspended, the applicant or licensee as the case may be,
shall within 3 business days have the right to appeal to the Town Council from
the denial, revocation, or suspension.  Notice of appeal shall be filed in
writing with the Town Manager who shall fix the time and place for a hearing,
which shall be held not later than 1 week thereafter.  The Town Manager shall
notify the Mayor and all members of the Town Council of the time and place of
the hearing not less than 24 hours in advance thereof.  A majority of the
Council members shall constitute a quorum to hear the appeal.  The appellant
may appear and be heard in person or by counsel.  If, after hearing, a majority
of the members of the Town Council present at the meeting declare in favor of
the applicant, the license shall be issued or fully reinstated as the case may
be; otherwise the order appealed from shall become final.
(Ord. passed 11-10-2003)
§ 112.09  SALES TO MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or
organization to sell or offer to sell from trucks or other vehicles any article
of food or any other commercial article of whatever description to any children
under the age of 16 years within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   Any violation of the provisions of this section shall be punishable as
a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 11-10-2003) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.10  ITINERANT MERCHANTS; SPECIFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ITINERANT MERCHANT.  An itinerant merchant, peddler by vehicle, or
specialty market operator who transports an inventory of goods to a building,
vacant lot, or other location in a county, city, or town, and who, at that
location, displays the goods for sale and sells the goods at retail or offers
the goods for sale at retail.
   (B)   No itinerant merchant shall conduct business within the town without
first obtaining the appropriate privilege license from the town, which
privilege license shall cost $25 per year.
   (C)   Then an itinerant merchant shall obtain an operation permit which will
allow the obtainee to retail his or her merchandise for a period not to exceed
36 hours within a 72-hour period; the 72 hours to run consecutively and the 72-
hour period to be designated on an operation permit, the 36-hour retail period
can be distributed within the 72 hours as desired by the retailer.
   (D)   At least 20 calendar days must elapse following a designated 72-hour
retailing period before another operation permit can be issued to the same
itinerant merchant and no more than 5 operation permits shall be issued to any
1 person during any fiscal year, a fiscal year defined as running from July 1
through June 30, the period of time for which a given privilege license is
valid.
   (E)   No itinerant merchant shall receive a privilege license and operation
permit without first displaying a state license and notarized, written
permission from the property owner on which the business shall be conducted; in
addition, the property on which business shall be conducted shall be an
appropriately commercially-zoned property operation of the business is
permitted.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or entity to operate a
concession stand or offer for sale any food items from a mobile conveyance
within the corporate boundaries of the town during the annual Hwy. 301 Endless
Yard Sale Event, held annually in June, unless such person, firm or entity be a
charitable, religious, or non-profit organization organized under Section 501
(c)3 of the Internal Revenue Code. This section shall not be construed to
prohibit a restaurant from operating in a permanent building or structure
within the corporate limits of the town.
   (G)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the conduct of
lawful privileges licensed by the town or which may hereafter be licensed by
the town; neither shall it be construed to prohibit those groups or individuals
participating in the annual Hwy. 301 Endless Yard Sale event for the purpose of
offering for sale non-food items.
(Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Am. Ord. 13-03, passed 5-13-2013)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.11  EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the sale or solicitation
of farm or dairy products by the producer or to organizations or
representatives of organizations organized and operated exclusively for
educational, benevolent, religious, fraternal, charitable, or civic purposes
and not operating for profit and where the solicitation or sales are made
without remuneration to the solicitor.
(Ord. passed 11-10-2003)
§ 112.12  ENFORCEMENT.
   Any person, firm, or corporation found to be peddling or soliciting without
a permit shall be charged a fine, payable to the Town of Kenly, of $25, for
each violation.  This chapter is to be enforced by the Kenly Police Department.
(Ord. passed 11-10-2003) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 113:  TAXICABS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Procedures for acquiring a privilege license
   
113.03   Display of privilege license
   
113.04   Operation of taxicab
   
113.05   Proposed rate schedule
§ 113.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT or INTERESTED PARTY.  Any person, partnership, or corporation
which is an applicant for a taxi franchise or who is an employee of an
applicant for a taxi franchise; any person who is a partner in a partnership
which is an applicant for a taxi franchise; and any person, partnership, or
corporation which is an officer, director, or principal stockholder of a
corporation which is an applicant for a taxi franchise.
   PRIVILEGE REGULATING LICENSE.  License provided to the applicant by the Town
of Kenly after the applicant has satisfied all requirements to operate a taxi
franchise.
   TAXICAB.  A vehicle that has been inspected and approved by an authorized
N.C. Inspection Station and inspected and approved by the Town of Kenly Police
Department to operate within the Town of Kenly.
(Ord. 96, passed 5-11-1987)
§ 113.02  PROCEDURES FOR ACQUIRING A PRIVILEGE REGULATING LICENSE.
   (A)   The applicant shall fill out an application for a taxi franchise.  An
application will be considered only if all questions are answered.  The
application shall be acquired from the Town Clerk and brought back to the Town
Clerk when completed.
   (B)   The Town Clerk shall forward the application to the Police Chief upon
receipt of the application by the applicant/interested party.  The Police
Department shall verify all information provided on the application by the
applicant.
   (C)   Upon verification of information, the Police Chief shall establish a
time with the applicant to inspect and approve all proposed vehicles to be used
as taxi cabs.
   (D)   The Police Chief shall check and inspect all safety equipment to
ensure that the safety of the passengers will be provided.  The vehicle(s)
shall also meet all requirements as established by the North Carolina
Department of Transportation - Division of Motor Vehicles.
   (E)   Upon approval of the vehicle(s), the Police Chief shall execute the
application and return it to the Town Clerk.  If the vehicle(s) do not meet
with the approval of the Police Chief, the applicant shall be notified of the
deficiencies.  The applicant shall have the deficiencies corrected and notify
the Police Chief that the deficiencies have been corrected and they shall
establish a time for the re-inspection.
   (F)   The Town Clerk shall have the approved application presented at the
upcoming Town Council meeting for the Town Council approval.
   (G)   Upon approval by the Town Council, the Town Clerk shall issue a
privilege regulating license and notify the applicant of the approval of the
application.
   (H)   The applicant shall pay $15 per year per approved taxicab.
   (I)   The applicant shall renew the privilege regulatory license on an
annual basis in accordance with the town schedule for other privilege license.
(Ord. 96, passed 5-11-1987) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.03  DISPLAY OF PRIVILEGE LICENSE.
   It shall be the responsibility of all applicants to ensure that the license
required by this chapter be prominently displayed within the vehicle visible to
the public.
(Ord. 96, passed 5-11-1987) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.04  OPERATION OF TAXICAB.
   It shall be the responsibility of all applicants to ensure that each driver
follows all local and state regulations while operating the taxicab on public
right-of-way.
(Ord. 96, passed 5-11-1987) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.05  PROPOSED RATE SCHEDULE.
   The proposed rate schedule provided on the application shall be charged to
users of the taxicabs for the duration of that particular license period.
(Ord. 96, passed 5-11-1987)
CHAPTER 114:  CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
114.01   Adoption by reference
§ 114.01  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s cable television provisions are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. passed 8-9-1982)
CHAPTER 115:  LICENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Levied upon certain businesses; transfer; authority of City Council
   
115.03   Engaging in business without license
   
115.04   License year; proration of tax for half-year
   
115.05   Required for every separate business
   
115.06   Required for each place of business
   
115.07   Display
   
115.08   Refund or abatement of tax on discontinuance of business
   
115.09   Schedule of taxes
 
   
115.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to levy privilege license taxes, G.S. § 160A-211.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 115.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT.  The person having the agency for the manufacturer, producer, or
distributor.
   BUSINESS.  Any business, trade, occupation, profession, avocation, or
calling of any kind, subject, by the provisions of this chapter, to a license
tax.
   ENGAGED IN THE BUSINESS.  Engaged in the business as owner or operator.
   FISCAL YEAR.  The period beginning with July 1 and ending with June 30 next
following.
   QUARTER.  Any 3 consecutive months.
(Ord. 12-12, passed 12-10-2012)
§ 115.02  LEVIED UPON CERTAIN BUSINESSES; TRANSFER; AUTHORITY OF CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   In addition to the tax on property, as otherwise provided for, and
under the power and authority conferred in the laws of the state, there shall
be levied and collected annually or more often, where provided for, a privilege
license tax on trades, professions, business operations, exhibitions, circuses,
and all subjects authorized to be licensed, as set out in this chapter.
   (B)   All licenses shall be a personal privilege and shall not be
transferable.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the
Town Council from imposing from time to time, as they may see fit, license
taxes as are not specifically defined in this chapter; from increasing or
decreasing the amount of any special license tax; or from prohibiting or
regulating the business or acts licensed. All licenses are granted subject to
the provisions of existing provisions of this Code and other ordinances of the
town.
(Ord. 12-12, passed 12-10-2012)
§ 115.03  ENGAGING IN BUSINESS WITHOUT LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or his agent or servant to engage in or
carry on a business in the city for which there is required a license, without
first having paid the license tax and obtained the license. For the purposes of
this section, the opening of a place of business or offering to sell, followed
by a single sale or the doing of any act or thing in furtherance of the
business, shall be construed to be engaging in or carrying on the business, and
each day that such person shall engage in or carry on the business, as
aforesaid, shall be construed to be a separate offense.
(Ord. 12-12, passed 12-10-2012)  Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.04  LICENSE YEAR; PRORATION OF TAX FOR HALF-YEAR.
   All taxes provided for and fixed in this chapter shall be for 12 months,
unless otherwise specified, beginning July 1 and ending June 30, provided that
where the license is issued after January 1, the licensee shall be required to
pay one-half of the tax prescribed, except where otherwise specifically
provided for.
(Ord. 12-12, passed 12-10-2012)
§ 115.05  REQUIRED FOR EVERY SEPARATE BUSINESS.
   The payment of any particular tax imposed by this chapter shall not relieve
the person paying the same from the payment of any other tax imposed by this
chapter for any other business he or she may carry on, unless so provided by
the section imposing such tax. It is the intent of this chapter that license
taxes prescribed by various sections or subsections of this chapter applicable
to any business shall be cumulative, except where otherwise specifically
provided.
(Ord. 12-12, passed 12-10-2012)  Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.06  REQUIRED FOR EACH PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   A license issued for the privilege of conducting a business is only
valid for the business conducted at the place and by the licensee named in the
license. Every person doing business in more than 1 factory, mill, warehouse,
store, stall or stand, or other place of business shall secure a separate
license for each such place of business.
   (B)   If the business is moved or if the licensee sells to another, a new
license is necessary, unless a special permit to continue business under the
original license is obtained from the City Council.
(Ord. 12-12, passed 12-10-2012)  Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.07  DISPLAY.
   Every license must be kept prominently displayed at the place of business of
the licensee named in the license, or if the licensee has no fixed place of
business, the licensee must keep the license wherever the business is being
operated and where it can be inspected at any time by the proper municipal
official.
(Ord. 12-12, passed 12-10-2012)  Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.08  REFUND OR ABATEMENT OF TAX ON DISCONTINUANCE OF BUSINESS.
   No license tax shall be abated nor shall any refund of any part thereof be
made in any case wherein the licensee discontinues his or her business before
the end of the period for which the license was issued.
(Ord. 12-12, passed 12-10-2012)
§ 115.09  SCHEDULE OF TAXES.
   The amounts of the license taxes imposed by this chapter shall be as
established from time to time by the Town Council. A schedule of such taxes may
be found on file in the finance office.
(Ord. 12-12, passed 12-10-2012)
§ 115.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   All license taxes imposed by this chapter shall be due and payable no
later than July 1. If any person or business who conducts any business without
first paying the applicable license tax and obtaining a privilege license shall
be assessed an additional tax equal to 10% of the amount prescribed for the
license. Any tax imposed on a new business shall be paid prior to the opening
of the business.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided, any person violating any section of this
chapter shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
subject to punishment in accordance with G.S. § 14-4. Unless otherwise
provided, the maximum fine for a misdemeanor violation is $500.
   (C)   Unless otherwise specified, each day's continuing violation of any
section of this chapter shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 12-12, passed 12-10-2012)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Offenses
   
130.01   Begging; solicitation; pedestrian interference
   
130.02   Curfew for minors
   
130.03   Trespassing on school property prohibited
Weapons; Firearms
   
130.15   Concealed weapons signage
   
130.16   Discharge of firearms within corporate limits prohibited
Loitering
   
130.30   Loitering for the purpose of engaging in drug-related activity
   
130.31   Loitering prohibited; generally
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Drinking in public places, see
§ 111.01
GENERAL OFFENSES
§ 130.01  BEGGING; SOLICITATION; PEDESTRIAN INTERFERENCE.
   (A)   (1)   Begging.  It shall be unlawful for any person to beg upon the
streets or elsewhere in the town without written permission from the Town
Manager of the town and the Police Chief.
      (2)   Soliciting business or employment.
         (a)   Business.  It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit or
attempt to solicit business of any kind on the streets or sidewalks of the
town.
         (b)   Employment; generally.  Loitering for the purpose of seeking
employment or the seeking thereof or the solicitation by any prospective
employer of any person for hire within or upon any of the streets or sidewalks
of the town is declared to be a public nuisance and the practices are
prohibited.
         (c)   Approaching motor vehicles.  No person shall stand, sit, or
loiter in the right-of-way of any streets in the town with the intent to
approach any motor vehicle for the purpose of soliciting employment, business,
or contribution from the driver or occupant of the motor vehicles; provided
that the provisions of this division (A)(2)(c) shall not apply to licensees,
employees, or contractors of the Department of Transportation or town employees
engaged in construction or maintenance or in making traffic or engineering
surveys.
      (3)   Pedestrian interference; definitions.  For the purpose of this
section, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AGGRESSIVELY BEG.  Begging which intimidates another person into
giving money or goods.
         BEG.  To ask for money or goods as a charity, whether by words, bodily
gestures, signs, or other means.
         OBSTRUCT PEDESTRIAN TRAFFIC OR VEHICULAR TRAFFIC.  To walk, stand,
sit, lie, or place an object in a manner as to block passage by another person
or vehicle, or to require another person or a driver of a vehicle to take
evasive action to avoid physical contact.  Acts authorized pursuant to the
town's picketing and parade ordinances and regulations are exempt from the
coverage of this section.
         PUBLIC PLACE.  An area generally visible to public view and includes
alleys, bridges, buildings, driveways, parking lots, parks, plazas, sidewalks,
and streets open to the general public, including those that serve food or
drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and entrances to buildings or
dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
   (B)   Nothing in this section will prohibit nonprofit organizations from
soliciting contributions or selling products for fund raising purposes.
(Ord. 125, passed 8-12-1996) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.02  CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Purpose of curfew.  The purpose of this section shall be to establish
a curfew in the town, regulating the movement of minors, because of the
particular vulnerability of children, their inability to make decisions in an
informed mature manner, and the importance of the parental role in child
rearing.  It shall also promote the health, safety, and welfare of both minors
and adults in the town by creating an environment offering protection and
security for all concerned.
   (B)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FUNCTION.  Any event, including, but not limited to, activities involving
the free exercise of religion, speech, assembly, and activities sponsored by
the town, a church, the Johnston County Public Schools, or other nonprofit or
community organization.
      GUARDIAN.  Any person having legal custody of a minor such as:
         (a)   A natural or adopted parent;
         (b)   A legal guardian;
         (c)   A person who stands in loco parentis; or
         (d)   A person to whom legal custody has been given by the court.
      MINOR.  A person who had not reached his or her sixteenth birthday and is
not married, emancipated, or a member of the armed services of the United
States.
      PUBLIC PLACE.  Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground, or
place to which
the general public has access and a right to resort for business,
entertainment, or other lawful purpose.  A PUBLIC PLACE shall include any
store, shop, restaurant, tavern, café, theater, drugstore, poolroom, or other
place devoted to amusement or entertainment of the general public.
   (C)   Curfew established.  A curfew applicable to minors is established and
shall be enforced as set forth in this section.
   (D)   Time limits.  It is unlawful for any minor to be or remain upon any
public place as defined in this section in the town between 10:30 p.m. and 5:30
a.m.
   (E)   Defenses.
      (1)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (G) that the minor
was:
         (a)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
         (b)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         (c)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         (d)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         (e)   Involved in an emergency;
         (f)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department  about the minor’s presence;
         (g)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
         (h)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
         (i)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
      (2)   Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a police
officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being in the
public place.  The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under
this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, including any
investigation additional to the actions required by this division (E)(2) as a
reasonable person would deem necessary, no defense in division (E)(1) is
present.
   (F)   Responsibility of guardian.  It is unlawful for any guardian to allow
or permit the minor to be in or upon, or remain in or upon a public place
within the town within the curfew hours set, except as otherwise provided.
   (G)   Enforcement.
      (1)   When a minor is found to be in violation of this section, the
officer will complete the applicable Juvenile Custody Report.  After completing
the report, the officer will take the juvenile to the residence of his or her
guardian.  A written warning shall be issued to the guardian of the minor and a
copy of the written warning attached to the Juvenile Custody Report.
         (a)   The written warning shall describe the action of the minor that
constitutes a violation of this section, advise the guardian that if the
guardian allows and permits or has allowed and permitted the minor to commit a
second or subsequent violation of this section that the guardian shall be
subject to criminal prosecution for allowing a violation of this section to
occur.  The written warning shall also advise the guardian that in all cases in
which the minor is under 12 years of age a report will be made to the County
Department of Social Services.
         (b)   A copy of the written warning shall be attached to the Juvenile
Custody Report and turned in with the officer’s daily reports, where it will be
entered into the Police Department Records System.
         (c)   The Police Chief or his or her designee shall review all reports
on a daily basis.  If a Juvenile Custody Report has been filed pertaining to a
violation of this section, the Police Chief or his or her designee will examine
the appropriate records and determine if the violation is a first offense or if
it is a second or subsequent offense.
      (2)   (a)   If upon checking the appropriate records the juvenile is
found to be a first offender, the record will be filed and no further action
will be taken.  If the juvenile is found to have a record of prior violations
of this subchapter, the guardian described in division (G)(1) above shall be
subject to a criminal citation.
         (b)   The reporting officer will be notified and the appropriate
action will be taken.
         (c)   A copy of the action shall be added to the appropriate file
within the Police Department Records System, serving as a part of the case
files for any criminal action.
      (3)   If the juvenile is under 12 years of age, a report will be made and
a copy forwarded to the County Department of Social Services.
   (H)   Aiding and abetting by adult or guardian.  It shall be a violation of
this section for any adult or guardian to allow, permit, encourage, aid, or
abet a minor in the violation, except as otherwise provided.
   (I)   Refusal of guardian to take custody of a minor.  If any guardian
refuses to take custody of his or her minor child found to be in violation of
this section, the officers with physical custody of the minor shall contact the
County Department of Social Services and release the minor to that agency
pending further investigation by the Police Department and the Department of
Social Services.  The guardian will be subject to a criminal citation.
(Ord. 124, passed 6-10-1996) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.03  TRESPASSING ON SCHOOL PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to trespass on school property except at
the times as the premises are open for public gatherings.
(Ord. 6, passed 1-2-1956) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
WEAPONS; FIREARMS
§ 130.15  CONCEALED WEAPONS SIGNAGE.
   (A)   Posting of signs required. The Town Manager is hereby authorized and
instructed to post conspicuous signage at appropriate locations on or within
each park and each building or portion of a building owned, leased as lessee,
operated, occupied, managed, or controlled by the town, as well as the
appurtenant premises to the buildings, indicating that carrying a concealed
handgun is prohibited therein.
   (B)   Location of signs.  Signs on buildings shall be visibly posted on the
exterior of each entrance by which the general public can access the building. 
The Town Manager shall exercise discretion in determining the number and
appropriate location of signs to be placed on or within appurtenant premises
and parks.
   (C)   Effective date.  This section shall be effective on and after 1-1-
1996.
(Ord. passed 12-11-1995)
§ 130.16  DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS WITHIN CORPORATE LIMITS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful, as authorized by G.S. §§ 160A-189 and 160A-190, that
no person or persons shall fire any pistol, rifle, shotgun, BB rifle, or BB
pistol, pellet rifle, or pellet pistol in the corporate limits of the Town of
Kenly.
(Ord. 81, passed 4-1-1985) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
LOITERING
§ 130.30  LOITERING FOR THE PURPOSE OF ENGAGING IN DRUG-RELATED ACTIVITY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC PLACE.  Any area generally accessible to the public for common
usage and access, including any street, sidewalk, bridge, alley or alleyway,
plaza, park, playground, driveway, parking lot or transportation facility, the
doorways and entranceways, stairway, hall, courtyard, passageway, or common
area to any building which fronts on any of those places, or a motor vehicle in
or on any of those places, or any property owned by the Town of Kenly.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person to remain or wander about in a
public place in a manner and under circumstances manifesting the intent to
engage in a violation of any subdivision of the North Carolina Controlled
Substances Act, G.S. Ch. 90, Art. 5.  When done with the intent of violation of
the aforementioned statutes, the circumstances shall include:
      (1)   Repeatedly beckoning to, stopping, or attempting to stop passers-
by, or repeatedly attempting to engage passers-by in conversation;
      (2)   Repeatedly stopping or attempting to stop motor vehicles;
      (3)   Repeatedly interfering with the free passage of other persons;
      (4)   The person behaves in a manner as to raise a reasonable suspicion
that he or she is about to engage in or is engaged in an unlawful drug-related
activity;
      (5)   The person repeatedly passes to or receives from passers by,
whether on foot or in a vehicle or by courier, money or objects;
      (6)   The person takes flight upon the approach or appearance of a law
enforcement officer; or
      (7)   The person is at a location frequented by persons who use, possess,
or sell drugs.
(Ord. 123, passed 8-14-1995) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.31  LOITERING PROHIBITED; GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to habitually loaf or loiter on
the streets of the Town of Kenly or to congregate on the streets or sidewalks
in a way as to obstruct or interfere with the free passage into or out of any
public business or private property.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the police officer observing a violation of
this division (A) first to warn the offender and, upon his or her failure to
heed the warning, to arrest him or her.
(Ord. 38, passed 8-7-1972) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to § 10.99.
   (B)   Pedestrian interference is a misdemeanor which may be punished
according to the North Carolina General Statutes, with a fine not to exceed
$500 and imprisonment not to exceed 30 days.
(Ord. 125, passed 8-12-1996)
   (C)   The punishment for violation of § 130.02 by any guardian of the minor
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor as defined by G.S. § 14-4(a).
(Ord. 124, passed 6-10-1996)
   (D)   Any person violating § 130.03 shall be fined not exceeding $50 or
imprisoned not exceeding 30 days.
(Ord. 6, passed 1-2-1956)
   (E)   Violation of § 130.16 shall constitute a misdemeanor, punishable upon
conviction, by a fine of not more than $50, or imprisonment for not more than
30 days, as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 81, passed 4-1-1985)
   (F)   A violation of § 130.30 by any person is a misdemeanor and shall
subject its offender to a fine of up to $50 and/or imprisonment for up to 30
days.
(Ord. 123, passed 8-14-1995)
   (G)   Violation of § 130.31 shall constitute a misdemeanor and punishable
prescribed in G. S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 38, passed 8-7-1972)
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   HOUSING
      
152.   NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
      
153.   SWIMMING POOLS
      
154.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS
      
155.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
156.   UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE
CHAPTER 150:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General
   
150.001   Building Code adopted by reference
   
150.002   Residential Building Code adopted by reference
   
150.003   Plumbing Code adopted by reference
   
150.004   Electrical Code adopted by reference
   
150.005   Amendments to codes
   
150.006   Compliance required
   
150.007   Unlawful use of buildings or structures
   
150.008   Copies of codes filed with County Inspections Department
   
150.009   Inspections procedures
   
150.010   International Property Maintenance Code adopted by reference
Permits
   
150.020   Permits required; application
   
150.021   Plans and specifications
   
150.022   Issuance; limitations
   
150.023   Fees
   
150.024   Time limitations on validity
   
150.025   Changes in work after issuance
   
150.026   Revocation
GENERAL
§ 150.001  BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina State Building Code, Volume
I, General Construction, as adopted by the North Carolina Building Code
Council, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set forth herein as
the building code of the town to the extent this code is applicable for safe
and stable design, methods of construction, minimum standards, and use of
materials in buildings or structures hereafter erected, enlarged, altered,
repaired, or otherwise constructed or reconstructed.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 150.002  RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Uniform Residential Building
Code, as adopted by the North Carolina Building Inspectors Association, and as
published by the North Carolina Building Code Council is hereby adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein as the residential building code
for one- and two-family residential buildings in the town.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 150.003  PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The most current edition of the North Carolina Plumbing Code (North
Carolina State Building Code, Volume II, Plumbing), as adopted and published by
the North Carolina Building Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference as
fully as though set forth herein as the plumbing code of the town.
   (B)   Whenever the provisions of the North Carolina Plumbing Code and the
provisions of this chapter are in conflict, the more restrictive provisions
shall govern.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 150.004  ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Volume IV of the North Carolina State Building Code, which consists of the
most current edition of the National Electrical Code of the National Fire
Protection Association (NFPA No. 70, ASA Cl-1965), is hereby adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein as a part of the electrical code
of the town. Whenever the provisions of the electrical code and the provisions
of this chapter are in conflict, the more restrictive provisions shall govern.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 150.005  AMENDMENTS TO CODES.
   Amendments to the regulatory codes adopted by reference in this subchapter,
which are from time to time adopted and published by the agencies or
organizations referred to herein, shall be effective in the town at the time
such amendments are filed with the Town Clerk.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 150.006  COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No building or structure shall be constructed, altered, repaired, or
removed, nor shall the equipment of a building, structure, or premises be
constructed, installed, altered, repaired, or removed, except in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   No building or structure shall be altered in any manner that would be
in violation of the provisions of this chapter or of any authorized rule or
approval made and issued thereunder.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the raising or lowering of a
building to meet a change of grade in the street on which it is located,
provided that the building is not otherwise altered.
   (D)   All buildings or structures which are hereafter constructed,
reconstructed, erected, altered, extended, enlarged, repaired, demolished, or
moved shall conform to the requirements, minimum standards, and other
provisions of either the State Building Code, General Construction, Volume I,
or the Uniform Residential Building Code, whichever is applicable, or of both,
if both are applicable.
   (E)   Every building or structure intended for human habitation, occupancy,
or use shall have plumbing, plumbing systems, or plumbing fixtures installed,
constructed, altered, extended, repaired, or reconstructed in accordance with
the minimum standards, requirements, and other provisions of the North Carolina
Plumbing Code (North Carolina State Building Code, Volume II, Plumbing).
   (F)   All electrical wiring, installations, and appurtenances shall be
erected, altered, repaired, used, and maintained in accordance with the minimum
standards, requirements, and other provisions of the North Carolina Electrical
Code (North Carolina State Building Code, Volume IV, Electrical).
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.007  UNLAWFUL USE OF BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain, occupy, or use a building or structure, or
part thereof, that has been erected or altered in violation of the provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.008  COPIES OF CODES FILED WITH COUNTY INSPECTIONS DEPARTMENT.
   An official copy of each regulatory code adopted in this subchapter, and
official copies of all amendments thereto, shall be kept on file in the office
of the appropriate county Inspections Department (Johnston or Wilson). These
copies shall be the official copies of the codes and the amendments.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 150.009  INSPECTIONS PROCEDURES.
   Inspections services shall be provided by the county Inspections Department
(Johnston or Wilson) with appropriate jurisdiction. The Town Council shall
request the Board of County Commissioners of Johnston and Wilson counties to
direct one or more county building inspectors to exercise their powers within
all of the town's jurisdiction, and they shall thereupon be empowered to do so
until the Town Council officially withdraws its request per G.S. § 160A-413.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 150.010  INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The 2018 edition of the International Property Maintenance Code, regulating
and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and
structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities
and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures
are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of
buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and the demolition
of such existing structures in the town; providing for the issuance of permits
and collection of fees therefor is hereby adopted by reference as if laid out
in full herein.
(Ord. 18-10, passed 6-10-2019)
PERMITS
§ 150.020  REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   No person shall commence or proceed with the construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, movement to another site, removal, or
demolition of any building or structure; the installation, extension, or
general repair of any plumbing system; the installation, extension, alteration,
or general repair of any heating or cooling equipment system; or the
installation, extension, alteration, or general repair of any electrical
wiring, devices, appliances, or equipment, without:
      (1)   First securing from the Town of Kenly a zoning permit, if
applicable, then;
      (2)   Second securing from the Inspections Department with jurisdiction
over the site of the work any and all building permits required by the State
Building Code and any other state or local laws applicable to the work.
   (B)   A building permit shall not be issued by the county Inspections
Department without an approved zoning permit from the Town of Kenly being
present at the time of application for a building permit. For any work that
does not require a zoning permit, the town will verify in writing to the county
Inspections Department that a zoning permit is not required.
   (C)   A building permit shall be in writing and shall contain a provision
that the work done shall comply with the State Building Code and all other
applicable state and local laws. No permits shall be issued unless the plans
and specifications are identified by the name and address of the author
thereof, and if the state statutes require the plans for certain types of work
be prepared only by a registered architect or registered engineer, no permit
shall be issued unless the plans and specifications bear the North Carolina
seal of a registered architect or of a registered engineer. When any provision
of the state statutes or of any ordinance requires that work be done by a
licensed specialty contractor of any kind, no permit for the work shall be
issued unless the work is to be performed by such a duly licensed contractor.
No permit issued under G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 9 or 9C shall be required for any
construction, installation, repair, replacement, or alteration costing $5,000
or less in any single-family residence or farm building unless the work
involves: The addition, repair, or replacement of load bearing structures; the
addition (excluding replacement of same size and capacity) or change in the
design of heating, air conditioning, or electrical wiring, devices, appliances,
or equipment; the use of materials not permitted by the North Carolina Uniform
Residential Building Code; or the addition (excluding replacement of like grade
of fire resistance) of roofing. Violation of this section shall constitute a
Class 1 misdemeanor.
   (D)   No building permit shall be issued pursuant to division (C) of this
section for any land-disturbing activity, as defined in G.S. § 113A-52(6), for
any activity covered by G.S. § 113A-57, unless an erosion and sedimentation
control plan has been approved by the Sedimentation Pollution Control
Commission pursuant to G.S. § 113A-54(d)(4) or by a local government pursuant
to G.S. § 113A-54(d)(4) or by a local government pursuant to G.S. § 113A-61 for
the site of the activity or a tract of land including the site of the activity.
   (E)   No building permit shall be issued pursuant to division (C) of this
section for any land- disturbing activity that is subject to, but does not
comply with, the requirements of G.S. § 113A-72.
   (F)  A city may by ordinance provide that a permit may not be issued under
divisions (A) and (B) of this section to a person who owes delinquent property
taxes, determined under G.S. § 105-360, on property owned by the person. The
ordinance may provide that a building permit may be issued to a person
protesting the assessment or collection of property taxes.
(G.S. § 160A-417)
§ 150.021  PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Detailed plans and specifications shall accompany each application for a
permit when the estimated total cost of the building or structure is in excess
of $20,000 and for any other building or structure where plans and
specifications are deemed necessary by the appropriate inspector in order for
him to determine whether the proposed work complies with the appropriate
regulatory codes. Plans shall be drawn to scale with sufficient clarity to
indicate the nature and extent of the work proposed, and the plans and
specifications together shall contain information sufficient to indicate that
the work proposed will conform to the provisions of this chapter and the
appropriate regulatory codes. Where plans and specifications are required, a
copy of the same shall be kept at the work until all authorized operations have
been completed and approved by the appropriate inspector.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.022  ISSUANCE; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Issuance. When proper application for a building permit has been made
and the appropriate inspector is satisfied that the application and the
proposed work comply with the provisions of this chapter and the appropriate
regulatory codes, he shall issue such permit, upon payment of the proper fees.
   (B)   Limitations on issuance.
      (1)   No building permit shall be issued for any building or structure,
the estimated total cost of which is more than $30,000, unless the work is to
be performed by a licensed general contractor.
      (2)   If state law requires that plans for certain types of work be
prepared only by a registered architect or registered engineer, no building
permit shall be issued for any building or structure, unless the plans and
specifications bear the state seal of a registered architect or a registered
engineer.
      (3)   Where any provision of the General Statutes of North Carolina or of
any provision of this code or other ordinance requires that work be done by a
licensed specialty contractor of any kind, no permit for such work shall be
issued, unless it is to be performed by such licensed specialty contractor.
      (4)  Where detailed plans and specifications are required under this
chapter, no building permit shall be issued, unless such plans and
specifications have been provided.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.023  FEES.
   (A)   Zoning permit fees shall be established by the Town Council and
available in the current year Fee Schedule. A copy of the Fee Schedule shall be
maintained in the office of the Town Clerk.
   (B)   Building permit fees shall be as established by the County
Commissioners of the county with appropriate jurisdiction. Schedules of such
fees shall be maintained on file in the offices of the appropriate Inspections
Department.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011) 
§ 150.024  TIME LIMITATIONS ON VALIDITY.
   All permits issued under this chapter shall expire by limitation 6 months
after the date of issuance, if the work authorized by the permit has not been
commenced. If, after commencement, the work is discontinued for a period of 12
months, the permit therefor shall immediately expire. No work authorized by any
permit which has expired shall thereafter be performed, until a new permit
therefor has been secured.
(G.S. § 160A-418)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.025  CHANGES IN WORK AFTER ISSUANCE.
   After a permit has been issued, no changes or deviations from the terms of
the application, plans and specifications, or permit, except where changes or
deviations are clearly permissible under the state building code, shall be
made, until specific written approval of such changes or deviations has been
obtained from the county Inspections Department.
(G.S. § 160A-419)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.026  REVOCATION.
   The appropriate inspector may revoke and require the return of any permit by
notifying the permit holder in writing, stating the reason for such revocation.
Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the approved
application, plans, or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with
requirements of this chapter, any applicable state law and/or any appropriate
regulatory codes; or for false statements or misrepresentations made in
securing such permits. Any permit mistakenly issued in violation of any
applicable state or local law may also be revoked.
(G.S. § 160A-422)
CHAPTER 151:  HOUSING
General Provisions
   
151.001   Findings and purpose
   
151.002   Definitions
   
151.003   Responsibilities of owners and occupants
Minimum Standards for Dwellings and Dwelling Units
   
151.020   Compliance required
   
151.021   Structural conditions
   
151.022   Basic equipment and facilities
   
151.023   Ventilation
   
151.024   Space, use, and location
   
151.025   Safe and sanitary maintenance
   
151.026   Control of insects, rodents, and infestations
Minimum Standards for Rooming Houses
   
151.040   Application of regulations
   
151.041   Water closet, lavatory, and bath facilities
   
151.042   Minimum floor area
   
151.043   Sanitary conditions
Administration and Enforcement
   
151.060   Duties and powers of the Building Inspector
   
151.061   Inspections; rights of entry
   
151.062   Enforcement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
 § 151.001  FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-441, it is hereby found and declared that
there exist in the town dwellings which are unfit for human habitation due to
dilapidation; defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents and other
calamities; lack of ventilation, light, and sanitary facilities; and other
conditions rendering dwellings unsafe or unsanitary, dangerous and detrimental
to the health, safety, and morals, and otherwise inimical to the welfare of the
residents of the town.
   (B)   In order to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the residents
of the town as authorized by G.S. §§ 160A-441 through 160A-450, it is the
purpose of this chapter to establish minimum standards of fitness for the
initial and continued occupancy of all buildings used for human habitation, as
expressly authorized by G.S. § 160A-444.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
 § 151.002  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BASEMENT.  A portion of a dwelling which is located partly underground,
having direct access to light and air from windows located above the level of
the adjoining ground.
      CELLAR. A portion of a dwelling which is located partly or wholly
underground having an inadequate access to light and air from windows located
partly or wholly below the level of the adjoining ground.
      DETERIORATED. A dwelling is unfit for human habitation and can be
repaired, altered, or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this chapter at a cost not in excess of 50% of its value, as
determined by finding of the Inspector.
      DILAPIDATED. A dwelling is unfit for human habitation and cannot be
repaired, altered, or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this chapter except at a cost in excess of 50% of its value, as
determined by finding of the Inspector.
      DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part thereof which is wholly or
partly used or intended to be used for living, sleeping, or habitation by human
occupants, and includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or
usually enjoyed therewith. "Temporary housing", as hereinafter defined, shall
not be regarded as a DWELLING. The term shall include within its meaning the
terms "rooming house" and "rooming unit", as hereinafter defined.
      DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating.
      EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents, or other
pests by removing or making inaccessible materials that may serve as their
food; by poisoning, spraying,
fumigating, or trapping; or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination
methods approved by the Inspector.
      GARBAGE. The organic waste resulting from the handling, preparation,
cooking, and consumption of food.
      HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be
used for living, sleeping, cooking, or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms,
water closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers, or communicating
corridors, closets, and storage spaces.
      INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents, or other pests in such number as to constitute a menace to the health,
safety, or welfare of the occupants or the public.
      INSPECTOR. The county Building Inspector from the county with
jurisdiction (Johnston or Wilson) serving as a representative of the town or
any authorized agent of the INSPECTOR.
      MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than 2 dwelling units.
      OCCUPANT. Any person over 1 year of age, living, sleeping, cooking, or
eating in, or having actual possession of, a dwelling, dwelling unit, or
rooming unit.
      OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care, or control of a building, or
part thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
      OWNER. Any person who alone, jointly, or severally with others:
         (1)   Shall have title to any dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming
unit, with or without accompanying actual possession thereof; or
         (2)   Shall be a mortgagee of record for any dwelling, dwelling unit,
or rooming unit; or
         (3)   Shall have charge, care, or control of any dwelling, dwelling
unit, or rooming unit, as owner or agent of the actual owner, or as executor,
executrix, administrator, administratrix, trustee, or guardian of the estate of
the actual owner. Any such person thus representing the actual owner shall be
bound to comply with the provisions of this chapter, and of rules and
regulations adopted pursuant thereto, to the same extent as if he or she were
the owner.
      PARTY OR PARTIES IN INTEREST. All persons who have interests of record in
a dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming unit and any persons who are in
possession thereof.
      PLUMBING. All of the following supplied facilities and equipment: gas
pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes, mechanical garbage disposal units
(mechanical sink grinders), sewage disposal pipes, water closets, sinks,
installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes
washing machines, catch basins, drains, vents, and any other similar supplied
fixtures, together with all connections to water, sewer, or gas lines.
      PUBLIC AUTHORITY. The town housing authority or officer who is in charge
of the department or branch of the government of the town or of the county or
state relating to health, fire, building regulations, or other activities
concerning dwellings in the town.
      ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing 1 or
more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to 3 or more
persons who are not husband or wife, son or daughter, mother or father, or
brother of the owner or operator.
      ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single, habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
      RUBBISH. Non-organic waste materials. The term shall include paper, rags,
cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard
trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter, glass, and dust.
      SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished, or provided by, or under the control of,
the owner or operator.
      TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer, or other structure used for human
shelter, which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure, or to any utilities system on the same premises
for more than 30 consecutive days.
      UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION. A dwelling which is UNFIT FOR HUMAN
HABITATION is a dwelling in which conditions exist in a dwelling, dwelling
unit, rooming house, or rooming unit which violate or do not comply with one or
more of the minimum standards of fitness or 1 or more of the requirements
established by this chapter.
   (B)   Whenever the words "dwelling", "dwelling unit", "rooming house",
"rooming unit", or "premises" are used in this chapter, they shall be construed
as though they were followed by the words "or any part thereof."
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 151.003  RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Public areas. Every owner of a dwelling containing 2 or more dwelling
units shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary condition
the shared or public areas of the dwelling and premises thereof.
   (B)   Cleanliness. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall keep
in a clean and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling, dwelling unit, and
premises thereof which he or she occupies and controls.
   (C)   Rubbish and garbage. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit
shall dispose of all his rubbish and garbage in a clean and sanitary manner by
placing it in the supplied storage facilities. In all cases, the owner shall be
responsible for the availability of rubbish and garbage storage facilities.
   (D)   Supplied plumbing fixtures. Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall
keep all supplied plumbing fixtures therein in a clean and sanitary condition
and shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable care in the proper use
and operation thereof.
   (E)   Care of facilities, equipment, and structure. No occupant shall
willfully destroy, deface, or impair any of the facilities or equipment, or any
part of the structure of a dwelling or dwelling unit.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Duties of landlords and tenants, see G.S. §§ 42-42 and 42-43
MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR DWELLINGS AND DWELLING UNITS
§ 151.020  COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit used as a human habitation, or held
out for use as a human habitation, shall comply with all of the minimum
standards of fitness for human habitation and all of the requirements of this
subchapter.
   (B)   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant, or let to another for
occupancy or use as a human habitation, any dwelling or dwelling unit which
does not comply with all of the minimum standards of fitness for human
habitation and all of the requirements of this subchapter.
   (C)   A period not to exceed 60 days shall be provided to allow for
necessary repairs.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)  Penalty, see
Ch. 154
§ 151.021  STRUCTURAL CONDITIONS.
   The following shall constitute the minimum standards for structural
condition of dwellings or dwelling units:
   (A)   Walls or partitions or supporting members, sills, joists, rafters, or
other structural members shall not list more than 3 1/2 inches, lean, or
buckle, and shall not be rotted, deteriorated, or damaged, and shall not have
holes or cracks which might admit rodents.
   (B)   Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and strength to
be reasonably safe for the purpose used.
   (C)   Foundations, foundation walls, piers, or other foundation supports
shall not be deteriorated or damaged.
   (D)   Steps, stairs, landings, porches, or other parts or appurtenances
shall be maintained in such condition that they will not fail or collapse. All
porches or landings over 36 inches above ground level shall have handrails.
   (E)   Adequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic shall be
provided (with a minimum of 2 required).
   (F)   Interior walls and ceilings of all rooms, closets, and hallways shall
be finished of suitable materials, which will, by use of reasonable household
methods, promote sanitation and cleanliness, and shall be maintained in such a
manner as to enable the occupants to maintain reasonable privacy between
various spaces.
   (G)   The roofs, flashings, exterior walls, basement walls, floors, and all
doors and windows exposed to the weather shall be constructed and maintained so
as to be weather- and watertight.
   (H)   There shall be no chimneys or parts thereof which are defective,
deteriorated, or in danger of falling, or in such condition or location as to
constitute a fire hazard.
   (I)   There shall be no use of the ground for floors, or wood floors on the
ground.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)  Penalty, see §
154.000
§ 151.022  BASIC EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES.
   The following shall be the minimum standards for basic equipment and
facilities in dwellings and dwelling units:
   (A)   Plumbing system.
      (1)   Each dwelling unit shall be connected to a potable water supply and
to the public sewer or other approved sewage disposal system.
      (2)   Each dwelling unit shall contain not less than a kitchen sink,
lavatory, tub or shower, water closet, and adequate supply of both cold water
and hot water. All water shall be supplied through an approved pipe
distribution system connected to a potable water supply.
      (3)   All plumbing fixtures shall meet the standards of the Town Plumbing
Code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in good working
order.
      (4)   All required plumbing fixtures shall be located within the dwelling
unit and be accessible to the occupants thereof. The water closet and tub or
shower shall be located in a room or rooms affording privacy to the user.
   (B)   Heating system. Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall have facilities
for providing heat in accordance with the following:
      (1)   Central and electric heating systems. Every central or electric
heating system shall be of sufficient capacity to heat all habitable rooms,
bathrooms, and water closet compartments in every dwelling unit to which it is
connected with a minimum temperature of 70°F measured at a point three feet
above the floor during ordinary winter conditions.
      (2)   Other heating facilities. Where a central or electric heating
system is not provided, each dwelling and dwelling unit shall be provided with
sufficient fireplaces, chimneys, flues, gas vents, or other facilities to which
heating appliances may be connected to heat all habitable rooms with a minimum
temperature of 70°F measured 3 feet above the floor during ordinary winter
conditions.
   (C)   Electrical system.
      (1)   All structures are to be supplied with an approved smoke detector,
either electric or battery operated.
      (2)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall be wired for electric lights
and convenience receptacles. Every habitable room shall contain at least 2
floor- or wall-type electric convenience receptacles, connected in such manner
as determined by the State Electrical Code. There shall be installed in every
bathroom, water closet room, laundry room and furnace room at least 1 supplied
ceiling or wall-type electric light fixture. In the event wall or ceiling light
fixtures are not provided in any habitable room, then each such habitable room
shall contain at least 3 floor- or wall-type electric convenience receptacles.
      (3)   Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling shall be
adequately lighted by electric lights at all times when natural daylight is not
sufficient.
      (4)   All fixtures, receptacles, equipment, and wiring shall be
maintained in a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used, and
installed in accordance with the State Electrical Code.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)  Penalty, see
Ch. 154
§ 151.023  VENTILATION.
   The following shall be the minimum standards for ventilation in dwellings
and dwelling units:
   (A)   General. Every habitable room shall have at least 1 window or skylight
facing directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area, measured
between stops, for every habitable room shall be 8% of the floor area of that
room. Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a window or any room
and those light-obstructing structures are located less than 5 feet from the
window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room, such a
window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors and shall not be
included as contributing to the required minimum total window area. Whenever
the only window in a room is a skylight-type window in the top of the room, the
total window area of that skylight shall equal at least 15% of the total floor
area of the room.
   (B)   Habitable rooms. Every habitable room shall have at least 1 window or
skylight which can easily be opened, or such other device as will adequately
ventilate the room. The total openable window area in every habitable room
shall be equal to at least 45% of the minimum window area size or minimum
skylight-type window size as required, or shall have other approved, equivalent
ventilation.
   (C)   Bathroom and water closet rooms. Every bathroom and water closet
compartment shall comply with the light and ventilation requirements for
habitable rooms, except that no window or skylight shall be required in
adequately ventilated bathrooms and water closet rooms equipped with an
approved ventilation system.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)  Penalty, see
Ch. 154
§ 151.024  SPACE, USE, AND LOCATION.
   The following shall be the minimum standards for space, use, and the
location applicable to dwellings and dwelling units:
   (A)   Room sizes. The living room or principal room of every dwelling unit
shall not be less than 150 square feet. The first bedroom shall be 100 square
feet and all other bedrooms shall be not less than 70 square feet. For example,
5 persons would require 525 square feet of space.
   (B)   Ceiling height. At least one-half of the floor area of every habitable
room shall have a ceiling height of not less than 7 feet and 6 inches.
   (C)   Floor area calculation. Floor area shall be calculated on the basis of
habitable room area. However, closet area and wall area within the dwelling
unit may count for not more than 10% of the required habitable floor area. The
floor area of any part of any room where the ceiling height is less than 4 1/
2 feet shall not be considered as part of the floor area for the purpose of
determining maximum permissible occupancy.
   (D)   Cellar. No cellar shall be used for living purposes.
   (E)   Basements. No basement shall be used for living purposes unless:
      (1)   The floor and walls are substantially watertight.
      (2)   The total window area, total openable window area, and ceiling
height are equal to those required for habitable rooms.
      (3)   The required minimum window area of every habitable room is
entirely above the grade adjoining that window area, except where the window or
windows face a stairwell, window well, or accessway.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)  Penalty, see
Ch. 154
§ 151.025  SAFE AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE.
   The following shall be the minimum standards for safe and sanitary
maintenance applicable to dwellings and dwelling units:
   (A)   Exterior foundations, walls, and roofs. Every foundation wall,
exterior wall, and exterior roof shall be substantially weather-tight and
rodent proof; shall be kept in sound condition and good repair; shall be
capable of affording privacy; and shall be safe to use and capable of
supporting the load which normal use would cause to be placed thereon. Every
exterior wall shall be protected with paint or other protective covering to
prevent the entrance or penetration of moisture or the weather.
   (B)   Interior floors, walls, and ceilings. Every floor, interior wall, and
ceiling shall be substantially rodent proof; shall be kept in sound condition
and good repair; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load
which normal use would cause to be placed thereon. All floor underlayment
should be covered with suitable floor covering.
   (C)   Windows and doors. Every window, exterior door, basement, or cellar
door and hatchway shall be substantially weather-tight, watertight and rodent
proof and shall be kept in sound working condition and good repair.
   (D)   Stairs, porches, and appurtenances. Every outside and inside stair,
porch, and any appurtenance thereto shall be safe to use and capable of
supporting the load that normal use would cause to be placed thereon and shall
be kept in sound condition and good repair.
   (E)   Bathroom floors. Every bathroom floor surface and water closet
compartment floor surface shall be constructed and maintained so that it will
be reasonably impervious to water and will permit that floor to be easily kept
in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (F)   Supplied facilities. Every supplied facility, piece of equipment, or
utility which is required under this chapter shall be so constructed or
installed that it will function safely and effectively and shall be maintained
in satisfactory working condition.
   (G)   Drainage. Every yard shall be properly graded in order to obtain
thorough drainage and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water.
   (H)   Noxious weeds. Every yard and all exterior property areas shall be
kept free of species of weeds or plant growth which are noxious or detrimental
to health.
   (I)   Egress. Every dwelling unit shall be provided with adequate means of
egress as required by the State Residential Building Code.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)  Penalty, see
Ch. 154
§ 151.026  CONTROL OF INSECTS, RODENTS, AND INFESTATIONS.
   The following shall be the minimum standards for control of insects,
rodents, and infestations in dwellings and dwelling units:
   (A)   Screens. In every dwelling unit, for protection against mosquitoes,
flies, and other insects, every door opening directly from a dwelling unit to
outdoor space shall be equipped with screens and a self-closing device. Every
window or other device with openings to outdoor space, used or intended to be
used for ventilation, shall likewise be equipped with screens.
   (B)   Rodent control. Every basement or cellar window used or intended to be
used for ventilation, and every other opening to a basement which might provide
an entry for rodents, shall be equipped with screens or such other approved
device as will effectively prevent their entrance.
   (C)   Infestation. Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling
unit shall be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents, or
other pests therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit
in a dwelling containing more than 1 dwelling unit shall be responsible for the
extermination whenever his or her dwelling unit is the only one infested.
Whenever infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling
in a rodent proof or reasonably insect proof condition, extermination shall be
the responsibility of the owner. Whenever infestation exists in 2 or more of
the dwelling units in any dwelling or in the shared or public parts of any
dwelling containing 2 or more dwelling units, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner.
   (D)   Rubbish storage and disposal. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit
shall be responsible for utilizing approved containers and covers for storage
of rubbish as required by this code and other town ordinances, and the owner,
operator, or agent in control of that dwelling or dwelling unit shall be
responsible for the removal of rubbish.
   (E)   Garbage storage and disposal. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit
shall be supplied with an approved garbage disposal facility, which may be an
adequate mechanical garbage disposal unit (mechanical sink grinder) in each
dwelling unit, or an approved outside garbage can as required by this code or
other town ordinances.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)  Penalty, see
Ch. 154
MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR ROOMING HOUSES
§ 151.040  APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   All of the provisions and all of the minimum standards and requirements of
this chapter shall be applicable to rooming houses, and to every person who
operates a rooming house, or who occupies or lets to another for occupancy and
any rooming unit in any rooming house, except as provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 151.041  WATER CLOSET, LAVATORY, AND BATH FACILITIES.
   (A)   At least 1 water closet, lavatory basin, and bathtub or shower,
properly connected to an approved water and sewer system and in good working
condition, shall be supplied for each 4 rooms within a rooming house wherever
these facilities are shared. All such facilities shall be located within the
residence building served, and shall be directly accessible from a common hall
or passageway, and shall be not more than 1 story removed from any of the
persons sharing such facilities. Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower
shall be supplied with hot and cold water at all times. Such required
facilities shall not be located in a cellar.
   (B)   Every water closet, flush urinal, lavatory basin, and bathtub or
shower required by division (A) of this section shall be located within the
rooming house and within a room or rooms which afford privacy, are separate
from the habitable rooms, are accessible from a common hall, and are accessible
without going outside the rooming house or through any other room therein.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)  Penalty, see
Ch. 154
§ 151.042  MINIMUM FLOOR AREA.
   Every room occupied for sleeping purposes by 1 occupant shall contain at
least 70 square feet of floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping
purposes by more than 1 occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor
area for each occupant 12 years of age and over and at least 35 square feet of
floor area for each occupant under 12 years of age.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)  Penalty, see
Ch. 154
§ 151.043  SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   The operator of every rooming house shall be responsible for the sanitary
maintenance of all walls, floors, and ceilings, and for the sanitary
maintenance of every other part of the rooming house. He shall be further
responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire premises where the
entire structure or building within which the rooming house is contained is
leased or occupied by the operator.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)  Penalty, see
Ch. 154
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.060  DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The county Building Inspector and Town Manager are hereby designated as the
public officers to enforce the provisions of this chapter and to exercise the
duties and powers herein prescribed. The Inspector is authorized to exercise
such powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the
purpose and provisions of this chapter. The inspector shall have the following
powers and duties:
   (A)   To investigate the conditions of nonresidential buildings and
structures in the town and to inspect nonresidential buildings and structures
located in the town in order to determine which nonresidential buildings and
structures are not being maintained so that the health and safety of its
occupants or members of the general public are jeopardized and for the purpose
of carrying out the objectives of this chapter with respect to such
nonresidential buildings and structures.
   (B)   To take such action, together with other appropriate departments and
agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect the repair or
demolition of nonresidential buildings and structures which have not been
properly maintained in compliance with minimum standards established by this
chapter.
   (C)   To keep a record of the results of inspections made under this chapter
and an inventory of those nonresidential buildings and structures which have
not been properly maintained in compliance with the minimum standards
established by this chapter.
   (D)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence.
   (E)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations and
inspections provided that such entries shall be made in accordance with law and
in such manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the persons in
possession.
   (F)   To appoint and fix duties of such officers, agents, and employees as
the code enforcement coordinator or officer deems necessary to carry out the
purposes of this chapter.
   (G)   To perform such other duties as may be herein prescribed.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 151.061  INSPECTIONS; RIGHTS OF ENTRY.
   For the purpose of making inspections, the inspector is hereby authorized to
enter, examine, and survey at all reasonable times, nonresidential buildings
and structures. If entry upon the premises for purposes of investigation is
necessary, such entry shall be made pursuant to a duly issued administrative
search warrant in accordance with G.S. § 15-27.2 or with permission of the
owner, the owner's agent, a tenant, or other person legally in possession of
the premises.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 151.062  ENFORCEMENT.
   Violations of this chapter are subject to procedures and penalties in
Chapter 154 for unsafe structures.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
CHAPTER 152:  NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
General Provisions
   
152.001   Title
   
152.002   Purpose
   
152.003   Definitions
   
152.004   Applicability and compliance
Minimum Standards for Nonresidential Buildings and Structures
   
152.020   Maintenance standards for nonresidential buildings and structures
   
152.021   Vacant property in business districts
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.040   Duties and powers of the Building Inspector
   
152.041   Inspections; rights of entry
   
152.042   Enforcement
   
152.043   Limitations on orders and ordinances: historic landmark or historic
district
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the
"Nonresidential Building or Structure Code".
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 152.002  PURPOSE.
   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the town and its
citizens, it is the purpose of this chapter to establish minimum standards of
maintenance, sanitation, and safety relating to nonresidential buildings or
structures, as expressly authorized by G.S. § 160A-439. This chapter provides
for the repair, closing or demolition of nonresidential buildings or structures
as a result of a public necessity caused by conditions that are dangerous to
the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 152.003  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASIC STRUCTURAL ELEMENTS. The parts of a building which provide the
principal strength, stability, integrity, shape and safety of the building,
including, but not limited to plates, studs, joists, rafters, stringers,
stairs, sub-flooring, flooring, sheathing, lathing, roofing, siding, window
frames, door frames, porches, railings, eaves, chimneys, flashing, masonry and
all other essential components.
   BUILDING. Any structure, place, or any other construction built for the
shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind or
any part of such structure, shelter or property.
   INSPECTOR. The Building Inspector of the county having jurisdiction or any
authorized agent of the Inspector.
   NONRESIDENTIAL. Any building or structure or portion of a building or
structure occupied or intended to be occupied, in whole or in part, for a use
other than a dwelling, home, residing place, living space or sleeping space for
1 or more human beings, either permanently or transiently.
   OCCUPANT. Any person who is a tenant or has actual possession of a
nonresidential building or structure or part thereof.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care, or control of a nonresidential
building or structure, or part thereof.
   OWNER. Any person who alone, or jointly, or severally with others:
      (1)   Shall have title in fee simple to any nonresidential building or
structure, with or without accompanying actual possession thereof; or
      (2)   Shall have charge, care or control of any nonresidential building
or structure as owner or agent of the owner, or as executor, executrix,
administrator, administratrix, trustee or guardian of the estate of the owner.
Any such person thus representing the actual owner shall be bound to comply
with the provisions of this chapter and of rules and regulations adopted
pursuant thereto, to the same extent as if he or she were the owner.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations, and corporations who
have interests of record in a nonresidential building or structure and any who
are in possession thereof.
   PREMISES. Any lot or parcel of land inclusive of any building or
improvements located thereon.
   SAFE. A condition which is not likely to do harm to humans or to real or
personal property.
   STRUCTURALLY SOUND. Substantially free from flaw, defect, decay or
deterioration to the extent that the building or structure or structural member
is capable of adequately or safely accomplishing the purpose for which it was
intended or designed.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or placed upon a property which is supported
by the ground or which is supported by any other structure, except a currently
operable licensed vehicle.
   UNSAFE. A condition which is reasonably likely to do harm to humans or to
real or personal property if not corrected or stopped.
   VACANT INDUSTRIAL WAREHOUSE. Any building or structure designed for the
storage of goods or equipment in connection with manufacturing processes, which
has not been used for that purpose for at least 1 year and has not been
converted to another use.
   VACANT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. Any building or structure previously used for
the lawful production or manufacturing of goods, which has not been used for
that purpose for at least 1 year and has not been converted to another use.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 152.004  APPLICABILITY AND COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all nonresidential
buildings or structures which are now in existence or which may be built within
the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   Every nonresidential building or structure and the premises on which
it is situated shall comply with the provisions of this chapter, whether or not
such building or structure shall have been constructed, altered, or repaired
before or after the enactment of this chapter, and irrespective of any permits
or licenses which have been issued for the use or occupancy of the building or
structure or for the installment or repair of equipment or facilities. This
chapter establishes minimum standards for all nonresidential buildings and
structures and does not replace or modify standards otherwise established for
the construction, repair, alteration, or use of the building or structure,
equipment or facilities contained therein.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
§ 152.020  MAINTENANCE STANDARDS FOR NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   All nonresidential buildings and structures shall be free of all conditions
that are dangerous and injurious to the public health, safety and welfare of
occupants or members of the general public. Without limitation of the foregoing
requirement, the existence of any of the following conditions shall be deemed
to be dangerous to the public health, safety and welfare for which a public
necessity exists for the repair, closing, or demolition of such building or
structure and must be corrected in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter:
   (A)   Interior walls, vertical studs, partitions, supporting members, sills,
joists, rafters, or other basic structural members that list, lean, or buckle
to such an extent as to render the building unsafe, that are rotted,
deteriorated or damaged, and that have holes or cracks which might admit
rodents.
   (B)   Exterior walls that are not structurally sound, free from defects and
damages, and capable of bearing imposed loads safely. Where a wall of a
building has become exposed as a result of demolition of adjacent buildings,
such wall must have all doors, windows, vents, or other similar openings closed
with material of the type comprising the wall. The exposed wall shall be
painted, stuccoed, or bricked and sufficiently weatherproofed to prevent
deterioration of the wall.
   (C)   Floors or roofs which have improperly distributed loads, which are
overloaded, or which have insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the
purpose used. Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and
strength to be reasonably safe for the purpose used. Roofs shall be kept
structurally sound and shall be maintained in such a manner so as to prevent
rain or other objects from penetrating into the interior of the building.
   (D)   Such damage by fire, wind, or other causes as to render the building
unsafe.
   (E)   Dilapidation, decay, unsanitary conditions, or disrepair, which is
dangerous to the health and safety of the occupants or members of the general
public.
   (F)   Lack of adequate ventilation, light, heating, or sanitary facilities
to such extent as to endanger the health, safety or general welfare of the
occupants or members of the general public.
   (G)   Buildings and structures including their environs that have
accumulations of garbage, trash, or rubbish, which creates health and
sanitation problems. All garbage and solid waste shall be in approved
containers or stored in a safe and sanitary manner.
   (H)   Buildings and structures that have loose and insufficiently anchored
overhanging objects, which constitute a danger of falling on persons or
property.
   (I)   Buildings and structures including their environs that have
insufficiently protected holes, excavations, breaks, projections, obstructions,
and other such dangerous impediments on and around walks, driveways, parking
lots, alleyways, and other areas which are accessible to and generally used by
persons on or around the premises.
   (J)   Buildings and structures that have cracked or broken glass, loose
shingles, loose wood, crumbling stone or brick, loose or broken plastic, or
other dangerous objects or similar hazardous conditions. Exterior surfaces
shall be maintained in such material or treated in such a manner as to prevent
deterioration and repaired or replaced with like or similar material according
to its original use.
   (K)   Buildings and structures that have objects and elements protruding
from building walls or roofs, which are unsafe or not properly secured or which
can create a hazard such as abandoned electrical boxes and conduits, wires,
sign brackets and other brackets, and similar objects.
   (L)   Chimneys, flues, and vent attachments thereto which are not
structurally sound. Chimneys, flues, gas vents, or other draft-producing
equipment which are in use shall provide sufficient draft to develop the rated
output of the connected equipment, shall be structurally safe, durable, smoke-
tight, and capable of withstanding the action of flue gases.
   (M)   Exterior porches, landings, balconies, stairs, or fire escapes which
are not structurally sound. All exterior porches, landings, balconies, stairs,
and fire escapes shall be provided with banisters or railings properly designed
and maintained to minimize the hazard of falling, and the same shall be kept
sound, in good repair, and free of defects.
   (N)   Cornices which are not structurally sound. Rotten or weakened portions
shall be repaired and/or replaced. All exposed wood shall be treated or
painted.
   (O)   Improperly attached gutters or down-spouts that are located so as to
cause a hazard to pedestrian, vehicular traffic, or adjacent property.
   (P)   Advertising sign structures, attached or freestanding awnings,
marquees and their supporting members, and other similar attachments and
structures that cause a safety hazard to the occupants or members of the
general public.
   (Q)   All exterior surfaces that may cause unsafe conditions due to a lack
of maintenance. Exterior surfaces shall be painted or sealed in order to
protect the underlying surface from deterioration. All exterior surfaces that
have been painted shall be maintained generally free of peeling and flaking.
Where 50% or more of the aggregate of any painted surface shall have peeling or
flaking or previous paint worn away, the entire surface shall be repainted in
order to prevent further deterioration.
   (R)   Windows containing broken or cracked glass that could be in danger of
falling or shattering. All windows must be tight-fitting and have sashes of
proper size and design and free from rotten wood, broken joints, or broken or
loose mullions.
   (S)   All openings originally designed as windows, doors, loading docks, or
other means of egress or ingress which have been temporarily closed by boarding
or other manner in a nonsecure manner so as to allow unauthorized admittance.
If an opening is temporarily closed by boarding to secure the building or
structure, the boarding shall be trim fit, sealed to prevent water intrusion,
and painted or stained to properly conform with the other exterior portions of
the building and the building or structure shall be maintained in a state that
secures the building or structure from any unauthorized admittance from humans,
animals, or birds.
   (T)   Any combination of conditions which in the judgment of the code
enforcement coordinator or officer renders any building or structure dangerous
or injurious to the health, safety, or general welfare of occupants or members
of the general public.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)  Penalty, see
Ch. 154
§ 152.021  VACANT PROPERTY IN BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Findings. The town finds as follows:
      (1)   The business districts are the most publicly visible area in this
community. The condition of these districts have significant economic and
social impact on the community;
      (2)   When the owner of a vacant property in the business districts fails
to actively maintain its condition and appearance, and does not strive to keep
the property occupied with legally permitted uses, the building can become a
major cause of blight to this community. Vacant buildings discourage economic
development and negatively impact appreciation of property values;
      (3)   It is the responsibility of property owners to prevent their
property from becoming a burden to this community and to the public health,
safety, or welfare;
      (4)   One vacant property that is not well maintained and managed can be
the core and cause of spreading blight.
   (B)   Applicability and scope. The requirements of this section shall be
applicable to every property in the business zoning districts in the town, and
to each owner of any property in the business zoning districts that has a
vacant, ground-floor space, as defined by this section.
   (C)   Definitions. As used in this section, the following words and phrases
shall have the meanings indicated unless the context clearly indicates a
different meaning.
      CELLAR. A room typically used for storage and mechanical equipment that
is located in the basement of a building and is not used for commercial or
residential purposes.
      GROUND FLOOR. Any floor of a building with direct access to grade, that
is located less than one story above, or less than one story below grade,
provided that no portion of a floor that constitutes a cellar (as defined in
this section) shall constitute a GROUND FLOOR.
      PROPERTY. Improved real estate, including buildings or structures.
      VACANT. A building or structure space shall be deemed to be VACANT if no
person or persons currently conduct a lawfully licensed use in that space.
   (D)   Vacant property monitoring fee.
      (1)   During each calendar year, the municipality will identify ground-
floor spaces in the business zoning district that are deemed vacant as defined
by this section. Each ground-floor space that is considered vacant and that
does not adhere to the guidelines of this section and all applicable ordinances
shall be charged a vacant monitoring fee (VMF) of $2,500 per calendar year.
      (2)   The vacancy START DATE shall be the date of the mailing of a
written notification by the municipality that the subject property’s ground-
floor space has been identified as vacant. On the 45th day after the start
date, should the ground floor space remain vacant as defined in this section,
the owner of the building in which the vacant space is present shall be
required to pay a vacant property monitoring fee, to be established by
resolution of the municipal government.
      (3)   There shall be no proration of the monitoring fee.
      (4)   The monitoring fee shall not be imposed on vacant properties, as
defined in this section, that are the subject of an active building permit for
repair or rehabilitation, and the owner is progressing diligently to complete
the repair or rehabilitation.
   (E)   Vacant property monitoring fee waiver.
      (1)   The monitoring fee, as required herein, shall be waived in full by
the municipality if, by the 45th day after written notification as described in
division (D) herein, all of the following conditions are present:
         (a)   The street-level exterior building components in which the
ground-floor vacancy is identified are clean (including glass inside and out).
A minimum of 70% window transparency must be maintained;
         (b)   The property is not in violation of any provision of the town’s
property maintenance code (specifically, all applicable International Property
Maintenance Code provisions, or any other municipal ordinance);
         (c)   A professionally produced legal sign is prominently displayed
promoting the vacant space for sale and/or for lease, providing (at least) a
contact phone number for information and showings. The sign must be in
compliance with applicable sign ordinance(s), and at minimum its font size must
be reasonably readable from the adjacent roadway. Handwritten signs are not
permitted relative to this requirement.
      (2)   The monitoring fee waiver may be revoked by the municipality if any
of the conditions required above is not in place continuously until the vacant
condition no longer exists.
(Ord. 19-07, passed 9-9-2019)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.040  DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The county Building Inspector and Town Manager are hereby designated as the
public officers to enforce the provisions of this chapter and to exercise the
duties and powers herein prescribed. The Inspector is authorized to exercise
such powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the
purpose and provisions of this chapter. The inspector shall have the following
powers and duties:
   (A)   To investigate the conditions of nonresidential buildings and
structures in the town and to inspect nonresidential buildings and structures
located in the town in order to determine which nonresidential buildings and
structures are not being maintained so that the health and safety of its
occupants or members of the general public are jeopardized and for the purpose
of carrying out the objectives of this chapter with respect to such
nonresidential buildings and structures.
   (B)   To take such action, together with other appropriate departments and
agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect the repair or
demolition of nonresidential buildings and structures which have not been
properly maintained in compliance with minimum standards established by this
chapter.
   (C)   To keep a record of the results of inspections made under this chapter
and an inventory of those nonresidential buildings and structures which have
not been properly maintained in compliance with the minimum standards
established by this chapter.
   (D)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence.
   (E)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations and
inspections provided that such entries shall be made in accordance with law and
in such manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the persons in
possession.
   (F)   To appoint and fix duties of such officers, agents, and employees as
the code enforcement coordinator or officer deems necessary to carry out the
purposes of this chapter.
   (G)   To perform such other duties as may be herein prescribed.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 152.041  INSPECTIONS; RIGHTS OF ENTRY.
   For the purpose of making inspections, the inspector is hereby authorized to
enter, examine, and survey at all reasonable times, nonresidential buildings
and structures. If entry upon the premises for purposes of investigation is
necessary, such entry shall be made pursuant to a duly issued administrative
search warrant in accordance with G.S. § 15-27.2 or with permission of the
owner, the owner's agent, a tenant, or other person legally in possession of
the premises.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 152.042  ENFORCEMENT.
   Violations of this chapter are subject to procedures and penalties in
Chapter 154 for unsafe structures.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 152.043  LIMITATIONS ON ORDERS AND ORDINANCES: HISTORIC LANDMARK OR HISTORIC
DISTRICT.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, if the nonresidential
building or structure is designated as a local historic landmark, listed in the
National Register of Historic Places, or located in a locally designated
historic district or in a historic district listed in the National Register of
Historic Places and the Town Council determines, after a public hearing, that
the nonresidential building or structure is of individual significance or
contributes to maintaining the character of the district, and the
nonresidential building or structure has not been condemned as unsafe pursuant
to
Chapter 154 may only require that the nonresidential building or structure be
vacated and closed until it is brought into compliance with the minimum
standards established by this chapter.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
CHAPTER 153:  SWIMMING POOLS
Section
   
153.001   Construction standards adopted; inspections
   
153.002   Permit required; application
   
153.003   Permit fees
§ 153.001  CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS ADOPTED; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The current North Carolina State Building Codes standards and permit
fees relating to the construction of swimming pools are hereby adopted. A copy
of these Codes is on file in the office of the county Inspections Department.
   (B)   Inspection of swimming pools, both public and private, will be allowed
during construction as prescribed by the current North Carolina State Building
Codes.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 153.002  PERMITS REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   An approved zoning permit from the Town of Kenly and any applicable,
approved building permit(s) are required from the county having jurisdiction
(Johnston or Wilson) prior to the initiation of construction of any swimming
pool.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 153.003  PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Zoning permit fees shall be established by the Town Council and
available in the current year Fee Schedule. A copy of the Fee Schedule shall be
maintained in the office of the Town Clerk.
   (B)   Building permit fees shall be as established by the County
Commissioners of the county with appropriate jurisdiction. Schedules of such
fees shall be maintained on file in the offices of the appropriate Inspections
Department.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
CHAPTER 154:  UNSAFE BUILDINGS
Section
   
154.001   Purpose
   
154.002   Generally
   
154.003   Definitions
   
154.004   Zoning Enforcement Officer
   
154.005   Standard for enforcement
   
154.006   Inspections
   
154.007   Procedure for enforcement
   
154.008   Filing of notice of lis pendens
   
154.009   Failure to comply with order
   
154.010   Appeals from orders of the Officer; review by Court
   
154.011   Costs of lien on premises; disposition of property
   
154.012   Other remedies
§ 154.001  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The existence of unsafe buildings is dangerous and detrimental to the
health, safety and morals, and otherwise inimical to the welfare of, the
residents of the town.
   (B)   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the town as authorized by G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Pt. 5 (G.S. §§ 160A-426 et
seq.), it is the purpose of this article to establish standards and procedures
by which the town shall declare and correct any unsafe buildings.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 154.002  GENERALLY.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted it by statute, the town shall
declare as unsafe and a public nuisance any building which is found by the town
to be in such a dilapidated or deteriorated state of disrepair or other
substandard condition as to be dangerous to life, health or other property, or
to constitute a fire or safety hazard.
   (B)   Such declaration by the town shall be in writing and shall constitute
an order of condemnation for the purposes of this article.
   (C)   The town shall take appropriate action to correct or remove any
conditions causing a building to be declared unsafe and a public nuisance.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 154.003  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Generally. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
      ABANDONED.  Deserted, or discontinuance of use.
      ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.  Any building used or intended to be used in
conjunction with housing but not used for habitation, whether attached to or
detached from a primary building, including, but not limited to, sheds, storage
buildings, carports and garages, and any attached fence.
      BUILDING.  Any edifice, dwelling, accessory structure, or other structure
or any portion thereof situated on the premises.
      CONDEMNED BUILDING.  Any building determined by the Zoning Enforcement
Officer to be unsafe and dangerous, whereupon notice of condemnation shall be
provided.
      DEMOLISH AND REMOVE.  The demolition and removal of the entire building,
leaving the premises free and clear of any debris, any excavation properly
filled in, and with no holes or pockets which may retain water.
      DETERIORATED. A building which is substandard and can be repaired,
altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards established by
this article at a cost not in excess of 50% of its fair market value, as
determined by finding of the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
      DILAPIDATED.  A building which is substandard and cannot be repaired,
altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards established by
this article except at a cost in excess of 50% of its fair market value, as
determined by finding of the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
      EXTERMINATION.  The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests.
      GARBAGE.  The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
      INFESTATION.  The presence of any insects, rodents or other pests within
or around a building in such number as to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or welfare of the occupants or the public.
      MORTGAGEE.  Any creditor, lender, beneficiary, or mortgage-holder of a
recorded deed of trust encumbering the premises.
      OCCUPANT.  Any person living, sleeping, cooking or eating in, or having
actual possession of a building. An "occupant" may be also be a "tenant".
      OFFICER.  Refers to the Zoning Enforcement Officer and any designated
agent thereof.
      OPERATOR.  Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or
part thereof, in which a building is let.
      OWNER.  Any person who alone, jointly or severally with others shall have
legal title in fee simple to a building (with or without accompanying actual
possession thereof) and any person in charge, care or control of any building,
as owner or agent of the owner, or as executor, executrix, administrator,
administratrix, trustee or guardian of the estate of the owner. Any such person
representing the actual owner shall be bound to comply with the provisions of
this article, and of rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, to the
same extent as if such person were the owner.
      PARTY OR PARTIES IN INTEREST.  All persons who have interest of record in
a building, and any persons who are in possession thereof, including, but not
limited to: owner, occupant, mortgagee, tenant, judgment creditor or lien
holder.
      PREMISES.  A lot, plot or parcel of land, including the buildings
thereon, or any part thereof, except land occupied by streets, alleys or public
thoroughfares.
      PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Any housing authority or any officer who is in charge
of any department or branch of the governments of the town, county, or the
state relating to health, fire or building regulations or other activities
concerning housing in the town.
      RUBBISH. Combustible or noncombustible waste materials, except garbage
and ashes, including, but not limited to, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood,
excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals,
mineral matter, glass or dust.
      SUBSTANDARD.  Any condition existing in a building which causes the
building to be unsafe according to the standards in this article. A substandard
building is by definition one which is unsafe.
      TENANT.  Any lessee who occupies the whole or part of such building or
premises, whether alone or with others. A "tenant" is also considered an
"occupant" under this article.
      UNSAFE.  A building which conditions the Officer finds render the
building dangerous or injurious to the health, safety or morals, and otherwise
inimical to the welfare of, the occupants of the building, the occupants of
neighboring housing, or other residents of the town, including, but not limited
to, defects increasing the hazards of fire, accident, or other calamities; lack
of adequate ventilation, light or sanitary facilities; dilapidation or
disrepair; structural defects; or uncleanliness. An unsafe building is by
definition a public nuisance and unfit for human habitation.
      VACATE AND CLOSE.  Means that any owner, tenant, or occupant must
immediately exit such building, which shall be secured to prevent entry,
including all outer doors firmly locked and basement, cellar and windows barred
or boarded. It also means that such building shall not again be occupied until
all violations are corrected and an inspection is conducted by the Officer to
verify compliance with this article.
   (B)   Words having certain meanings. Whenever the word "unsafe building" is
used herein, it shall be construed as though followed by the words "or any part
thereof."
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 154.004  ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Officer is hereby designated and appointed to enforce the provisions of
this article and to exercise the duties and powers prescribed herein including:
   (A)   Investigate the condition of buildings within the town in order to
determine which buildings are abandoned and in violation of this article;
   (B)   Enter upon premises for the purpose of making inspections;
   (C)   Administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
   (D)   Designate such other officers, agents and employees of the town as the
Officer deems necessary to carry out the provisions of this article;
   (E)   Take such action pursuant to this article as may be necessary to
provide for the repair, closing or demolition of such buildings;
   (F)   Keep an accurate record of the results of inspections, complaints, and
findings made under this article and all enforcement proceedings begun pursuant
to the provisions of this article; and
   (G)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed herein, or assigned to
the Officer by the Town Council.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 154.005  STANDARDS FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Every unsafe residential or nonresidential building within the town
shall be deemed in violation of this article whenever such building constitutes
a hazard to the health, safety or welfare of the town's citizens. Those
conditions which may be found to create such a hazard are:
      (1)   The attraction of insects or rodents;
      (2)   Susceptibility to fires or any other hazardous condition or
circumstance;
      (3)   Dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children;
      (4)   Frequent use by vagrants;
      (5)   Susceptibility to vandalism;
      (6)   Defective construction;
      (7)   Overloaded structural parts; or
      (8)   Dilapidation, deterioration, or decay.
   (B)   In making the preliminary determination of whether or not a building
is unsafe in violation of this article, the Zoning Enforcement Officer may, by
way of illustration and not limitation, consider the presence or absence of the
following conditions:
      (1)   Holes or cracks in the building's floors, walls, ceilings or roof
which might attract or admit rodents and insects, or become breeding places for
rodents and insects.
      (2)   The collection of garbage or rubbish in or near the building which
might attract rodents and insects, or become breeding places for rodents and
insects.
      (3)   Violations of the state building code, the state electrical code,
or the fire codes which constitute a fire hazard in such building.
      (4)   The collection of garbage, rubbish or combustible materials which
constitute a fire hazard in such building.
      (5)   The use of such building or nearby grounds or facilities by
children as a play area.
      (6)   Violations of the state building code which might result in danger
to children using the building or nearby grounds or facilities as a play area.
      (7)   Repeated use of such building by transients and vagrants, in the
absence of sanitary facilities, for living, sleeping, cooking or eating.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 154.006  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Authority to enter. For the purpose of making inspections and
otherwise performing duties under this article, the Officer may authorize the
county's building inspectors to enter, examine and survey at all reasonable
times all buildings for the purpose of performing the duty of safeguarding the
health and safety of the general public.
   (B)   Obtaining a warrant. Whenever an owner, occupant, or agent thereof
shall deny the town building inspector reasonable access to any premises for
purposes of making inspections, the Officer or town building inspector shall
obtain a warrant to inspect as authorized by G.S. § 15-27.2.
   (C)   Emergency cases. In cases where it appears that there is an imminent
danger to life or safety of any person unless an unsafe building is immediately
repaired, vacated, closed or demolished, the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall
order its immediate repair, evacuation, closing or demolition as he or she may
deem necessary, notwithstanding the other provisions of this article. The
Officer may take the temporary measures necessary to safeguard persons from
immediate danger of collapse of such building and is authorized to close
temporarily sidewalks, streets, and other buildings in places adjacent to such
unsafe building and prohibit the same from being used, pending the elimination
of the danger. The cost of emergency measures taken shall become a lien against
the premises upon which the emergency condition existed upon confirmation of
the cost by the Board of Commissioners. The confirmation shall take place only
after 10 days written notice to the owner of the premises where the nuisance
existed. The Board may also notify any other parties of interest of the
emergency condition.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 154.007  PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation. On the Officer's own motion, on request of
any public authority, or upon receipt of a petition signed by any 5 residents
of the town alleging that any building is unsafe, the Officer shall authorize
the town building inspector to undertake a preliminary investigation of the
premises.
   (B)   Notice. If the preliminary investigation discloses a basis for such
charges, the Officer shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner of the
building charged as unsafe a complaint stating the charges and containing a
notice that an administrative hearing will be held before the Officer or the
Officer's designated agent at a place therein fixed, not later than 10 days
after the date of the notice pursuant to division (E). A notice of the pending
proceedings shall also be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises
affected at least 10 days prior to the date of the administrative hearing.
Notice of such administrative hearing shall also be given to at least 1 of the
persons signing a petition relating to such building, if any. The Officer may
also issue such complaint upon any party in interest in the building. The owner
shall have the right to file an answer to the complaint in writing with the
Officer before the time fixed on the complaint or to appear in person and give
testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint for the administrative
hearing. The owner may also give written authorization for any party in
interest in the building to appear on the owner's behalf at the administrative
hearing.
   (C)   Administrative hearing. The purpose of the administrative hearing is
to determine the existence of any of those hazardous conditions listed in §
154.005 surveyed in the Officer's preliminary investigation. Any person
desiring to do so may attend such administrative hearing and give evidence in
the matter being heard. The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or
equity shall not be controlling in administrative hearings before the Officer.
The owner may file with the Officer a written statement agreeing that the
building referred to in the complaint is unsafe, that the same should be
demolished, and agreeing that all costs of demolition shall be a lien in the
nature of a special assessment upon the property on which the building is
located. In such cases, the Officer may proceed with the demolition without
complying with the additional provisions of this section.
   (D)   Issuance of order after hearing. If, after such notice and
administrative hearing, the Officer shall determine that the building under
consideration is unsafe under the terms of this article, the Officer shall
state in writing his findings of fact in support of that determination and
shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an order. If any
party in interest other than the owner took part in the administrative hearing,
the order shall also be served on that person. The town at its discretion may
also serve the order on other parties of interest in the building who did not
take part in the administrative hearing. The order shall require the owner,
within the time specified in the order, but not less than 60 days, to repair,
alter or improve the building in order to render it safe, or to close such
building, or to demolish and remove such building. Any unsafe building ordered
to be closed or to be demolished and removed must immediately be vacated upon
notice of the order. The Officer may require, upon notice of the order, any
unsafe building to be repaired, altered, or improved to be vacated until such
time as the Officer determines the building has been made safe. The Officer
must affix a copy of the order on the unsafe building, and also a notice
stating: "This building is unsafe." For those unsafe buildings which must be or
are required to be vacated, notice shall further state: "This building is
unsafe and unfit for human habitation. Occupation of this building for human
habitation is prohibited and unlawful." It is the owner's responsibility to
insure that the building is immediately vacated of all occupants until such
time as the Officer determines the building has been made safe. In its order
the town may permit a specified party in interest to carry out the order
provided that the specified party in interest demonstrates at the hearing its
proper legal authority to fulfill the order by making the building safe. Such
permission granted by the town to a specified party in interest shall be in
addition to, and not in lieu of, the owner's duty to fully comply with the
order and does not relieve the owner of any legal responsibilities.
   (E)   Methods of service of complaints and orders.
      (1)   Complaints or orders issued by the Officer shall be served upon
persons either personally or by registered or certified mail. When service is
made by registered or certified mail, a copy of the complaint or order may also
be sent by regular mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if the registered
or certified mail is unclaimed or refused so long as the regular mail is not
returned by the post office within 10 days after the mailing.
      (2)   If the identities of any owners or the whereabouts of persons are
unknown and cannot be ascertained by the Officer in the exercise of reasonable
diligence, or, if the owners are known but have refused to accept service by
registered or certified mail, and the Officer makes an affidavit to that
effect, then the serving of the complaint or order upon the owners or other
persons may be made by publication in a newspaper having general circulation in
the town at least once, no later than one week prior to the administrative
hearing. Nothing in the section limits the town, in its discretion, from
providing additional notice by publication in a newspaper having general
circulation in the town to person served personally or by registered or
certified mail.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 154.008  FILING OF NOTICE OF LIS PENDENS.
   Lis pendens (a pending suit), in general terms, is a notice filed on public
records for the purpose of warning all persons that the title to certain
property is in litigation, and they are in danger of being bound by an adverse
judgment. Upon the issuance of a complaint and notice of hearing or order
pursuant thereto, a notice of lis pendens, with a copy of the complaint and
notice of hearing or order attached thereto, may be filed by the Officer in the
Office of the Clerk of Superior Court for the county, as provided in G.S. § 1-
120.2. The Officer shall serve a copy of the notice of lis pendens upon the
owners and parties in interest in the building, including any lienholders and
tenants who may be determined by the exercise of reasonable diligence. The
Officer may have the notice of lis pendens canceled at such time as the Officer
is brought into conformity with this article by sending to the Clerk of
Superior Court a notice asking that the notice of lis pendens be canceled.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 154.009  FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER.
   (A)   Failure to comply. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any building
to fail, neglect, or refuse to repair, alter, or improve the same, or to fail,
neglect or refuse to vacate and close or vacate and demolish and remove the
same, upon order of the Officer duly made and served as herein provided, within
the time specified in such order. Each day that any such failure, neglect, or
refusal to comply with such order continues past the time for compliance
specified therein shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   No occupancy upon order. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any
building, with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to subsection
8-157(d) of this article, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after
the time prescribed in such order for its vacation. Each day that such
occupancy continues after such prescribed time shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense. It shall also be unlawful for any occupancy other than owner
to occupy a building to which an order has been issued pursuant to subsection
8-157(d) of this article. This shall constitute an offense charged against the
occupant, separate and distinct from any offense by the owner. Each day that
such occupancy by a non-owner continues after such prescribed time shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   Civil offense. Unless specifically provided otherwise, violation of
this article shall be a civil offense. If an owner fails to comply with an
order to repair, alter or improve or to vacate and close, or to vacate and
demolish and remove any unsafe building, any one, all, or combination of the
enforcement actions authorized by law may be taken, including those set forth
herein.
      (1)   Civil penalty for owner. If the owner of any unsafe building shall
fail to comply with an order of the Officer to repair, alter, or improve or to
vacate and close or vacate and demolish and remove the same within the time
specified therein, or if any building is occupied in violation of this article
or any valid order or decision of the Officer or Board of Commissioners made
pursuant to this article, the owner shall be subject to a civil penalty of $100
for the first day following the expiration of such order or following a
determination that an unsafe building has been reoccupied in violation of this
section, as the case may be. In each instance, a penalty of $100 per day shall
be imposed for each subsequent day that the order remains unsatisfied or the
unsafe building remains occupied in violation of an order. If an owner fails to
pay the civil penalty within 10 days after being notified of the amount due,
the town may recover the civil penalty together with all costs by filing 1 or
more civil actions in the general court of justice in the nature of a suit to
collect a debt. The Town Attorney is hereby authorized to file suit on behalf
of the town to collect any civil penalties, and the Town Manager is hereby
authorized to verify and sign complaints on behalf of the town in such suits.
      (2)   Civil penalty for non-owner occupant. In addition to the owner's
fines set forth in division (C)(1) above, if a non-owner occupant of any unsafe
building shall fail to comply with an order of the Officer to vacate the
building within the time specified in the order, the occupant shall be subject
to a civil penalty of $100 for the first day following the expiration of such
order or following a determination that an unsafe building has been reoccupied
in violation of this section, as the case may be. In each instance, a penalty
of $100 per day shall be imposed for each subsequent day that the unsafe
building remains occupied in violation of an order. If a non-owner occupant
fails to pay the civil penalty within 10 days after being notified of the
amount due, the town may recover the civil penalty together with all costs by
filing 1 or more civil actions in the general court of justice in the nature of
a suit to collect a debt. The Town Attorney is hereby authorized to file suit
on behalf of the town to collect any civil penalties, and the Town Manager is
hereby authorized to verify and sign complaints on behalf of the town in such
suits.
   (D)   Administrative fee. The property owner may be assessed any costs
incurred in obtaining service including legal publication of notice of
complaint charges, hearing notice and findings of fact and orders related to
the building.
   (E)   Enforcement of order. If the owner of any unsafe building shall fail
to comply with an order of the Officer to repair, alter, or improve or to
vacate and close the same within the time specified therein, or if the owner of
any unsafe building shall fail to comply with an order of the Officer to
demolish and remove the same within the time specified therein, or if any
building is erected, constructed, altered, repaired, converted, maintained, or
used in violation of this article or any valid order or decision of the Officer
or Board of Commissioners made pursuant to this article, and court ordered
relief has not been sought or has not been granted as provided in Section 8-160
of this Article, the Officer may institute any appropriate action or
proceedings to prevent the unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration or use of a building in violation of this article or in any way
inimical to the health and safety of the town’s citizens; to correct or abate
the violation; to prevent the occupancy of the building; or for any other
purpose authorized by G.S. § 160A-432 and other law. Such action shall include
repairing, altering, improving, vacating, closing or demolishing and removing
the building, as required by the order. Before repairing, altering, improving,
vacating, closing or demolishing and removing the building, the Officer must
take the following additional steps.
      (1)   Enforcement action pursuant to ordinance. The Officer must submit
to the Board of Commissioners for adoption a resolution describing the building
and ordering the Officer to proceed to effectuate the purpose of this article
with respect to the particular building which the Officer found to be unsafe.
Such resolution shall be recorded in the office of the register of deeds of the
county, and shall be indexed in the name of the property owner in the grantor
index. The Officer must affix a copy of the resolution on the unsafe building,
and also a notice stating: "This building is unsafe and unfit for human
habitation; the use or occupation of this building for human habitation is
prohibited and unlawful." Notwithstanding any other provision of this article,
in accordance with G.S. § 160A-431, occupation of a building so posted shall
constitute a class 1 misdemeanor. If, after adoption of such resolution, any
occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate the building, the Officer may
file a civil action in the name of the town to remove such occupant without
further notice regardless as to whether the occupant is also the owner of the
building.
      (2)   Additional resolution 1 year later. If the Officer shall have
issued an order ordering a building to be repaired or vacated and closed, and
such building has remained unrepaired or vacated and closed for a period of 1
year, either by action of the owner as provided in subsection (b) above or
following the adoption of a resolution by the Board of Commissioners pursuant
to division (E)(1) above, then, if the Board of Commissioners shall find that
the owner has abandoned the intent and purpose to repair, alter or improve the
building in order to render it safe, and that the continuation of the building
in its vacated and closed status would be inimical to the health, safety,
morals and welfare of the town in that the building would continue to
deteriorate, would create a fire and safety hazard, would be a threat to
children and vagrants, would attract persons intent on criminal activities,
would cause or contribute to blight and the deterioration of property values in
the area, or would render unavailable property and housing which might
otherwise have been made available to ease the persistent shortage of decent
and affordable housing, in such circumstances the Board of Commissioners may,
after the expiration of such 1-year period, enact a resolution and serve such
resolution on the owner requiring the owner to either repair or demolish and
remove the building within 90 days. The town may also serve such resolution on
any parties of interest. Such resolution shall be recorded in the office of the
county register of deeds and shall be indexed in the name of the property owner
in the grantor index. If the owner fails to comply with this resolution within
the time fixed by such resolution, then the Officer shall effectuate the
purpose of the resolution. The cost of such repairs, demolition or removal
shall be a lien on the property pursuant to G.S. § 160A-432(b) and (b1).
   (F)   Other enforcement action. The failure of the owner to comply with an
order issued by the Officer may also be enforced through any equitable or other
remedy deemed appropriate by the town and permitted by law.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 154.010  APPEALS FROM ORDERS OF THE OFFICER; REVIEW BY COURT.
   (A)   Appeals to Board. All appeals which may be taken from decisions or
orders of the Officer pursuant to this article shall be heard and determined by
the Town Council. As the appeals body, the Board shall have the power to fix
the times and places of its meetings, to adopt necessary rules of procedure and
any other rules and regulations which may be necessary for the proper discharge
of its duties. The Board shall keep an accurate journal of all its proceedings.
   (B)   When appeal may be taken. An appeal may be taken by the owner or party
in interest, or by any officer, Town Council, from a final decision or an order
of the Officer. Any appeal shall be taken no later than 10 days from the
rendering of the decision or order by filing with the Officer and with the
Board of Commissioners a written notice of appeal which shall specify with
particularity all of the grounds upon which the appeal is based.
   (C)   Duty of Officer upon the filing of an appeal. Upon the filing of any
notice of appeal, the Officer shall forthwith transmit to the Town Council all
the papers constituting the record upon which the final decision or order
appealed from was made. The Officer shall also report the appeal to the Town
Manager, who shall cause the matter to be placed on the agenda for action by
the Board at its next ensuing regular meeting, and shall notify the owner of
the date the Board will hear the matter.
   (D)   Staying of action. When an appeal is from a decision or order of the
Officer refusing to allow the person aggrieved thereby to do any act, the
Officer's decision or order shall remain in force until modified or reversed.
When an appeal is from a decision or order of the Officer requiring the person
aggrieved to do any act, the appeal shall have the effect of suspending the
requirement until the hearing by the Board, unless the Officer certifies to the
Board, after the notice of appeal is filed with the Officer, that by reason of
the facts stated in the certificate (a copy of which shall be furnished the
appellant), a suspension of the Officer's requirement would cause imminent
peril to life or property. In that case, the requirement shall not be suspended
except for due cause shown upon not less than 1 day's written notice to the
Officer, by the Board of Commissioners, or by a court of record upon petition
made pursuant to G.S. § 160A-434 and this section.
   (E)   Hearing of appeals. The Town Council shall fix a reasonable time for
the hearing of all appeals, and shall reserve the right to continue the hearing
of the appeal from time to time. Any party may appear in person or by
authorized agent or attorney. The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the decision or order appealed from, and may make any
decision and order as in its opinion ought to be made in the matter, and to
that end it shall have all the powers of the Officer. The Board shall have
power also in passing upon appeals, in any case where there are practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the way of carrying out the strict
letter of this article, to adapt the application of this article to the
necessities of the case to the end that the spirit of this article shall be
observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done. A
copy of the Board's decision shall be served on the appellant by the Officer.
   (F)   Petition to superior court.
      (1)   Every decision of the Town Council shall be subject to review by
proceedings in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the date
of service of the decision of the Board, but not otherwise.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the Officer or a
decision rendered by the Town Council may petition the superior court for an
injunction restraining the Officer from carrying out the order or decision and
the court may, upon such petition, issue a temporary injunction restraining the
Officer pending a final disposition of the cause. The petition shall be filed
within 30 days after issuance of the order or rendering of the decision.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 154.011  COSTS OF LIEN ON PREMISES; DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   Lien. The cost of any repairs, alterations, or improvements, or of
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition, caused to be made or done by
the Officer pursuant to this article, shall be a lien against the real property
upon which such cost was incurred. Such lien shall be filed, having priority,
and be collected in the same manner as the lien for special assessments
established by G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 10 (G.S. §§ 160A-216 et seq.), and may also
include the reasonable cost of attorneys' fees for nuisance abatement pursuant
to G.S. § 9-18. Such lien, if against real property located within the town
limits, is also a lien on any other real property of the owner located within
the town limits or within 1 mile thereof except for the owner's primary
residence. This additional lien is junior to all prior liens and shall be
collected as a money judgment.
   (B)   Disposition. If the building is demolished or removed by the Officer,
the Officer shall sell the materials of the building, and any personal
property, fixtures or appurtenances found in or attached to the building, and
shall credit the proceeds of the sale against the cost of the demolition or
removal and any balance remaining shall be deposited in the Superior Court by
the Officer, shall be secured in a manner directed by the court, and shall be
disbursed by the court to the persons found to be entitled thereto by final
order or decree of the court.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 154.012  OTHER REMEDIES.
   Nothing contained herein or in any other part of this article shall be
construed to abrogate or impair the power of the town to define and declare
nuisances and to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise; to
enforce any provision of its charter, or its ordinances or regulations; or to
prevent or punish violations thereof, and the procedure described herein shall
be in addition and supplemental to the powers conferred on the town by any
other law.
(Ord. 11-9, passed 9-12-2011)
CHAPTER 155:  FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
155.01   Statutory authorization
   
155.02   Findings of fact
   
155.03   Statement of purpose
   
155.04   Objectives
   
155.05   Definitions
   
155.06   Applicability
   
155.07   Basis for establishing areas of special flood hazard
   
155.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
155.09   Compliance
   
155.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
155.11   Interpretation
   
155.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
155.25   Designation of Administrator
   
155.26   Floodplain development permit and certification requirements
   
155.27   Duties and responsibilities of Administrator
   
155.28   Corrective procedures
   
155.29   Variance procedures
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
155.40   General standards
   
155.41   Specific standards
   
155.42   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations
and/or floodways
   
155.43   Standards for riverine floodplains with BFE but without established
floodways or non- encroachment areas
   
155.44   Floodways and non-encroachment areas
   
155.45   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (Zone AO)
Legal Status Provisions
   
155.50   Effects on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention ordinance
   
155.51   Effects upon outstanding development permits
 
   
155.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.01  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
    The Legislature of the State of North Carolina has in G.S. Ch. 143, Art.
21, Part 6; Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Parts 3, 5, and 8; and Ch. 160A, Art. 8,
delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt regulations
designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of its
citizenry. Therefore, the Town Council of the town does ordain as follows.
(Ord. passed 9-13-1999; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-2018)
§ 155.02  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood prone areas within the jurisdiction of the town are subject
to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities and by the
occupancy in flood prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other hazards.
(Ord. passed 9-13-1999; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
§ 155.03  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within flood prone areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and all other development that may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. passed 9-13-1999; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
§ 155.04  OBJECTIVES.
    The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life, safety and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e. water and gas
mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets and bridges) that
are located in flood prone areas;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas;
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a Special
Flood Hazard Area;
   (H)   Minimize damage to private and public property and public property due
to flooding;
   (I)   Make flood insurance available to community through the National Flood
Insurance Program; and
   (J)   Maintain the natural and the beneficial functions of floodplains.
(Ord. passed 9-13-1999; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-2018)
§ 155.05  DEFINITIONS.
    Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its’ most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE).  A structure, which is located
on the same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which
is incidental to the use of the  principal structure. Garages, carports and
storage sheds are common urban accessory structures. Pole barns, hay sheds and
the like qualify as accessory structures on farms, and may or may not be
located on the same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING).  An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   ALTERATION OF A WATERCOURSE. A dam, impoundment, channel relocation, change
in channel alignment, channelization, or change in the cross-sectional area of
the channel or the channel capacity, or any other form of modification which
may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or velocity of the
riverine flow of water during conditions of the base flood.
   APPEAL.  A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.  A designated Zone AO on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from 1 to 3
feet. These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does not exist,
where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate and where
velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.  See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASE FLOOD.  The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE).  A determination of the water surface elevations
of the base flood as published in the Flood Insurance Study. When the BFE has
not been provided in a “Special Flood Hazard Area” it may be obtained from
engineering studies available from a federal, state, or other source using FEMA
approved methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the freeboard,
establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   BASEMENT.  Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING.  See STRUCTURE.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY.  A building, portion of a building or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   DEVELOPMENT.  Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY. Any activity defined as development which will
necessitate a floodplain development permit. This includes buildings,
structures, and non-structural items, including (but not limited to) fill,
bulkheads, piers, pools, docks, landings, ramps, and erosion control/
stabilization measures.
   DESIGN FLOOD. See REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION.
   DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM). The digital official map of a
community, issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), on which
both the special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community are delineated.
   DISPOSAL.  As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including ground waters.
   ELEVATED BUILDING.  A non-basement building which has its reference level
raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings or columns.
   ENCROACHMENT.  The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, structures or development into a floodplain, which may impede or
alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING BUILDINGandEXISTING STRUCTURE. Any building and/or structure for
which the start of construction was before October 20, 2000.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the original effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
   FLOOD or FLOODING.  A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAV MAP (FBFM).  An official map of a community,
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which the Special Flood
Hazard Areas and the floodways are delineated. This official map is a
supplement to and shall be used in conjunction with the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM).
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM).  An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the Special
Flood Hazard Areas have been defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE.  The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
2019 S-4
54   Kenly - Land Usage
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM).  An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the Special Flood Hazard
Areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated.
(See also DFIRM)
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS).  An examination, evaluation and determination
of flood hazard areas, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate),
flood insurance risk zones and other flood data in a community issued by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. The Flood Insurance Study report includes
Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) and Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps (FBFMs),
if published.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD PRONE AREA.  Any land area susceptible to being
inundated by water from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.  The individual appointed to administer and
enforce the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.  Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT.  The operation of an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS.  This chapter and other zoning
ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
special purpose ordinances and other applications of police power. This term
describes federal, state or local regulations, in any combination thereof,
which provide standards for preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA.  See FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOOD RESISTANT MATERIAL. A building product (material, component or system)
capable of withstanding direct and prolonged contact (minimum 72 hours) with
floodwaters without sustaining damage that requires more than low-cost cosmetic
repair. Any material that is water-soluble or is not resistant to alkali or
acid in water, including normal adhesives for above-grade use, is not flood-
resistant. Pressure-treated lumber or naturally decay-resistant lumbers are
acceptable flooring materials. Sheet-type flooring coverings that restrict
evaporation from below and materials are impervious, but dimensionally unstable
are not acceptable. Materials that absorb or retain water excessively after
submergence are not flood-resistant. Please refer to Technical Bulletin 2,
Flood Damage-Resistant Materials Requirements, and available from FEMA. Class 4
and 5 materials, referenced therein, are acceptable flood-resistant materials.
   FLOODPROOFING.  Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures, which reduce or eliminate risk of flood
damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation
facilities or structures with their contents.
   FLOODWAY.  The channel of a river or other watercourse, including the area
above a bridge or culvert when applicable, and the adjacent land areas that
must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation more than 1 foot.
   FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT ANALYSIS. An engineering analysis of the impact a
proposed encroachment into a floodway or non-encroachment area is expected to
have on the floodway boundaries, base flood elevations, and floodway surcharge
elevations. The evaluation shall be prepared by a qualified North Carolina
licensed engineer using standard engineering methods and models.
   FLOOD ZONE.  A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or
Flood Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   FREEBOARD.  The height added to the Base Flood Elevation (BFE) to account
for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater
than the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions,
such as wave action, blockage of bridge openings, and the hydrological effect
of urbanization of the watershed. The freeboard plus the Base Flood Elevation
establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY.  A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, limited to a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY.  A facility for the collection,
storage, processing, treatment, recycling, recovery or disposal of hazardous
waste as defined in G.S. Ch. 130A, Art. 9.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG).  The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.  Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks in
communities with a Certified Local Government (CLG) Program; or
      (4)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a Certified Local Government
(CLG) Program.
      (5)   Certified Local Government (CLG) Programs are approved by the U.S.
Department of the Interior in cooperation with the North Carolina Department of
Cultural Resources through the State Historic Preservation Officer as having
met the requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 as
amended in 1980.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official determination issued by FEMA that
amends or revises an effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or Flood Insurance
Study. Letters of Map Change include:
      (1)   Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA). An official amendment, by letter,
to an effective National Flood Insurance Program map. A LOMA is based on
technical data showing that a property had been inadvertently mapped as being
in the floodplain but is on natural high ground above the base flood elevation.
A LOMA amends the current effective Flood Insurance Rate Map and establishes
that a specific property, portion of a property, or structure is not located in
a special flood hazard area.
      (2)   Letter of Map Revision (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that may show changes to the flood zones, flood elevations, special flood
hazard area boundaries and floodway delineations, and other planimetric
features.
      (3)   Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F). A determination that
a structure or parcel of land has been elevated by fill above the base flood
elevation, and is, therefore, no longer located within the special flood hazard
area. In order to qualify for this determination, the fill must have been
permitted and placed in accordance with the community’s floodplain management
regulations.
      (4)   Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR). A formal review and
comment as to whether a project or other project complies with the minimum NFIP
requirements for such projects with respect to delineation of special flood
hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or
Flood Insurance Study; upon submission and approval of certified as-built
documentation, a Letter of Map Revision may be issued by FEMA to revise the
effect FIRM.
   LIGHT DUTY TRUCK. Any motor vehicle rated at 8,500 pounds gross vehicular
weight rating or less which has a vehicular curb weight of 6,000 pounds or less
and which has a basic vehicle frontal area of 45 square feet or less as defined
in 40 CFR 86.082-2 and is:
      (1)   Designed primarily for purposes of transportation of property or is
a derivation of such a vehicle;
      (2)   Designed primarily for transportation of persons and has a capacity
of more than 12 persons; or
      (3)   Available with special features enabling off-street or off-highway
operation and use.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG).  The lowest elevation of the ground, sidewalk
or patio slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after
completion of the building.
   LOWEST FLOOR.  The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s lowest floor, provided that such
an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure, transportable in 1 or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into 2 or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE.  The building value, excluding the land value and that of any
accessory structures or other improvements on the lot, established by
independent certified appraisal, replacement cost depreciated by age of
building and quality of construction (Actual Cash Value) or adjusted tax
assessed values.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION.  Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of September 13, 1999, the initial floodplain
managment regulations and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR DEVELOPMENT.  Any legally existing building or
development which fails to comply with the current provisions of this chapter.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA  (NEA).  The channel of a river or other watercourse,
including the area above a bridge or culvert when applicable, and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than 1 foot as
designated in the Flood Insurance Study report.
   POST-FIRM.  Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred on or after October 20, 2000, the effective date of the
initial Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
   PRE-FIRM.  Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred before October 20,2000,  the effective date of the
initial Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND.  Means that at least 51% of the actual cash value
of the structure is above ground.
   PUBLIC SAFETY and/or NUISANCE.  Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, any considerable number of
persons, unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner
of any navigable lake, river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLERV.  A vehicle, which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck;
      (4)   Not designed for use as a permanent primary dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use;
      (5)   Is fully licensed and ready for highway use.
      Note: For the purpose of this chapter, tiny homes/houses and park models
that do not meet the items above are not considered recreational vehicles and
should meet the standards of and be permitted as residential structures.
   REFERENCE LEVEL.  The portion of a structure or other development that must
be compared to the regulatory flood protection elevation to determine
regulatory compliance. For structures within Special Flood Hazard Areas
designated AE, A, A99 or AO. The REFERENCE LEVEL is the top of the lowest floor
or bottom of lowest attendant utility including ductwork, whichever is lower.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The base flood elevation plus the
freeboard. In special flood hazard areas, where the base flood elevations
(BFEs) have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus 2 feet
freeboard. In the special flood hazard areas where no BFE has been established,
this elevation shall be at least 2 feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION.  To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community Floodplain Management Regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the
ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   REPETITIVE LOSS.  Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on 2
separate occasions during any 10-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   RIVERINE.  Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SALVAGE YARD.  Any non-residential property used for the storage, collection
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including, but not limited to,
vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY.  Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35).
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE.  Defined as in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36), any place
at which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill, or
any other method.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).  The land in the floodplain subject to a
1% or greater chance of being flooded in any given year as determined in §
155.07.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.  Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or other improvement
was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure (including a manufactured
home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings, installation of
piles, construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or
the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction
does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor
does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it
include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the
erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE.  A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home or a gas or
liquid storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.  Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during
any 1 year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT. SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means flood-related damage sustained by a
structure on 2 separate occasions during a 10-year period for which the cost of
repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds
25% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.  Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any 1 year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the market
value of the structure before the start of construction of the improvement.
This term includes structures which have incurred substantial damage,
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   TECHNICAL BULLETIN and TECHNICAL FACT SHEET. A FEMA publication that
provides guidance concerning the building performance standards of the NFIP,
which are contained in Title 44 of the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations at
Section 60.3. The bulletins and fact sheets are intended for use primarily by
state and local officials for interpreting and enforcing NFIP regulations and
by members of the development community, such as design professionals and
builders. New bulletins do not create regulations; rather they provide specific
guidance for complying with the minimum requirements of the existing NFIP
regulations. It should be noted that technical bulletins and technical fact
sheets provide guidance on the minimum requirements of the NFIP regulations.
State or community requirements that exceed those of the NFIP take precedence.
Design professionals should contact the community officials to determine
whether more restrictive state or local regulations apply to the building or
site in question. All applicable standards of the state or local building code
must also be met for any building in a flood hazard area.
   TEMPERATURE CONTROLLED. Means having the temperature regulated by a heading
and/or [space reserved].
   VARIANCE.  A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION.  The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in §§ 155.25 through 155.29 and §§ 155.40
through 155.45 is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE.  A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE).  The height, in relation to NAVD 1988, of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or
riverine areas.
(Ord. passed 9-13-1999; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-2018)
§ 155.06  APPLICABILITY.
    This chapter shall apply to all Special Flood Hazard Areas within the
jurisdiction, including Extra-Territorial Jurisdictions (ETJ) of the town.
(Ord. passed 9-13-1999; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-2018)
§ 155.07  BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
The Special Flood Hazard Areas are those identified under the Cooperating
Technical State (CTS) agreement between the State of North Carolina and FEMA
Flood Insurance Study (FIS) dated June 20, 2018 for Johnston County and
associated DFIRM panels, including any digital data developed as part of the
Flood Insurance Study, which are adopted by reference and declared a part of
this chapter. Future revisions to the FIS and DFIRM panels that do not change
flood hazard data with the jurisdiction authority of the town are also adopted
by reference and declared a part of this chapter.Subsequent Letters of Map
Amendment (LOMRs) and/or Physical Map Revision (PMR), shall be adopted within 3
months.
   (A)   The Special Flood Hazard Areas also include those defined through
standard engineering analysis for private developments or by governmental
agencies, but which have not yet been incorporated in the FIRM. This includes,
but is not limited to:
      (1)   Detailed flood data generated as a requirement of §
155.27(K) and (L).
(Ord. passed 9-13-1999; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-2018)
§ 155.08  ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A Floodplain Development Permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within Special Flood Hazard Areas as determined in §
155.07.
(Ord. passed 9-13-1999; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2005)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.09  COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. passed 9-13-1999; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2005)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.10  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 9-13-1999; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
§ 155.11  INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. passed 9-13-1999; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
§ 155.12  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be
increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land
outside the Special Flood Hazard Areas or uses permitted within such areas will
be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability
on the part of the town or by any officer or employee thereof for any flood
damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. passed 9-13-1999; Am. Ord. passed, 11-14-2005)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 155.25  DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
    The Town Manager, or his or her designee, hereinafter referred to as the
“Floodplain Administrator,” is hereby appointed to administer and implement the
provisions of this chapter. In instances where the Floodplain Administrator
receives assistance from others to complete tasks to administer and implement
this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator shall be responsible for the
coordination and town’s overall compliance with the National Flood Insurance
Program and the provisions of the chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-13-1999; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-2018)
§ 155.26  FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION, PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application requirements.  Application for a Floodplain Development
Permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within Special Flood Hazard Areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a Floodplain
Development Permit:
      (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities and
other development;
         (b)   The boundary of the Special Flood Hazard Area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
155.07, or a statement that the entire lot is within the Special Flood Hazard
Area;
         (c)   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
155.07;
         (d)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in §
155.07;
         (e)   The Base Flood Elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in §§
155.07,
155.27(K) and (L) and
155.42;
         (f)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
         (g)   The certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor
or professional engineer.
      (2)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a
Special Flood Hazard Area including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 of the proposed reference
level (including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 to any non-residential
structure in Zone AE, A, AH, A99 or AO will be floodproofed; and
         (c)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 which any proposed utility
systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
      (3)   If floodproofing, a Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-34)
along with supporting data, an operational plan, and inspection and maintenance
plan, that includes, but is not limited to, installation, exercise and
maintenance of  flood proofing measures.
      (4)   A Foundation Plan drawn to scale which shall include details of the
proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are met.
These details include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns, posts, piers, piles and shear walls); and
         (b)   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with §
155.41(D), when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AO,AH, 
AE and A99.
      (5)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor;
      (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (7)   Certification of all other local, state and federal permits
required prior to Floodplain Development Permit issuance have been received;
      (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure §
155.41(F) and (G) are met; and
      (9)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
   (B)   Permit requirements.  The Floodplain Development Permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      (1)   A complete description of the development to be permitted under the
Floodplain Development Permit (e.g., house, garage, pool, septic bulkhead,
cabana, pier, bridge, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or
drilling operations, or storage of equipment or materials, etc.);
      (2)   The Special Flood Hazard Area determination for the proposed
development per available data specified in §
155.07;
      (3)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities;
      (4)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities;
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines;
      (6)   A statement that no fill material shall encroach into the floodway
or non-encroachment area of any watercourse, as applicable unless the
requirements of §
155.44;
      (7)   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AO, AE, AH or A99;
      (8)   Limitations of below BFE enclosures (if applicable) (i.e., paring,
building access and limited storage); and
      (9)   All materials below BFE/RFPE must be flood resistant materials.
   (C)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Elevation certificates:
         (a)   An Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-33) is required prior
to the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit
holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the
elevation of the reference level, in relation to NAVD 1988. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the
beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a Floodplain Development
Permit.
         (b)   An Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-33) is required after
the reference level is established. Within 7 calendar days of establishment of
the reference level elevation, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of the
reference level, in relation to NAVD 1988. Any work done within the 7 day
calendar period and prior to submission of the certification shall be at the
permit holder’s risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate
data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to further work being permitted to proceed.
Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required corrections
shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
         (c)   A Final Construction Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form 86-0-033)
is required after construction is completed and prior to Certificate of
Compliance/Occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of final as-built
construction of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy. The finished construction elevation
certificate certifier shall provide at least 2 photographs showing the front
and rear of the building taken within 90 days from the date of the
certification. The photographs must be taken with the views confirming the
building description and diagram number provided in division (a). To the extent
possible, these photographs should show the entire building including
foundation. If the building has split-level or multi-level areas, provide at
least 2 additional photographs showing side views of the building. In addition,
when applicable, provide a photograph of the foundation showing a
representative example of the flood openings or vents. All photographs must be
in color and measure not less than 3' x 3'. Digital photographs are acceptable.
      (2)   Flood Proofing Certificate.
         (a)   If non-residential floodproofing is used to meet the regulatory
flood protection elevation requirements, a Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA Form
086-0-34), with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and
maintenance plan is required prior to the actual start of any new construction.
It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain
Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design elevation of the
reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to NAVD 1988.
Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The
Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the operation plan,
and inspection and maintenance plan submitted. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to permit approval and the
beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit. Failure to construct in accordance with the certified design shall be
cause to withhold the issuance of a Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy.
         (b)   A final finished construction (as built) floodproofing
certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-34), with supporting data, an operational plan,
and an inspection and maintenance plan are required prior to the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy. It shall be the duty of the permit holder
to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed
design elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in
relation to NAVD 1988. Floodproofing certificate shall be prepared by or under
the direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by
the same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate date, the
operation plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected
by such review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to certificate of
occupancy/compliance. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make
required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development permit.
Failure to construct in accordance with the certified design shall be cause to
deny a certificate of occupancy/compliance.
      (3)   If a manufactured home is placed within Zone A, AO, AE or A99 and
the elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches in height above grade, an
engineered foundation certification is required per § 155.41(C).
      (4)   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a description of
the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; a professional engineer’s
certified report on the effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying
capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties located both upstream
and downstream; and a map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior
to issuance of a Floodplain Development Permit.
      (5)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located
within Zone A, AO, AE, AH or A99, are exempt from the elevation/floodproofing
certification requirements specified in divisions (C)(1) and (2) above:
         (a)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
155.41(F)(1);
         (b)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
155.41(G); and
         (c)   Accessory structures less than 150 square feet meeting
requirements of §
155.41(H).
   (D)   Determinations for existing buildings and structures. For applications
for building permits to improve buildings and structures, including
alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy,
additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements, repairs of
substantial damage, and other improvement of/or work on such buildings and
structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with the Johnston
County Building Official shall:
      (1)   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work; in the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
      (2)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the improvement, the
cost to repair a damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined
costs of improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the
building or structure;
      (3)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
      (4)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work constitutes
substantial damage and that compliance with the flood resistant construction
requirements of the NC Building Code and this chapter is required.
(Ord. passed 9-13-1999; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-2018)
§ 155.27  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
   (A)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within Special Flood Hazard Areas to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
   (B)    Review all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to
assure that all necessary local, state and federal permits have been received,
including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of
1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334 have been met;
   (C)   Advise permittee that additional federal or state permits (wetlands,
endangered species, erosion and sedimentation control, riparian buffers, mining
and the like) may be required, and require that copies of such permits be
provided and maintained on file with the Floodplain Development Permit;
   (D)   Notify adjacent communities and the North Carolina Department of Crime
Control and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator
for the National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation
of a watercourse and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA);
   (E)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
   (F)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas unless
the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
155.43  and §
155.44 are met;
   (G)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) of the reference
level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
155.26(C);
   (H)   Obtain the actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) to which the
new or substantially improved structures and all utilities have been
floodproofed, in accordance with §
155.26(C);
   (I)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) of all public
utilities in accordance with §
155.26(C);
   (J)   When floodproofing is utilized for a structure, obtain certifications
from a registered professional engineer or architect in accordance with §§
155.26(C) and
155.41(B);
   (K)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the Special Flood Hazard Areas (for example, where there appears to be a
conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions), make the
necessary interpretation. The person contesting the location of the boundary
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as
provided in this section;
   (L)   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with §
155.07, obtain, review and reasonably utilize any Base Flood Elevation (BFE)
data, along with floodway data or non-encroachment area data available from a
federal, state or other source, including data developed pursuant to §
155.42(B)(2), in order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (M)   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway nor
non-encroachment area data has been provided in accordance with §
155.07, obtain, review and reasonably utilize any floodway data or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state or other source to
administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (N)   When the exact location of boundaries of the Special Flood Hazard
Areas conflict with the current, natural topography information at the site,
the property owner may apply and be approved for a Letter of Map Amendment
(LOMA) by FEMA. Maintain a copy of the Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) issued by
FEMA in the Floodplain Development Permit file;
   (O)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this chapter and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Action of 1974,
as amended and G.S. Chapter 132;
   (P)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to
a Floodplain Development Permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall
make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the
work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and the
terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has
a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (Q)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing the work. The stop-work order shall state the specific work to
be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage and the conditions under
which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a
misdemeanor;
   (R)   Revoke Floodplain Development Permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the Floodplain Development
Permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply
with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any Floodplain Development
Permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked;
   (S)   Make periodic inspections throughout all special flood hazard areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (T)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
155.28;
   (U)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to,
historical and effective FIS Report, FIRM and/or other official flood maps/
studies adopted under §
155.07, including any revisions thereto including Letters of Map Change, issued
by state and/or FEMA. Notify state and FEMA of mapping needs;
   (V)   Review, provide input, and make recommendations on variance requests;
   (W)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including Letters of
Map Revision based on Fill (LOMR-Fs) and Letters of Map Revision (LOMRs); and
   (X)   When the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade of a structure or
the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a special flood hazard area is above
the BFE, advise the property owner of the option to apply for a Letter of Map
Amendment (LOMA) from FEMA. Maintain a copy of the LOMA issued by FEMA in the
floodplain development permit file.
(Ord. passed 9-13-1999; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-2018)
§ 155.28  CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected.  When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law pertaining to
his or her property.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action.  If the owner
of a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner’s last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      (1)   That the building or property is in violation of the Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinance;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at a
designated place and time, not later than 10 days after the date of the notice,
at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by counsel
and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   Following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue an
order to alter, vacate or demolish the building; or to remove fill as appears
appropriate.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action.  If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of the Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance, he or she shall issue an order in writing to the owner, requiring
the owner to remedy the violation within a specified time period, not less than
60 days, nor more than 180 days. Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that
there is imminent danger to life or other property, he or she may order that
corrective action be taken in such lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal.  Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the Clerk within 10 days
following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order
of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body shall
hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm, or
revoke the order.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order.  If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, he or she shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. §
143-215.58 and shall be punished at the discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 9-13-1999; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-2018)
Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.29  VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment as established by the town, hereinafter
referred to as the “Appeal Board,” shall hear and decide requests for variances
from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal
such decision to the Court, as provided in G.S. Ch. 7A.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      (2)    Functionally dependant facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
155.05 provided provisions of §
155.29(G), (H)(2) and (3) have been satisfied, and such facilities are
protected by methods that minimize flood damage during the base flood and
create no additional threats to public safety; and
      (3)   Any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements
stated in this section.
   (D)   In passing upon variances, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under §
155.05 as a functionally dependant facility, where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (G)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or non-
encroachment area if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
   (H)   Conditions for variances:
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state or local laws, regulations or
ordinances;
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
non- encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge;
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval;
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief;
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (6)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the Base Flood Elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and a written statement that
the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk
resulting from the reduced reference level elevation. Such notification shall
be maintained with a record of all variance actions.
      (7)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and the State of North Carolina upon request.
   (I)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards and chemical storage
facilities that are in Special Flood Hazard Areas if all of the following
conditions are met.
      (1)   The use serves a critical need in the community.
      (2)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the Special Flood
Hazard Area.
      (3)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to
at least the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (4)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and local
laws.
      (5)   The town has notified the Secretary of the North Carolina
Department of Crime Control and Public Safety of its intention to grant a
variance at least 30 calendar days prior to granting the variance.
(Ord. passed 9-13-1999; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-2018)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 155.40  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all Special Flood Hazard Areas the following provisions are required:
   (A)    All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement
of the structure;
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements below the regulatory
flood protection elevation shall be constructed with materials and utility
equipment resistant to flood damage in accordance with FEMA Technical Bulletin
2, Flood Damage - Resistant Materials;
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages;
   (D)   All new electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding. These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment,
water softener units, bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter
panels/boxes, utility/cable boxes, appliances (washers, dryers, refrigerators,
freezers and the like), hot water heaters and electric outlets/switches:
      (1)   Replacements part of a substantial improvement, electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment, and other service
equipment shall also meet the above provisions; and
      (2)   Replacements that are for maintenance and not part of a substantial
improvement, may be installed at the original location provided the addition
and/or improvements comply with the standards for new construction consistent
with the code and requirements for the original structure;
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters;
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
   (H)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-encroachment
area or stream setback, provided that the bulk of the building or structure
below the regulatory flood protection elevation in the floodway, non-
encroachment area or stream setback is not increased and provided that such
repair, reconstruction or replacement meets all of the other requirements of
this chapter;
   (I)   New solid waste disposal facilities, hazardous waste management
facilities, salvage yards and chemical storage facilities shall not be
permitted in Special Flood Hazard Areas, except by variance as specified in §
155.29(I). A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a Special Flood Hazard Area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the regulatory
flood protection elevation and certified according to §
155.26(C);
   (J)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage;
   (K)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage;
   (L)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards;
   (M)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including Section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334;
   (N)   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard area,
the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements; and
   (O)   When a structure is in multiple flood hazard areas or in a flood
hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for the
more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and highest BFE shall apply.
(Ord. passed 9-13-1999; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-2018)
Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.41  SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
    In all Special Flood Hazard Areas where Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in §§
155.07 or
155.27(K) and (L), the following provisions, in addition to §
155.40, are required.
   (A)   Residential construction.  New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
155.05.
   (B)   Non-residential construction.  New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other non-residential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
155.05. Structures located in A, AH, AO, AE and A99 Zones may be floodproofed
to the regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation provided that
all areas of the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities below the required flood protection elevation are water-tight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effect of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or
architect shall certify that the standards of this section are satisfied. Such
certification shall be provided to the official as set forth in §
155.26(C) along with the operational and maintenance plans.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   New or replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that the
reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory flood
protection elevation, as defined in §
155.05.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement either
in accordance with the most current State of North Carolina Regulations for
Manufactured adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to G.S. § 143-
143.15 or a certified engineered foundation system. Additionally, when the
elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36 inches or less above
the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by reinforced piers or
engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is above 36 inches in
height, an engineering certification is required.
      (3)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest shall be in accordance
with division (D) below.
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
   (D)   Elevated buildings.  Fully enclosed areas, of new construction or
substantially improved structures, which are below the lowest floor:
      (1)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall only
be used for parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be partitioned or finished into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
      (2)   Shall not be temperature-controlled or conditioned;
      (3)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials below
the regulatory flood protection elevation;
      (4)   Shall include, in Zones A, AO, AH, AE and A99, flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the
following minimum design criteria;
         (a)   Provide a minimum of 2 openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings must be at least 1 square
inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (c)   If a building has more than 1 enclosed area, each area must have
openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and exit;
         (d)   The bottom of all required openings shall be no higher than 1
foot above the adjacent grade;
         (e)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other opening
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
         (f)   Foundation enclosures made of flexible skirting are not
considered enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires openings as outlined above.
   (E)   Additions/improvements.
      (1)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more non-
conforming than the existing structure; and
         (b)   A substantial improvement, with modifications/rehabilitations/
improvements to the existing structure or the common wall is structurally
modified more than installing a doorway, both the existing structure and the
addition must comply with the standards for new construction.
      (2)   Additions to pre-FIRM or post-FIRM structures that are a
substantial improvement with no modifications/rehabilitation/improvements to
the existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall shall
require only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
      (3)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction; and
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (4)   Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
or improvement of a building or structure taking place during a 1 year period,
the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure before the improvement or repair is started must comply with the
standards for new construction. For each building or structure, the 1 year
period begins on the date of the first improvement or repair of that building
or structure subsequent to the effective date of this chapter. Substantial
damage also means flood-related damage sustained by a structure on 2 separate
occasions during a 10-year period for which the cost of repairs at the time of
each flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of the market value of
the structure before the damage occurred. If the structure has sustained
substantial damage, any repairs are considered substantial improvement
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The requirement does not,
however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary or safety code violations identified by the building
official and that are the minimum necessary to assume safe living conditions;
or
         (b)   Any alteration of historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles.  Recreational vehicles placed on sites within a
Special Flood Hazard Area shall either:
      (1)   Temporary placement:
         (a)   Be on-site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; or
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. (A recreational
vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is
attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and has no
permanently attached additions).
      (2)   Permanent placement. Recreation vehicles that do not meet the
limitation of temporary placement shall meet all the requirements for new
construction.
   (G)   Temporary non-residential structures.  Prior to the issuance of a
Floodplain Development Permit for a temporary structure, applicants must submit
to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure(s) in
the event of a hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
      (1)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified should be minimal with total time on site not to
exceed 1 year;
      (2)   The name, address and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      (3)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
      (4)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with an entity
responsible for the physical removal of the structure when needed; and
      (5)   Designation, accompanied by documentation of a location outside the
Special Flood Hazard Area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   (H)   Accessory structures.  When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages, etc.) are to be placed within a Special Flood Hazard Area, the
following criteria shall be met:
      (1)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
      (2)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
      (3)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
      (4)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      (5)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with §
155.40(A);
      (6)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with §
155.40(D);
      (7)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
pressure during a flood shall be provided below regulatory flood protection
elevation in conformance with division (D)(1) above; and
      (8)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square feet
that satisfies the criteria outlined above does not require an elevation or
floodproofing certificate. Elevation or floodproofing certifications are
required for all other accessory structures in accordance with §
155.26(C).
   (I)   Tanks. When gas liquid storage tanks are to be placed within a special
flood hazard area, the following criteria shall be met:
      (1)   Underground tanks. Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood,
including the effects of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty;
      (2)   Above ground tanks, elevated. Above-ground tanks in flood hazard
areas shall be elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation
on a supporting structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement during conditions of the design flood. Tank- supporting
structures shall meet the foundation requirements of the applicable flood
hazard areas;
      (3)   Above-ground tanks not elevated. Above-ground tanks that do not
meet the elevation requirements of §
155.41(B) of this chapter shall be permitted in flood hazard areas provided the
tanks are designed, constructed, installed and anchored to resist all flood-
related and other loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during conditions
of the design flood and without release of contents in the floodwaters or
infiltration by floodwaters into the tanks. Tanks shall be designed,
constructed, installed, and anchored to resist the potential buoyant and other
flood forces acting on an empty tank during design flood conditions; and
      (4)   Tank inlets and vents. Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and
vents shall be:
         (a)   At or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or fitted
with covers designed to prevent the inflow of floodwaters or outflow of the
contents of the tanks during conditions of the design flood; and
         (b)   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic
loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during conditions of the design
flood.
   (J)   Other development.
      (1)   Fences in the regulated floodways and NEAs that have the potential
to block the passage of floodwaters, such as stockade fences and wire mesh
fences, shall meet the limitations of §
155.44;
      (2)   Retaining walls, sidewalks and driveways in regulated floodways and
NEAs. Retaining walls and sidewalks and driveways that involve the placement of
fill in regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of §
155.44; and
      (3)   Roads and watercourse crossings in regulated floodways in NEAs.
Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges, culverts, low water
crossings and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to travel from one side
of a watercourse to the other side, that encroach into regulated floodways
shall meet the limitations of §
155.44.
(Ord. passed 9-13-1999; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-2018)
Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.42  STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS
AND/OR FLOODWAYS.
    Within the Special Flood Hazard Areas as Approximate Zone A and established
in §
155.07, where no Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data has been provided by FEMA, the
following provisions, in addition to §
155.40, shall apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted within 20 feet each side
from top of bank or 5 times the width of the stream, whichever is greater,
unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
   (B)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection elevation
shall be determined based on one of the following criteria set in priority
order:
      (1)   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas
shall also comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be
elevated or floodproofed in accordance with standards in §
155.27(K) and (L);
      (2)   When floodway or non-encroachment data is available from a federal,
state, or other source, all new construction and substantial improvements
within floodway and non- encroachment areas shall also comply with the
requirements of §
155.41 and §
155.44;
      (3)   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals located within Special Flood Hazard Areas shall provide Base Flood
Elevation (BFE) data if development is greater than 5 acres or has more than 50
lots/manufactured home sites. Such Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data shall be
adopted by reference per §
155.07 to be utilized in implementing this chapter; and
      (4)   When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
federal, state or other source as outlined above, the reference level shall be
elevated or floodproofed (nonresidential) to or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation, as defined in §
155.05. All other applicable provisions of §
155.41 shall also apply.
(Ord. passed 9-13-1999; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-2018)
  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.43  STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BFE BUT WITHOUT ESTABLISHED
FLOODWAYS OR NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Along rivers and streams where BFE data is provided but neither floodway nor
non-encroachment areas are identified for a Special Flood Hazard Area on the
FIRM or in the FIS report, the following requirements shall apply to all
development within such areas:
   (A)   Standards outlined in §§
155.40 and
155.41; and
   (B)    Until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is designated,
no encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements or
other development, shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than 1 foot at any point within the community.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-2018)
§ 155.44  FLOODWAYS AND NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   (A)    Areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas are located
within the Special Flood Hazard Areas established in §
155.07. The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous areas
due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris
and potential projectiles. The following provisions, in addition to standards
outlined in §§
155.40 and
155.41, shall apply to all development within such areas.
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless:
         (a)   It has been demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would
not result in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the
base flood discharge through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in
accordance with standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain
Administrator prior to issuance of Floodplain Development Permit; or
         (b)   A Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLMOR) has been approved
by FEMA. A Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) must also be obtained within 6 months
of completion of the proposed development.
      (2)   If §
155.44(A) is satisfied, all development shall comply with all applicable flood
hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Manufactured homes shall be permitted, except replacement
manufactured homes in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision,
provided the following provisions are met:
         (a)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of §
155.41(C); and
         (b)   The encroachment standard of §
155.44(A) are met.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-2018)
§ 155.45  STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AO).
   (A)   Located within the Special Flood Hazard Areas established in §
155.07, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas.
   (B)   These areas have special flood hazards associated with base flood
depths of 1 to 3 feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where
the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate.
   (C)   In addition to §
155.40, all new construction and substantial improvements of all structures
shall have the reference level elevated to:
      (1)   At least as high as the depth number specified on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in feet, plus a freeboard of 2 feet, above the
highest adjacent grade; or
      (2)   At least 2 feet above the highest adjacent grade plus a freeboard
of 2 feet if no depth number is specified.
   (D)   All new construction and substantial improvements of all non-
residential structures may, in lieu of elevation, floodproof to the same depths
as listed above so that any space below that level shall be water-tight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy.
   (E)   Certification is required as per §§
155.26(C) and
155.41(B).
(Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
§ 155.50  EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION ORDINANCE.
   This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions
of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted as amended, and it is not the
intention to repeal but rather to re- enact and continue to enforce without
interruption of such existing provisions so that all rights and liabilities
that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be enforced. The enactment of
this chapter shall not affect any action, suit or proceeding instituted or
pending. All provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted on
September 13, 1999, as amended, which are not reenacted herein are repealed.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2018)
§ 155.51  EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   Nothing herein shall require any change in the plans, construction, size, or
designated use of any development or any part thereof for which a floodplain
development permit has been granted by the Floodplain Administrator or his or
her authorized agents before the passage of this chapter; provided, however,
that when construction is not begun under such outstanding permit within a
period of 6 months subsequent to the date of issuance of the outstanding
permit, construction or use shall be in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2018)
§ 155.99  PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $50
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the town from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed 9-13-1999; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
CHAPTER 156: UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
156.100   Title
   
156.101   Authority and enactment
   
156.102   Purpose
   
156.103   Effective date
   
156.104   Jurisdiction
   
156.105   Legal status provisions
   
156.106   Application of regulations
   
156.107   Interpretation of regulations
   
156.108   Compliance with plans
   
156.109   Transitional provisions
Zoning Districts
   
156.200   Districts established
   
156.201   Measurements and exceptions
   
156.202   Permitted land uses
   
156.203   General use district standards
   
156.204   Overlay district standards
Specific Use Standards
   
156.300   Use interpretation
   
156.301   Complexes
   
156.302   Residential use standards
   
156.303   Civic use standards
   
156.304   Commercial use standards
   
156.305   Accessory structures and uses
   
156.306   Temporary uses
   
156.307   Wireless telecommunication facilities
General Development Standards
   
156.400   Access
   
156.401   Off-street parking and loading
   
156.402   Landscaping, screening and buffering
   
156.403   Signs
   
156.404   Outdoor lighting
   
156.405   Outdoor storage and display
[Reserved]
Subdivision Standards
   
156.600   Applicability
   
156.601   Sequence of improvements
   
156.602   Streets
   
156.603   Lots and blocks
   
156.604   Utilities
   
156.605   Public facilities
   
156.606   Permanent reference points
   
156.607   Guarantee of improvements
Administration
   
156.700   Review bodies
   
156.701   Summary of review authority
   
156.702   Common review procedures
   
156.703   Text amendment
   
156.704   Rezoning
   
156.705   Planned development review
   
156.706   Subdivision review
   
156.707   Site plan review
   
156.708   Traffic impact analysis
   
156.709   Zoning permit
   
156.710   Conditional use review
   
156.711   Special use review
   
156.712   Temporary use permit
   
156.713   Sign permit
   
156.714   Common signage plan
   
156.715   Written interpretation
   
156.716   Variance
   
156.717   Administrative appeals
   
156.718   Zoning vested right
   
156.719   Nonconformities
   
156.720   Enforcement
Definitions
   
156.800   General
   
156.801   Abbreviations
   
156.802   Defined terms
   
Appendix A:Technical Drawings
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.100  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Unified Development Code
of the Town of Kenly, North Carolina, and may be referred to as this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.101  AUTHORITY AND ENACTMENT.
   The Town Board of Commissioners, pursuant to the authority conferred by the
General Assembly of the State of North Carolina in G.S. § 160A, Article 19,
does hereby ordain and enact into laws these articles and sections.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.102  PURPOSE.
   (A)   General. For the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals, and
general welfare, this chapter is adopted by the governing body to regulate and
restrict the height, number of stories, and size of buildings and other
structures, the percentage of lots that may be occupied, the size of yards,
courts, and other open spaces, the density of population, and the location,
general design, appearance and use of buildings, structures and land for trade,
industry, residence, or other purposes.
   (B)   Zoning. The zoning regulations in this chapter are in accordance with
a comprehensive plan and are designed to lessen congestion in the streets; to
secure safety from fire, panic, and other dangers; to promote health and the
general welfare; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding
of land; to avoid undue concentration of population; to preserve and improve
the character of development in the town and its neighborhoods; and to
facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools,
parks, and other public requirements. The regulations have been made with
reasonable consideration, among other things, as to the character of the
jurisdiction and its areas and their peculiar suitability for particular uses,
and with a view to conserving the value of buildings and encouraging the most
appropriate use of land throughout the jurisdiction.
   (C)   Subdivision. The purpose of this chapter is also to provide for the
orderly development of the town and its environs through the regulation of the
subdivision of land. The regulations contained herein are intended to
coordinate proposed development with existing development and with officially
adopted plans for the future development of the town; to ensure the provision
of adequate facilities for transportation, water, sewerage, and other public
facilities in subdivisions; to ensure the proper legal description,
documentation, and recording of subdivided land; and to promote the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the town.
(Ord. passed 6-  -2019)
§ 156.103  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter was adopted on May 8th, 2007, becoming effective May 8th, 2007.
(Ord. passed 6-  -2019)
§ 156.104  JURISDICTION.
   The boundaries of the zoning districts are shown upon the map accompanying
this chapter, and made a part hereof, entitled "Town of Kenly, North Carolina
Official Zoning Map" and dated May 8th, 2007. The zoning map and all the
notations, references and all amendments thereto, and other information shown
thereon is hereby made a part of this chapter the same as if such information
set forth on the map were all fully described and set out herein. The zoning
map properly attested is on file in the office of the Town Clerk and is
available for inspection by the public. When duly adopted by the Town Board of
Commissioners, these regulations shall also govern each and every subdivision
of land within the corporate limits of Kenly, as now or hereafter established,
and within the extraterritorial jurisdiction adopted by the town.
(Ord. passed 6-  -2019)
§ 156.105  LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Legal status provisions.
      (1)   In its interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of
the public health, safety, and general welfare. Whenever the requirements of
lawfully adopted rules, regulations, ordinances, deed restrictions, or
covenants are at variance with the requirements of this chapter, the most
restrictive, or that imposing the highest standards, shall govern.
      (2)   This chapter and various parts, sections, subsections, and clauses
thereof, are hereby declared to be severable. If any part, sentence, paragraph,
subsection, section, or clause is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid, it is
hereby provided that the remainder of the chapter shall not be effected
thereby. Whenever any condition or limitation is included in an order
authorizing a special use permit, conditional use permit, variance, certificate
of occupancy, or site plan approval or is offered by an applicant in an
application or public hearing for such permit or approval, it shall be
conclusively presumed that the authorizing officer or body considered such
condition or limitation necessary to carry out the spirit and purpose of this
chapter or the requirements of some provisions hereof, and to protect the
public health, safety, and welfare, and that the officer or body would not have
granted the authorization to which the condition or limitation pertains except
in the belief that the condition or limitation was lawful. Any and all
representations made by the applicant to the town on the record during the
application process, whether written or verbal, shall be deemed a part of the
application and may be relied upon in good faith by the town.
   (B)   Statute of limitations. In accordance with G.S. § 160A-364.1, a cause
of action as to the validity of this chapter, or amendment thereto, shall
accrue upon the adoption of this chapter or amendment thereto, and shall be
brought within 2 months as provided in G.S. § 1-54.1.
   (C)   Repeal of conflicting ordinance. All ordinances or parts of ordinances
of the town which are in conflict or inconsistent with this chapter are
repealed and superseded to the extent necessary to give this chapter full force
and effect.
   (D)   Administrator. The Town Planner is appointed to serve as administrator
of this chapter. If this position should at any time be vacant, then the Town
Manager shall designate another town official to act as administrator until the
office is filled.
   (E)   Examples and illustrations. The examples, illustrations, and any other
commentaries used in this chapter are for informational purposes only and are
not intended for the purpose of construing the substantive or procedural
provisions of this chapter or the town's intent in adopting specific provisions
in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-  2019)
§ 156.106  APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   The regulations set forth in this chapter shall affect all land, every
structure, and every use of land or structure, and shall apply as follows:
   (A)   Compliance required. No structure or land shall hereafter be used or
occupied, and no structure or part thereof shall be erected, moved onto, or
structurally altered, except in compliance with the regulations of this
chapter, for the district in which it is located.
   (B)   Zoning/building permit required. No building, sign, or structure or
any part thereof shall be erected, structurally altered or moved or changed in
use until a zoning/building permit has been issued by the Planning Director as
set forth in §
156.709.
(Ord. passed 6-  -2019)
§ 156.107  INTERPRETATION OF REGULATIONS.
   The regulations in this chapter shall be enforced and interpreted according
to the following rules:
   (A)   Minimum requirements. Regulations set forth by this chapter shall be
minimum regulations. If the requirements set forth in this chapter are at
variance with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted uses, regulations,
or ordinances, the more restrictive or higher standard shall govern.
   (B)   Restrictive covenants. Unless restrictions established by covenants
with the land are prohibited by, or contrary to, the provisions of this
chapter, nothing contained within this chapter shall be construed to render
such covenants inoperative.
(Ord. passed 6-  -2019)
§ 156.108  COMPLIANCE WITH PLANS.
   (A)   Approved plans. Permits or certificates issued on the basis of plans
and applications shall authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction as
set forth in such approved plans and applications and no other use,
arrangement, or construction.
   (B)   Adopted plans and policies. All proposed subdivisions shall be placed
and designed in a manner consistent with the adopted plans and policies of the
town.
(Ord. passed 6-  -2019)
§ 156.109  TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Conforming uses and structures.
      (1)   Any use or structure existing prior to the effective date of this
chapter that conforms to the regulations of this chapter for permitted uses,
and satisfies the dimensional requirements and any other applicable regulations
of the district in which it is located, may be continued, provided any use,
structural, or other changes shall comply with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Any use or structure existing prior to the effective date of this
chapter that would be permitted by this chapter as a special or conditional use
in the district in which it is located may be continued as if a special or
conditional use permit had been issued, provided that any use, structural, or
other changes shall comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Effect of amendment. If subsequent amendments to this chapter or the
zoning map result in the creation of additional nonconformities or
conformities, such nonconformities or conformities shall be governed by the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise stated in the amendment.
   (C)   Applications and prior approvals.
      (1)   Projects under construction prior to effective date.
         (a)   Any building or development for which a permit was issued before
the effective date of  this chapter may be completed in conformance with the
issued permit and other applicable permits and conditions, even if such
building or development does not fully comply with provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   Nothing in this chapter shall require a change to a phasing plan
approved prior to the adoption of this chapter, provided construction is
consistent with the terms and conditions of the phasing plan and proceeds to
completion in a timely manner. The applicant shall ensure that a period of no
more than 2 years without an active building permit occurs in order to continue
a project under a previous phasing plan.
         (c)   If construction is not completed according to the applicable
permit terms, the Town Board of Commissioners may, for good cause shown, grant
an extension of up to 1 year for  such construction. If the building is not
completed within the time allowed under the original permit or any extension
granted, then the building may be constructed, completed or occupied only in
compliance with this chapter.
      (2)   Applications submitted prior to effective date.
         (a)   Any complete application submitted before the effective date of
this chapter may be completed in conformance with applicable permits and
conditions of the regulations in effect at the time of submission of the
application, even if such application does not fully comply with provisions of
this chapter.
         (b)   If construction is not commenced or completed according to the
applicable terms of the application, the Town Board of Commissioners may, for
good cause shown, grant an extension of up to 1 year for such construction. If
the building is not completed within the time allowed under the original
application or any extension granted, then the building may be constructed,
completed or occupied only in compliance with this chapter.
      (3)   Prior approvals. Where a planned development, special use district,
special use or conditional use was approved prior to the effective date of this
chapter, the provisions of this chapter shall apply to the extent that they do
not conflict with the original conditions of approval.
   (D)   District conversion. The zoning district names in effect prior to the
effective date of this chapter are converted as shown below.
Previous New District
Previous                                New District
R-20    Residential District-AR         R-20    Residential District- AR
R-15    Residential District            R-11    Single-Family Residential
R-10    Residential District            R-6     Single-Family Residential
R-10 MF Multi-Family Residential        R-10 MF Multi-Family Residential
R-10 MH Mobile Home Residential         R-10 MH Mobile Home Residential
B-1 C   Central Business District       B-1     Central-Business
B-2 H   Highway Business District       B-2     Highway-Business
B-3 N   Neighborhood Business District  B-3     General-Business
B-4 F   Freeway Interchange District    B-4     Freeway Interchange District
I-1L    Light Industrial District       I-1     Industrial-Light
I-2H    Heavy Industrial District       I-2     Industrial-Heavy
I-P     Industrial Performance District - -     Removed
 
(Ord. passed 6-  -2019)
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 156.200  DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   To carry out the provisions of this chapter, within the jurisdiction of the
Town of Kenly, the following zoning districts are established.
   (A)   General use districts.
      (1)   Residential.
         (a)   R-20/AR | Single-Family Residential-20/Agriculture. This
district is comprised of low- density, single family dwellings, and other
selected uses which are compatible with the open and rural character of the
area. The established regulations for this district are designed to promote and
encourage an environment for family life and agriculture. To encourage higher
quality development and to ensure greater environmental protection, open space
subdivisions are permitted.
         (b)   R-10 | Single-Family Residential-10. Established to provide for
orderly suburban residential development and redevelopment. Intended to
maintain residential areas at relatively low densities characterized
predominantly by owner-occupied, single-family detached units. The district
requirements protect existing neighborhoods from undesirable uses and
residential conversions. To encourage higher quality development and to ensure
greater environmental protection, open space subdivisions are permitted. A
special permit process for higher intensity development is also allowed, using
discretion to balance issues of higher density with improved amenities.
         (c)   R-6 | Single-Family Residential-6. Established to provide for
orderly suburban residential development and redevelopment. Intended to
protect, preserve and enhance existing residential areas of higher density
which include multifamily dwellings mixed with other housing types. A special
permit  process for higher intensity development is also allowed, using
discretion to balance issues of higher density with improved amenities.
      (2)   Nonresidential.
         (a)   O-R | Office-Residential. Intended to accommodate modest-scale
professional occupations, along with single-family and multifamily residential
units, to serve as a neighborhood activity center and as a transition between
residential and more intense commercial uses.
         (b)   O-I | Office-Institutional. Intended to permit offices,
institutions and associated administrative, executive, professional and
research uses in new and existing structures and limited retail uses. Such
offices and instructional uses should be located along major roadways, adjacent
to commercial uses to act as a buffer between such roadways and residential
uses.
         (c)   B-1 | Central-Business. Intended to foster a vibrant, safe, town
center by encouraging residential development while retaining and further
developing a broad range of commercial, office, institutional, public, cultural
and entertainment uses and activities. The district is intended to define and
promote the town center as a desirable place to live, work and recreate.
         (d)   B-2 | Neighborhood-Business. Provides for small-scale commercial
uses offering primarily convenience shopping and services for adjacent
residential areas. Proximity to residences requires that commercial operations
are low intensity, unobtrusive and conducted at a scale and density  compatible
with the surrounding neighborhood. There is a relatively low demand on public
services, transportation and utilities.
         (e)   B-3 | Highway-Business. Provides locations of offices, service
uses, and businesses retailing durable  and convenience goods for the community
as a whole. Located on major and minor thoroughfares and, therefore, accessible
to and serve the entire community. Site design and buffering mitigate impacts
of traffic, operations and scale on adjacent businesses and residential
neighborhoods.
         (f)   I-1 | Industrial-Light. Promotes the retention and growth of
employment opportunities by providing areas where a broad range of industrial
uses may locate and where options for complementary uses exist. Industries
should be operated in a relatively clean and quiet manner, and should not be
obnoxious to nearby residential or business districts, warehousing and
wholesaling activities, and research facilities. The regulations of this
district are intended to prohibit the use of land for industries, that by their
nature, may create some nuisance to surrounding properties.
         (g)   I-2 | Industrial-Heavy. Promotes the retention and growth of
employment opportunities by providing areas where a broad range of industrial
uses may locate and where options for complementary uses exist. Indented for
heavy industries that, by their nature, may create some nuisance, and which are
not properly associated with or are compatible with nearby residential or
business districts, warehousing and wholesaling activities, and research
facilities.
   (B)   Special use districts.
      (1)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-382, the Town Board of Commissioners may
establish by ordinance various special use districts upon request by or on
behalf of all owners. Parallel special use districts shall be designated by
adding "-S" to the corresponding general use district.
      (2)   All zoning regulations that apply to the general use district are
minimum within the corresponding special use district.
      (3)   A special use district may provide for greater but not lesser
setbacks than those applicable to the corresponding general use district, and
may specify that only 1 or some of the uses permissible in the general use
district are permissible in the special use district.
      (4)   Under each special use district, all uses allowed as permissible in
the corresponding general use district are permitted only upon issuance of a
special use permit by the Town Board of Commissioners in accordance with §
156.711. However, a special use permit is not required as a prerequisite to
establish a special use district, since the district itself may be conditioned
and established first and then developed much later. However, a special use
permit may be submitted in tandem petition for the special use district, either
by preference of the applicant or upon request by the Town Board of
Commissioners or Planning Director, if either finds that such permit is
necessary in order to consider an application for a special use district.
      (5)   If for any reason any condition imposed pursuant to these
regulations is found to be illegal or invalid, or if the applicant should fail
to accept any condition, it is the intent of this chapter that the
authorization of such special use permit shall be null and void and of no
effect and that proceedings be instituted to rezone the property to its
previous zoning classification.
   (C)   Overlay districts.
      (1)   Historic Preservation (HP).  Reserved.
   (D)   Interpretation of district boundaries.
      (1)   Defined. District boundaries as are shown upon the zoning map of
the town adopted by this chapter as set forth in §
156.104, are hereby adopted, and the provisions of this chapter are hereby
established and declared to be in effect upon all land included within the
boundaries of each and every district shown on the map.
      (2)   Rules for interpretation.
         (a)   The Board of Adjustment is authorized to interpret the zoning
map and to pass upon disputed questions of lot lines or district boundary lines
and similar questions. If such questions arise in the context of an appeal from
a decision of the Planning Director, they shall be handled as provided in §
156.717.
         (b)   An application for a zoning map interpretation shall be
submitted to the Board of Adjustment by filing a copy of the application with
the Planning Director. The application shall contain sufficient information to
enable the Board of Adjustment to make the necessary interpretation.
         (c)   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of any district
shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
            1.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the
centerlines of streets, alleys, highways, streams or railroads shall be
construed to follow such centerlines;
            2.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following lot lines,
town limits or extraterritorial jurisdiction boundary lines, shall be construed
as following such lines, limits or boundaries;
            3.   Boundaries indicated as following shorelines shall be
construed to follow such shorelines, and in the event of change in the
shoreline shall be construed as following such changed shorelines;
            4.   Where a district boundary divides a lot or where distances are
not specifically indicated on the zoning map, the boundary shall be determined
by measurement, using the scale of the zoning map; and
            5.   Where any street or alley is hereafter officially vacated or
abandoned, the regulations applicable to each parcel of abutting property shall
apply to that portion of such street or alley added thereto by virtue of such
vacation or abandonment.
(Ord. passed 6-  -2019)
§ 156.201  MEASUREMENTS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   General. No lot, even though it may consist of 1 or more adjacent lots
of record in single ownership, shall be reduced in size so that the lot area
per dwelling unit, lot width, yard and lot coverage requirements, and other
requirements of this chapter are not maintained. This prohibition shall not be
construed to prevent the purchase or condemnation of narrow strips of land for
public utilities or street right-of-way purposes.
   (B)   Building coverage. The maximum area of the lot that is permitted to be
covered by buildings, including both principal structures and accessory
buildings. Building coverage does not include paved areas such as driveways,
uncovered porches or patios, decks, swimming pools or pool cages, or roof
overhangs of less than 3 feet.
   (C)   Impervious surface. The maximum area of the lot that is permitted to
be covered by buildings, including both principal structures and accessory
buildings, paved areas such as driveways, uncovered porches or patios, or solid
decks.
   (D)   Building separation. The required separation between any 2 buildings
located on the same lot or parcel of land.
   (E)   Gross floor area. The gross floor area of a building shall be measured
from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the centerline of walls
separating 2 buildings and shall include the following areas:
      (1)   The area of each floor of the structure;
      (2)   All attic space used for active commercial space; and
      (3)   All outside storage areas as permitted §
156.405.
   (F)   Height.
      (1 )    Height shall be de termine d by the ve rtical di stance fr om the
av erage of the finished ground  level to the highest finished roof surface of
any flat roof, to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the highest point of
the ridge of any pitched roof.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-23.png]
      (2)   No structure shall be erected or altered so as to exceed the height
limit or density regulations of this chapter for the district in which it is
located.
      (3)   The Board of Adjustment may grant a conditional use permit in
accordance with §
156.710, conditional use review, for structures such as spires, belfries,
cupolas, domes not intended for human occupancy, monuments, water tanks/towers,
transmission and telecommunication towers, chimneys, flagpoles, aerials or
antennas, or other similar structures which, by design or function, must exceed
established height limits of the district in which it is to be located.
      (4)   The Town Board of Commissioners may grant a special use permit in
accordance with §
156.711, for structures exceeding the maximum height limits of any district.
   (G)   Area. Area shall be measured in gross square feet or acres.
      (1)   Lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-25.png]
         (a)   A single lot of record, or more than 1 contiguous lot of record
in the same ownership, which lot or lots of record are not divided by any
street or public alley.
         (b)   Lot area shall be that area included in a single, undivided
piece of land.
         (c)   Minimum lot areas shall be exclusive of existing or proposed
public or private right-of-way, resource conservation areas, and required
recreation and  open space (see §
156.203).
      (2)   Parcel.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-27.png]
         (a)   A continuous quantity of land in the possession of or owned by,
or recorded as property of the same person or persons. A parcel may contain
multiple buildings or uses.
         (b)   Parcel area shall be that area required for each individual
building in a multi-building project. A parcel may include multiple lots.
      (3)   Site.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-29.png]
         (a)   A continuous quantity of land to be developed as a single
project. A site may contain multiple parcel or lots.
         (b)   Site area shall be the total land area of the proposed
development. A site may include multiple parcels or lots.
         (c)   Net site area shall mean the total gross area of the parcel,
minus any resource conservation areas located on the site.
   (H)   Width.
      (1)   Building width. Building width shall  be measured by the distance
along the front plane of any building (as determined by the location of an
entrance fronting on a street).
      (2)   Parcel or lot width. Parcel or lot width shall be measured by the
distance between the side lot lines (generally running perpendicular to a
street), measured at the rear edge of the street yard along a straight line
parallel to the front of the property line or along the chord of the front
property line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-31.png]
   (I )    Density.
      ( 1)    Density shall be allocated to each development parcel as follows:
         (a)   One hundred percent of the district density for the area outside
of resource protection areas; and
         (b)   Fifty percent of the district density for any resource
conservation areas.
      (2)   Density for single-family districts shall be calculated by dividing
1 acre of land (43,560 square feet) by the minimum single-family detached lot
size for the district.
   (J)   Yards and setbacks.
      (1)   General.
         (a)   All street yard and side yard (street) setbacks shall be
measured from the edge of the right-of-way.
         (b)   The minimum street yard requirements of this chapter for
residential dwellings shall not apply on any lot where the average street yard
of existing dwellings located on either side of the lot in question within the
same block and zoning district and fronting on the same side of the street is
less than the minimum required street yard. In such cases, the street yard on
such lots may be less than the required street yard, but not less than the
adjacent dwelling with the greatest street yard depth.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-33.png]
         (c)   Every part of every required yard shall be open and unobstructed
above the general ground level of the graded lot upward to the sky except as
provided or as otherwise permitted in this chapter.
         (d)   No part of a yard or other open space required about any
structure or use for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this
chapter shall be included as a part of a yard or other open space similarly
required for another structure or use.
      (2)   Types of yards.
         (a)   There are 4 types of yards - street, side (street), side
(interior), and rear yards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-35.png]
         (b)   Double frontage lots shall be considered to have 2 street yards.
      (3)   Measurement of yards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-37.png]
         (a)   Depth of a required street yard shall be measured at right
angles to a straight line joining the foremost points of the side lot lines. 
The foremost point of  the side lot lines, in the case of rounded property
corners at street intersections, shall be assumed to be the point at which the
side and front lot lines would have met without such rounding.
         (b)   Width of a required side yard shall be measured in such a manner
that the yard established is a strip of the minimum width required by district
regulations with its inner edge parallel with the side lot line.
         (c)   Depth of a required rear yard shall be measured in such a manner
that the yard established is a strip of the minimum width required by district
regulations with its inner edge parallel with the rear lot line.
      (4)   Yard encroachments. The following encroachment standards shall
apply to all required yards, so long as they do not extend into any easements:
         (a)   Parking structures may extend into the rear yard of a dwelling
unit.
         (b)   Chimneys, pre-fabricated chimneys, flues, or smokestacks may
extend a maximum of 4 feet into a required yard.
         (c)   Building eave or roof overhang may extend up to 24 inches into a
required yard; provided that such extension is at least 3 feet from the
property line, its lower edge is at least 7½ feet above the ground elevation,
and it is located at least 5 feet from any other building or eave.
         (d)   Sills and ornamental features may project up to 24 inches into
any required yard.
         (e)   Except in the B-1 District, fire escapes may project up to 8
feet into any required yard.
         (f)   Signs may extend into required yards in conformance with
standards found in the §
156.403.
         (g)   Pedestrian bridges, breezeways, building connections, and
supports of these structures may extend into required yards upon findings by
the approving authority that the connecting feature is necessary to provide
safe pedestrian access or to improve transit access.
         (h)   Security gates and guard stations may be located within any
required yard.
         (i)   Unenclosed patios, decks or terraces,  including lighting
structures, may extend up to 4 feet into any required side yard, or up to 8
feet into any required rear yard.
         (j)   Covered porches may encroach a maximum of 20% of the required
street yard setback depth.
         (k)   Mechanical equipment for residential uses, such as HVAC units
and security lighting, may extend into any required side yard but shall remain
at least 4 feet from the property line.
         (l)   Bay windows, entrances, balconies, and similar features that are
less than 10 feet wide  may extend up to 18 inches into any required yard, but
shall remain at least 6 feet from the property line.
         (m)   Structures below and covered by the ground may extend into any
required yard.
         (n)   Driveways may extend into any required yard, provided that, to
the extent practicable, they extend across rather than along the setback area
and may be no closer than 2 feet from the property line.
         (o)   Planters, retaining walls, fences, hedges, and other landscaping
structures may encroach into any required yard and may be no closer than 1 foot
from the property line subject to visibility restrictions.
         (p)   Utility lines located underground and minor structures accessory
to utility lines (such as hydrants, manholes, and transformers and other
cabinet structures) may encroach into any required yard.
(Ord. passed 6-  -2019)
§ 156.202  PERMITTED LAND USES.
   (A)   Housing types.
      (1)   Definitions. The following housing types are established to provide
a common terminology for housing in the Town of Kenly. All drawings are for
illustrative purposes only.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-39.png]
   (B)    Permit ted land use table. The permitted land use table is subject to
the explan ation as set forth below.
      (1)    Key to types of use.
         (a)    Permi tted.  A "P" indicates that a use is permitt ed in the
respect ive district subject to the specific use standards in §§
156.300 throug h
156.307. Such uses are also subject to all other applica ble require ments of
this chapter .
         (b)    Special use review. An "S" indicates a use that may be permitt
ed in the respect ive general use district only where approved by the Town
Board of Commissioners in accordance with §
156.711. Special uses are subject to all other applicable requirements of this
chapter, including the specific use standards contained in §§
156.300 through
156.307, except where such use standards are expressly modified by the Town
Board of Commissioners as part of the special use approval.
         (c)   Specific use standard. The "Specific Use Standard" column on the
table is a cross-reference to any specific use standard listed in §§
156.300 through
156.307. Where no cross-reference is shown, no additional use standard shall
apply.
         (d)   Uses not permitted. A blank cell in the use table indicates that
a use is not permitted in the respective district.
 R-20/ R-11 R-6 O-R O-1 B-1 B-2 B-3 I-1 I-2 Specific Use Standard
 AR
                            R-20/                                      Specific
                            AR    R-11 R-6 O-R O-1 B-1 B-2 B-3 I-1 I-2 Use
                                                                       Standard
Residential Uses                                              
   Single-family detachedP     P    P   P                      
                                                                       §
   Zero lot line              P    P                        156.302
                                                                       (A)
                                                                       §
   Alley-loaded               P    P                        156.302
                                                                       (B)
   Two-family                 S    S   S                      
                                                                       §
   Townhouse                  S    S   S   S   S   S   S         156.302
                                                                       (C)
                                                                       §
   Apartment                  S    S   S   S   S   S   S         156.302
                                                                       (D)
                                                                       §
   Upper-story residentia     S       P   P   P   P   P         156.302
                                                                       (E)
                                                                       §
   Mobile home           S                                 156.302
                                                                       (F)
                                                                       §
   Manufactured home parkS                                 156.302
                                                                       (G)
   Livestock(1) - (9)    P     S                             
Civic Uses                                                    
                                                                       §
   Adult care home (2 to P)    P    P                        156.303
                                                                       (A)
   Adult care home (7 to                                            §
12)                         S     S    S      S   S   S   S         156.303
                                                                       (A)
                                                                       §
   Adult care home (13+)                S   S   S   S         156.303
                                                                       (A)
                                                                       §
   Boarding house                       P      P            156.303
                                                                       (B)
                                                                       §
   Child care home (3 to S)    S    S   S                     156.303
                                                                       (C)
                                                                       §
   Child care center (9+)S     S    S   S   P   P   P   P         156.303
                                                                       (D)
   College                              P                   
   Civic club            S            P   P      P   P          
   Hospital                             P         P   S       
   Museum, library                   P   P   P   P   P          
   Nursing home          S         S      P      S   P          
   Park, open area*      S     P       P   P   P   P   P   P   P    
                                                                       §
   Place of worship      P     P                   S         156.303
                                                                       (E)
                                                                       §
   Public facility       S     S    S   S   P   S   P   P   S   S   156.303
                                                                       (F)
   School (public or                                                §
private)                    S     S    S      S         S         156.303
                                                                       (G)
   Technical, trade,     S     S    S      P   P      P   P   P    
business
   Utility, minor*       P     P    P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P    
   Utility, major*                                  P   P    
                                                                       §
   Wireless facility     S     S    S   S   S   S   S   S   S   S   156.303
                                                                       (H)
Commercial Uses                                               
                                                                       §
   Adult-oriented busines                        S      S   156.304
                                                                       (A)
   Agriculture (livestock                              P    
   Agriculture (sales)   P                              P    
   Amusement center                        S   S   S          
   Artist studio, gallery            P   P   P   P   P          
                                                                       §
   Bed & Breakfast       P            P   P   P   P            156.304
                                                                       (B)
   Cemetery              P                        P          
   Club, private                           S   S   S          
                                                                       §
   Contractor’s office                S   P      P   P   P   156.304
                                                                       (C)
   Electronic gaming                                                §
operations                                          S   S   S   156.304
                                                                       (O)
   Funeral home                         P   P   P   P          
   Gas station w/                                                   §
convenience                                   P   P   P   P   P   156.304
                                                                       ( E)
                                                                       §
   Hotel, motel                         S   S      P         156.304
                                                                       ( D)
   Indoor recreation*                      P   P   P   P       
   Kennel                S                        S          
                                                                       §
   Manufacturing, limited                  S      S   P   P   156.304
                                                                       ( F)
   Newspaper publisher                           P   P   P    
   Office, general*                  P   P   P   P   P   P       
   Office, medical*                  P   P   P   P   P   P       
   Outdoor recreation*                           P   P       
   Radio or television                           P   P   P    
studio
   Recreational club,                                               §
private                     S     S    S   S   S   S   S   S   S   S   156.304
                                                                       ( G)
   Restaurant                           P   P   P   P   P       
                                                                       §
   Retail, neighborhood*                   P   P   P         156.304
                                                                       ( H)
                                                                       §
   Retail, general*                        P      P         156.304
                                                                       ( H)
                                                                       §
   Self-storage facility                   S   P   P   P      156.304
                                                                       ( I)
                                                                       §
   Service, neighborhood*                  P   P   P         156.304
                                                                       ( J)
                                                                       §
   Service, general*                       P      P         156.304
                                                                       ( J)
   Tattoo parlor                           S   S   S          
                                                                       §
   Vehicle repair*                               S   P   P   156.304
                                                                       ( K)
                                                                       §
   Vehicle sales*                                P   P   P   156.304
                                                                       ( L)
                                                                       §
   Vehicle service*                        P      P   P   P   156.304
                                                                       ( M)
   Veterinarian, animal                                             §
hospital                    S                     P   P   P      156.304
                                                                       ( N)
   Warehouse/freight                             S   P   P    
Industrial Uses                                               
   Crematorium                                      P   P    
   Manufacturing, general                           P   P    
   Manufacturing, heavy*                               P    
   Research & development               P         P   P   P    
   Waste service*                                   P   P    
      P = Permitted | C = Conditional Use (§
156.710) | S = Special Use (§
156.711) | * = Group of Uses (§
156.300)
   1   Keeping of livestock in zoning districts as referenced in §
156.202(B)(2), Permitted Land Use Table, shall be applicable only to property
within the corporate limits of the town. The keeping of livestock within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town shall not be governed by the
requirements of this section.
   2   For purposes of this section, LIVESTOCK shall include: any species of
cattle or bovine, horses, or other equines, ponies, donkeys, mules, or any
other animal weighing more than 200 pounds. Livestock shall not include any
species of hog, pig, swine or other similar animal, nor shall livestock include
any species of domesticated canine or feline.
   3   Any existing situations of livestock being kept within the corporate
limits of the town prior to the effective date (June 8, 2010) of this section
shall be allowed to continue as non-conforming use as provided in §
156.719 of this code. Should any pre-existing livestock situation cease by
removal of structure or fence for more than 6 months (180 days), such use shall
no longer be allowed.
   4   Livestock shall be kept only on property consisting of a minimum of 1
contiguous acre with a primary residence located thereon. Livestock shall be
maintained or housed in the rear yard only.
   5   A maximum of 2 livestock per contiguous acre may be kept. The keeping of
greater than 6 livestock on any single parcel shall be presumed to be a
commercial animal boarding and/or breeding operation, which shall be governed
by the applicable sections of this code.
   6   No animal shall be maintained, housed, kept, boarded, or otherwise
allowed to remain within 100 feet of any dwelling or structure used for human
habitation by any entity other than the owner and immediate family of the owner
of the animal deemed livestock for the purposes of this section.
   7   A structure and enclosure approved by the Building Inspector and Zoning
Administrator shall be provided to adequately accommodate all livestock kept,
maintained or housed on the property. Any structure or enclosure shall meet the
requirements prescribed in within this code and the N.C. Building Codes. This
approval must be granted prior to the keeping of any animal deemed livestock as
per this section within said structure.
   8   All waste should be collected and properly disposed so as not to
constitute a nuisance for adjoining property owners and to protect public
health. Fly control measures shall be used to prevent any nuisance to adjoining
property owners.
   9   Additional considerations or conditions may apply as deemed necessary by
the Planning Board and/or Board of Commissioners in the case of a required
special use review.
 
(Ord. passed 6-  -2019)
§ 156.203  GENERAL USE DISTRICT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Intent. The general use district development standards establish lot
sizes and certain restrictions for residential and nonresidential development.
These standards allow for variety in housing types while maintaining the
overall character of neighborhoods and commercial areas of the town. Separate
standards are established to regulate development in each general use district.
This approach to district development standards has several public benefits:
      (1)   It allows for development that is more sensitive to the environment
and allows for the preservation of open and natural areas.
      (2)   It promotes quality site layout and energy-efficient development.
      (3)   It promotes affordable and life-cycle housing.
      (4)   It promotes development intensities that match existing and
proposed infrastructure investments.
   (B)   Resource conservation areas.
      (1)   No resource conservation area shall be counted towards lot area
required by this chapter. This shall not preclude the platting of lots in such
areas, provided that adequate lot area outside the resource conservation area
is provided to meet the minimum lot area requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   No resource conservation area shall be counted towards the
recreation and open space requirements (see §
156.203).
   (C)   Kenly general design guidelines. The Town of Kenly has established a
manual to guide the future growth of development. The design guidelines provide
a basis for making decisions about the appropriate treatment of new
construction and land development. Property owners, real estate agents,
developers, tenants, architects and decision makers should use the guidelines
contained in the document when considering a project. This will help establish
an appropriate direction for its design. For any project subject to review, the
applicant should refer to the guidelines at the outset, to avoid planning
efforts that later may prove to be inappropriate.
   (D)   How to use this section. This section is divided into the following:
 
Part (1): Residential Districts: This part sets forth specific standards for      §
development in residential districts.                                             156.203(E) through §
                                                                                  156.203(I)
Part (2): Nonresidential Districts: This part sets    forth specific standards §
for development in nonresidential districts.                                      156.203(J)
Part (3): Planned Development Districts: This part sets forth specific standards  §
for development in planned development districts.                                 156.203(K)
 
   (E)   Residential districts.
      (1)   Residential subdivision types. Development within the residential
districts allows a variety of subdivision types. Two types of residential
subdivisions are permitted, as follows.
         (a)   Conventional residential subdivision. Conventional residential
subdivision is a pattern of residential development that provides a majority of
property owners with substantial yards on their own property. Recreation and
open space dedication or payment of a fee-in-lieu is required for conventional 
residential subdivisions.
         (b)   Open space residential subdivision. Open space residential
subdivisions trade conventional minimum lot size and dimensions for additional
common recreation and open space. An open space residential subdivision shall
be a sufficient size to ensure adequate common recreation and open space can be
incorporated into the subdivision design. An open space residential subdivision
may allow additional density provided certain enhancements are incorporated
into the design of the subdivision.
         (c)   Conventional subdivision standards.
         (d)   Applicability. A conventional residential subdivision is
permitted in all residential districts subject to the following standards.
         (e)   Density. In the R-11 districts, townhouse parcels, apartment
parcels and upper-story residential units shall not exceed a density of 10
units per acre. In the R-6 District, townhouse parcels,  apartment parcels and
upper-story residential units shall not exceed a density of 12 units per acre.
         (f)   Development standards. Applicants utilizing the conventional
residential subdivision option shall meet all applicable development standards
as set forth in §§
156.400 through
156.405, General Development Standards and Natural Resource Protection.
Applicants shall comply with all other provisions in this chapter and all other
applicable laws.
         (g)   Lots not served by public water and sewer. No permit to install
a septic tank system shall be issued until the County Health Director has
determined by a field investigation of the area that the site is acceptable for
a septic tank system and that such a system can be installed at the site in
compliance with these rules and regulations. The field investigations shall
include evaluation of such factors as size and shape of lot or lots, character
and porosity of soil, percolation rate, topography, depth of water table, rock
or other impervious formations, location or proposed location of any water
supply wells, and the success or failure history of any other septic tank
systems in the area. The County Health Director shall not issue a permit if he
or she determines that the site is not acceptable for septic tank systems.
         (h)   Dimensional standards. Applicants utilizing the conventional
residential subdivision option shall meet the following standards. Applicants
shall comply with all other provisions in this chapter and all other applicable
laws.
     Single-  Zero Lot Alley- Two-   Town                 Town       Apartment
R-11 Family   Line     Loaded Family house(1)  (2 units) house(1)   (1)
     Detached                                             (3+ units)
            Single-                                                                     Town
R-11        Family    Zero Lot Line    Alley- Loaded    Two-       Town                 house   Apartment
            Detached                                    Family     house(1)  (2 units) (1) (3+ (1)
                                                                                        units)
Use         Permitted Permitted        Permitted        Special    Special Use          Special Special
                                                        Use                             Use     Use
                                                                                          
Site (min)                                              Set by                          Set by  Set by
Area        None      None             None             SpecialUse Set by Special Use   Special Special
(acres)                                                 Process    Process              Use     Use
                                                                                        Process Process
Recreation/ 1,245 sq. 1,245 sq.  ft./ 1,245 sq.  ft./
open space            unit             unit
Parcel (min
sq. ft.)    - -       - -              - -              12,000     12,000               20,000  20,000
Area per
building
Lot (min)                                                                                   
Lot area    11,000    11,000           11,000           Set by                         Set by  Set by
(sq. ft.)                                            Special    Set by Special Use   Special Special
Lot width   70        70               70               Use        Process              Use     Use
(ft.)       Required  Required         Required         Process                         Process Process
Water/sewer
                                                        Set by                          Set by  Set by
Yards (min.                                             Special    Set by Special use   Special Special
ft.)                                                    Use        Process              Use     Use
                                                        Process                         Process Process
                                                                                         
Street yard 30        30               20
Side yard   10        0                10
(interior)
Side yard   20        20               20
(total)
Side yard   20        20               10
(street)
Rear yard   25        25               25
Bulk (max)
Height                                                                                      
(ft.)       35        35               35               Set by                         Set by  Set by
Building    35%       35%              35%              Special    Set by Special Use   Special Special
coverage                                             Use        Process              Use     Use
Impervious  50%       50%              50%              Process                         Process Process
surface
 
   (1)   More than 1 building may be established on a single lot (see §
156.301, Complexes)
   (2)   In no instance shall the area of a residential lot be less than the
size determined to be adequate by the County Health Department after
investigations have been made of the soil and the ground water table.
    Single-  Zero Lot Alley-             Town        Town house(1)
R-6 Family   Line     Loaded Two- Family house(1) (2 (3+ units)    Apartment(1)
    Detached                             units)
            Single-                               Town      Town
R-6         Family    Zero Lot  Alley-    Two-    house(1)  house(1)  Apartment
            Detached  Line      Loaded    Family  (2 units) (3+       (1)
                                                            units)
Use         Permitted Permitted Permitted Special Special   Special   Special
                                          Use     Use       Use       Use
Site (min)                             Set by  Set by    Set by    Set by
Area        None      None      None      Special Special   Special   Special
(acres)     1,245 sq. 1,245 sq. 1,245 sq. Use     Use       Use       Use
Recreation/ ft./unit  ft./unit  ft./unit  Process Process   Process   Process
open space
Parcel (min
sq. ft.)    - -       - -       - -       8,000   8,000     20,000    20,000
Area per
building
Lot (min)                      
Lot area    11,000    11,000    11,000    Set by  Set by    Set by    Set by
(sq. ft.)                              Special Special   Special   Special
Lot width   50        50        50        Use     Use       Use       Use
(ft.)       Required  Required  Required  Process Process   Process   Process
Water/sewer
                                          Set by  Set by    Set by    Set by
Yards (min.                               Special Special   Special   Special
ft.)                                      Use     Use       Use       Use
                                          Process Process   Process   Process
Street yard 20        20        10
Side yard   6         0         6
(interior)
Side yard   12        12        12
(total)
Side yard   10        10        10
(street)
Rear yard   20        25        25
Bulk (max)
Height                                                           
(ft.)       35        35        35        Set by  Set by    Set by    Set by
Building    35%       35%       35%       Special Special   Special   Special
coverage                               Use     Use       Use       Use
Impervious  60%       60%       60%       Process Process   Process   Process
surface
 
   (1)   More than 1 building may be established on a single lot (see §
156.301, Complexes)
      (2)   Open space subdivision standards.
         (a)   Intent. The intent of an open space residential subdivision is
to provide a development alternative to a conventional subdivision. An open
space residential subdivision involves placing a cluster of home sites within a
portion of the development site, allowing housing units on smaller lots than
those permitted in a conventional residential subdivision to promote
environmentally sensitive, make more efficient use of the land and provide
additional common open space. Open space subdivision development is encouraged
by the Town of Kenly in the form of these flexible design and maximum density
provisions. Other purposes of an open space residential subdivision include the
following:
            1.   To preserve in perpetuity unique or sensitive natural
resources such as groundwater, floodplains, wetlands, streams, steep slopes,
woodlands and wildlife habitat.
            2.   To preserve important historic and archaeological sites.
            3.   To permit clustering of houses and structures in a manner that
will reduce the amount of infrastructure, including paved surfaces and utility
easements, necessary for residential development.
            4.   To reduce erosion and sedimentation by minimizing land
disturbance and removal of vegetation in residential development.
            5.   To promote interconnected greenways and corridors throughout
the community.
            6.   To create contiguous greenspace within and adjacent to the
development site.
            7.   To protect scenic views.
            8.   To protect prime agricultural land and preserve farming as an
economic activity.
         (b)   Applicability. An open space residential subdivision is
permitted in the R-20/AR, R-11, and R-6 districts subject to the following
standards.
         (c)   Mix of housing types. Two-family, townhouse, apartment, and
upper-story residential units may comprise no more than 50% of the total
dwelling units of a proposed open space residential subdivision. In no case
shall the district density be exceeded for the overall site. In the R-11 and R-
6 districts, townhouse parcels, apartment parcels, and upper-story residential
units shall not exceed a density of 10 units per acre.
         (d)   Development standards. Applicants utilizing the open space
residential subdivision option shall meet all applicable development standards
as set forth in §§
156.400 through
156.405, General Development Standards. Applicants shall comply with all other
provisions in this chapter and all other applicable laws.
         (e)   Dimensional standards. Applicants utilizing the open space
residential subdivision option shall meet the following standards. Applicants
shall comply with all other provisions this chapter and all other applicable
laws.
        Single-  Zero Lot Alley-             Town        Town       Apartment
R-20/AR Family   Line     Loaded Two- Family house(1) (2 house(1)   (1)
        Detached                             units)      (3+ units)
                                                                   Town      Town
R-20/AR     Single- Family Detached  Zero Lot  Alley-    Two-      house(1)  house(1)  Apartment
                                     Line      Loaded    Family    (2 units) (3+       (1)
                                                                             units)
Use         Permitted                Not       Not       Not       Not       Not       Not
                                     Permitted Permitted Permitted Permitted Permitted Permitted
Site (min)
Area        10                                                                     
(acres)
Recreation/
Open Space   
Total                                                                             
public or   12.5%
private     1,245 sq. ft./   unit
Min. public
Lot (min)    
Lot area    12,000
(sq. ft.)                                                                         
Lot width   48
(ft.)       Required
Water/sewer
Yards (min.                                                                        
ft.)
Street yard 21                                                                     
Side yard   9                                                                      
(interior)
Side yard   15                                                                     
(total)
Side yard   15                                                                     
(street)
Rear yard   18                                                                     
Bulk (max)   
Height      35
(ft.)
Building    35%                                                                    
coverage     
Impervious  50%
surface
     Single-  Zero Lot Alley-             Town        Town
R-11 Family   Line     Loaded Two- Family house(1) (2 house(1) (3+ Apartment(1)
     Detached                             units)      units)
            Single-                                 Town      Town
R-11        Family    Zero Lot  Alley-    Two-      house(1)  house(1)  Apartment
            Detached  Line      Loaded    Family    (2 units) (3+       (1)
                                                              units)
Use         Permitted Permitted Permitted Permitted Permitted Permitted Permitted
Site (min)
Area                                                               
(acres)     10        10        10        10        10        10        10
Recreation/ 12.5%     12.5%     12.5%     12.5%     12.5%     12.5%     12.5%
open space
Parcel (min
sq. ft.)    - -       - -       - -       12,000    12,000    20,000    20,000
Area per
building
Lot (min)                                                          
Lot area    11,000    11,000    11,000    13,000    11,000    7,000     - -
(sq. ft.)                                                          
Lot width   50        50        42        75        42        25        - -
(ft.)       Required  Required  Required  Required  Required  Required  Required
Water/sewer
Yards (min.
ft.)
Street yard 25        25        15        25        25        25        25
Side yard   6         0         5         6         6         - -       15
(interior)
Side yard   12        12        10        12        - -       15        30
(total)
Side yard   15        15        10        15        15        15        15
(street)
Rear yard   15        15        15        15        15        15        15
Building    - -       - -       - -       - -       20        20        20
separation
Bulk (max)
Height                                                             
(ft.)       35        35        35        35        35        35        35
Building
coverage    35%       35%       35%       35%       35%       35%       35%
Impervious  50%       50%       50%       50%       50%       50%       50%
surface
 
   (1)   More than 1 building may be established on a single lot (see §
156.301 Complexes)
         (f)   Utilities. To the maximum extent determined feasible, utilities
in open space residential subdivisions shall be placed underground.
         (g)   Project boundary buffer.
            1.   No buffer is required where the width of the project's
perimeter lots is equal to or greater than the minimum lot width of the
adjoining development or the minimum lot width required by the zoning district
applied to any adjoining undeveloped parcel.
            2.   Where narrower lot widths are provided, a Class C buffer shall
be provided (see §
156.402) along all project boundaries of an open space subdivision.
      (3)   Recreation and open space requirements.
         (a)   Applicability. Recreation and open space is an integral part of
both conventional and open space residential subdivisions. The minimum
recreation and open space requirement for each subdivision type is set forth
below. No additional recreation or open space shall be required on the site,
except where otherwise required by state or federal law. In the case that a
subdivision is being developed in phases, the amount of recreation and open
space shall be computed separately for each phase, but may be combined with
existing recreation and open space in earlier phases to create a larger uniform
area.
         (b)   All residential subdivisions.
            1.   All residential development, except minor subdivisions (see §
156.706), shall be required to either dedicate a portion of the land in the
subdivision, or  land in another location if approved by Town Board of
Commissioners, for recreation or open space use or make a payment-in-lieu of
dedication at a rate as set forth in the Town's Comprehensive List of Fees and
Charges per lot or dwelling unit. If the development is approved which provides
private recreation and open space, to be maintained by a homeowners or property
management organization, and meeting the minimum standards of this section, the
required fee-in-lieu payment shall be as set forth in the Town's Comprehensive
List of Fees and Charges per lot or dwelling unit. A combination of dedication
and payment-in-lieu may be used to meet these requirements.
            2.   At least 1,245 square feet of land shall be required for each
proposed dwelling unit. Such land shall not include resource conservation
areas. The Town Board of Commissioners reserves the right to refuse to accept
dedication of parcels for subdivisions, in which case the applicant shall pay
the fee-in-lieu of dedication, in order that the town shall use such payment
for the acquisition or development of recreation and open space sites.
            3.   Location of the proposed recreation and open space areas, its
suitability for recreational  use, and any recreational plans adopted by the
town shall be considered in determining whether to accept dedication or
payment-in-lieu. The decision shall be made by the Town Board of Commissioners
in approval of preliminary subdivision plans or special use permits, or by the
Planning Director in approval of site plans. Any decision of the Planning
Director relative to this section may be appealed to the Town Board of
Commissioners.
         (c)   Open space residential subdivision. 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-41.png]
 
         1.   All development utilizing the open space residential subdivision
option shall provide recreation and open space equal to 12.5% of the net site
area as public or private recreation and open space.
            2.   Where the Town Board of Commissioners accepts dedication of a
portion or all of this recreation and open space, the dedicated portion shall
receive 100% credit toward the requirement for recreation and open space in
division (b) above. The Town Board of Commissioners reserves the right to
refuse to accept dedication.
            3.   Where the recreation and open space is retained privately, 
or  deemed  unacceptable  as public recreation and open space by the Town Board
of Commissioners, it shall receive only 50% credit against the recreation and
open space requirement, in recognition of a reduced burden on the town's public
recreation and open space system.
         (d)   Configuration of recreation and open space.
            1.   The minimum width for any required recreation and open space
shall be 50 feet. Exceptions may be granted by the Town Board of Commissioners
for items such as trail easements, mid-block crossings, linear parks/medians,
when their purpose meets the intent of this section.
            2.   At least 60% of the required recreation and open space shall
be in a contiguous parcel. For the purposes of this section, contiguous shall
include any recreation and open space bisected by a residential street
(including a residential collector), provided that:
               a.   A pedestrian crosswalk is constructed to provide access to
the recreation and open space on both sides of the street; and
               b.   The right-of-way area is not included in the calculation of
minimum recreation and open space required.
            3.   The recreation and open space shall adjoin any neighboring
areas of recreation and open space, other protected areas, and non-protected
natural areas that would be candidates for inclusion as part of a future area
of protected recreation and open space.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-43.png]
 
            4.   The required recreation and open space shall be directly
accessible to the largest practicable number of lots within the subdivision.
Non-adjoining lots shall be provided with safe, convenient access to the open
space (i.e. mid-block connections in logical locations). No lot within the
subdivision should be further th an a ¼-mile radius from the required
recreation and open space. This ra dius shall be measured in a straight line,
without regard for street, si dewalk or trail connections to the open space.
            5.   Access to the recreation and o pen space shall be provided
either by an abutting street or easement. S uch easement shall be not less than
30 feet wide.
            6.   At least 25% of the recreation and open space shall be
improved. Trails may be developed in accordance with the Kenly General Design
Guidelines. Other improved recreation and open space areas shall be developed
as set forth below. The shape, topography, and subsoils shall be appropriate to
the improvements proposed. Where recreation or open space consists of prime
agricultural land, this improvement requirement shall not apply.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-45.png]
               a.   Tot lot and playgrounds (private only). Playgrounds provide
play areas for children as well as open shelter and benches. Playgrounds may be
built within Squares, Greens, Mini-Parks and Neighborhood Parks or may stand
alone within a residential block.
                  Playgrounds shall be designed with commercial grade play
equipment for 2 age groups: tot lot for children ages 1 to 5; and separate play
equipment for children ages 6 to 10. May include picnic units and shelters.
Minimum requirements include 2 park benches and 1 trash receptacle. Must have
shock absorbing surface with a maximum 2% slope. Playgrounds must meet all
federal, state and local regulations and be compliant with the Americans with
Disabilities Act. Due to the continuing maintenance obligations, the town does
not accept dedication of tot lots and playgrounds.
               b.   Mini-park (private only). The Mini-Park provides active
recreational facilities for the use by the residents of the immediate
surrounding neighborhood within the development.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-47.png]
                  Size is from 2,500 sq. ft. to 1 acre. May include: tennis
courts, basketball courts, playgrounds and seating accommodations. Each mini-
park shall be centrally located and easily accessible so that it can be
conveniently and safely reached and used by those persons in the surrounding
neighborhood it is designed to serve. Rear facing lots are allowed. Mini-parks
shall be attractively landscaped and be provided with sufficient natural or
man-made screening or buffer areas to minimize any negative impacts upon
adjacent residences. Due  to the continuing maintenance obligations, the town
does not accept  dedication of mini-parks.
               c.   Plaza. Plazas are for passive recreation use adjacent to a
civic or commercial building. Plazas are paved in brick or another type of
impervious surface.
                  Plazas shall be level, stepped or gently sloping. At no time
shall a plaza's horizontal length or width be greater than 3 times the height
of surrounding buildings. Size is from 2,000 to 30,000 sq. ft.
               d.   Squares. Squares are formal areas for passive recreation
use bound by streets or front facing lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-49.png]
                  Squares shall be bound by streets on a minimum of 3 sides or
75% of their perimeter and may be bound by front facing lots on 1 side or 25%
of their perimeter. No rear facing lots allowed adjacent to a square. Trees
plantings are encouraged parallel to the street right of way. Geometrical tree
planting layouts for internal plantings are encouraged. Minimum size is 500 sq.
ft. to 1 acre.
               e.   Green. The green is an informal area for passive use bound
by streets or front facing lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-51.png]
                  A green shall be bound by streets on a minimum of 3 sides or
75% of their perimeter and may be bound by front facing lots on 1 side or 25%
of their perimeter. No rear facing lots allowed adjacent to a green. Tree
plantings can be informal and the topography irregular. Greens may be used to
preserve specimen trees. Size is 500 sq. ft. to 1 acre.
               f.   Neighborhood park. Neighborhood parks are designed for
active or passive recreation use. Maximum park size can exceed 5 acres if the
neighborhood park creates an open space that services an entire neighborhood or
a group of neighborhoods; or incorporates physical features which are an asset
to the community (i.e. lake or river frontage, high ground, or significant
stands of trees).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-53.png]
                  Minimum size from 1 to 5 acres. Neighborhood parks shall be
bound by streets on a minimum of 50% of their perimeter. Front facing lots are
encouraged around the perimeter. Neighborhood parks shall include benches and
walking paths. Neighborhood parks may include but are not limited to: tennis
courts, racquet ball courts, basketball courts, volley ball courts, ball
fields, swings, slides, playgrounds, dog parks, benches, restrooms, picnic
units, shelters, walking paths and parking areas.
               g.   Clubhouse/pool amenity area. Clubhouse/pool areas can be
found in a neighborhood park, mini-park or alone as an amenity area for the
residents of a developed community. Clubhouse/pool areas can include: swimming
pools, group activity room, gazebos, outdoor eating areas, and exercise
stations.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-55.png]
                  Pools should be a minimum size of 1,000 sq. ft. Clubhouses
and swimming pools must meet all applicable building and health codes for the
town and the State of North Carolina.
               h.   Greenway. Greenways typically follow natural or constructed
features such as streams or roads and are designed to incorporate natural
settings such as creeks and significant stands of trees within neighborhoods,
and are used for transportation, recreation, and environmental protection.
Greenways differ from parks; plazas and squares in that their detailing is
natural (i.e. informally planted) except along rights-of-way, and may contain
irregular topography.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-57.png]
                  Design of the greenway should incorporate conservation of
existing mature  tree canopy and landscape, protection of existing natural
drainage ways and creeks. Improvements shall include paved walks/trails and
benches, and trash receptacles.
         (e)   Adopted municipal and county plans. Adopted municipal and county
plans shall be taken into consideration when evaluating land proposals.
         (f)   Permitted uses of recreation and open space. Uses of recreation
and open space may include the following:
            1.   Conservation areas for natural, archeological or historical
resources;
            2.   Meadows, woodlands, wetlands, wildlife corridors, game
preserves, or similar conservation-oriented areas;
            3.   Pedestrian or multipurpose trails;
            4.   Passive recreation areas;
            5.   Active recreation areas, provided that impervious area is
limited to no more than 50% of the total recreation and open space;
            6.   Golf courses (excluding clubhouse areas and maintenance
facilities), provided the area does not exceed 50% of the required recreation
and open space, and further provided that impervious area is limited to no more
than 10% of the total recreation and open space;
            7.   Above-ground utility rights-of-way, provided the area does not
exceed 50% of the required recreation and open space;
            8.   Agriculture, horticulture, silviculture or pasture uses,
provided that all applicable best management practices are used to minimize
environmental impacts;
            9.   Landscaped stormwater management facilities;
            10.   Easements for drainage, access, and underground utility
lines; and
            11.   Other conservation-oriented uses compatible with the purposes
of this chapter.
         (g)   Prohibited uses of recreation and open space. Recreation and
open space shall not include the following:
            1.   Community or individual wastewater disposal systems;
            2.   Streets (except for street crossings as expressly provided
above) and parking areas; and
            3.   Other activities as determined by the applicant and recorded
on the legal instrument providing for permanent protection.
         (h)   Ownership and management of recreation and open space.
            1.   Ownership. Recreation and open space shall be accepted and
owned by 1 of the following entities:
               a.   Town of Kenly. The responsibility for maintaining the
recreation and open space, and any facilities shall be borne by the town.
               b.   Land conservancy or land trust. The responsibility for
maintaining the recreation and open space, and any facilities shall be borne by
a land conservancy or land trust.
               c.   Homeowners association. A homeowners association
representing residents of the subdivision shall own the recreation and open
space. Membership in the association shall be mandatory and automatic for all
homeowners of the subdivision and their successors. The Homeowners' Association
shall have lien authority to ensure the collection of dues from all members.
The responsibility for maintaining the recreation and open space, and any
facilities shall be borne by the Homeowner's Association.
               d.   Private landowner. A private landowner may retain ownership
of recreation and open space. The responsibility for maintaining the recreation
and open space, and any facilities shall be borne by the private landowner.
            2.   Management. Applicants shall submit a plan for the management
of recreation and open space and other common facilities that:
               a.   Allocates responsibility and guidelines for the maintenance
and operation of the recreation and open space, and any facilities located
thereon, including provisions for ongoing maintenance and for long-term capital
improvements;
               b.   Estimates the costs and staffing requirements needed for
maintenance and operation of, and insurance for, the recreation and open space
and outlines the means by which such funding will be obtained or provided;
               c.   Provides that any changes to the plan be approved by the
town; and
               d.   Provides for enforcement of the plan.
            3.   Maintenance.
               a.   Passive recreation and open space maintenance is limited to
removal of litter, dead tree and plant materials (that is obstructing
pedestrian movement), and brush; weeding and mowing. Natural water courses are
to be maintained as free-flowing and devoid of debris. Stream channels shall be
maintained so as not to alter floodplain levels.
               b.   No specific maintenance is required for agricultural uses.
               c.   Active recreation and open space areas shall be accessible
to all residents of the development. Maintenance is limited to ensuring that
there exist no hazards, nuisances or unhealthy conditions.
            4.   Failure to maintain. In the event the party responsible for
maintenance of the recreation and open space fails to maintain all or any
portion in reasonable order and condition, the town may assume responsibility
for its maintenance and may enter the premises and take corrective action,
including the provision of extended maintenance. The costs of such maintenance
may be charged to the Homeowner's Association, or to the individual property
owners that make up the Homeowner's Association, and may include administrative
costs  and  penalties. Such costs shall become a lien on all subdivision
properties.
         (i)   Legal instrument for permanent protection.
            1.   The recreation and open space shall be protected in perpetuity
by a binding legal instrument that is recorded with the deed. The instrument
shall be 1 of the following:
               a.   A permanent conservation easement in favor of either:
                  (i)   A land trust or similar conservation-oriented non-
profit organization with legal authority to accept such easements. The
organization shall be bona fide and in perpetual existence and the conveyance
instruments shall contain an appropriate provision for re-transfer in the event
the organization becomes unable to carry out its functions; or
                  (ii)   A governmental entity with an interest in pursuing
goals compatible with the purposes of this chapter. If the entity accepting the
easement is not the town, then a third right of enforcement favoring the town
shall be included in the easement.
               b.   A permanent restrictive covenant for conservation purposes
in favor of  a governmental entity.
               c.   An equivalent legal tool that provides permanent
protection, if approved by the town.
            2.   The instrument for permanent protection shall include clear
restrictions on the use of the recreation and open space. These restrictions
shall include all restrictions contained in this chapter, as well as any
further restrictions the applicant chooses to place on the use of the
recreation and open space. Where appropriate, the instrument shall allow for
stream or habitat restoration within the easement area.
      (4)   Nonresidential development in residential districts. As set forth
in the Permitted Land Use Table (see §
156.202) certain nonresidential uses are permitted in residential districts.
Permitted nonresidential uses shall meet the following dimensional standards.
Applicants shall comply with all other provisions of this chapter and all other
applicable laws.
 R-20/AR R-11 R-6
                         R-20/AR  R-11     R-6
Lot (min)
   Lot area (sq. ft.) 20,000   10,000   6,000
   Lot width (ft.)
   Water/sewer        50       50       50
                         Required Required Required
Yards (min ft.)
   Street yard        35       30       20
   Side yard (interior15       10       6
   Side yard (total)  30       20       12
   Side yard (street) 25       20       10
   Rear yard          30       25       20
Bulk (max)
   Height (ft.)       35(1)    35(1)    35(1)
   Building coverage  35%      35%      35%
   Impervious surface 50%      50%      60%
 
   (1)   The Town Board of Commissioners may grant a special use permit in
accordance with §
156.711, Special Use Review, allowing nonresidential buildings to exceed the
maximum height limits of the district.
   (F)   Nonresidential districts.
      (1)   Nonresidential district standards.
         (a)   Development standards. Applicants shall meet all applicable
development standards as set forth in §§
156.400 through
156.405. Applicants shall comply with all other provisions in this chapter and
all other applicable laws.
      (2)   Nonresidential dimensional standards.
         (a)   As set forth in the Permitted Land Use Table (see §
156.202) certain nonresidential uses are permitted in nonresidential districts.
Permitted nonresidential uses shall meet the following dimensional standards.
Applicants shall comply with all other provisions of this chapter and all other
applicable laws.
 O-R O-I B-1 B-2 B-3 I-1 I-2
                            O-R      O-I      B-1      B-2      B-3      I-1      I-2
Parcel (min)
   Parcel area (sq. ft.) 6,000    6,000    None     6,000    8,000    20,000   20,000
   Parcel width (ft.)                                                     
Water/sewer                 50       50       None     50       60       100      100
                            Required Required Required Required Required Required Required
Yards (min. ft.)
   Street yard (min.)    20       20       0        20       25       50       50
   Street yard (max)     None     None     10       None     None     None     None
   Side yard (interior)  6        10       0        10       15       20       20
Abutting residential        6        30       30       30       30       30       30
district
   Side yard (street)    10       20       0        10       25       30       30
   Rear yard             20       20       0        20       30       40       40
Abutting residential        20       30       30       30       30       40       40
district
   Building separation   20       20       20       20       20       20       20
Bulk (max)
   Height (ft.)          35       60       50       35       60       50       50
   Building coverage     50%      50%      70%      50%      50%      50%      50%
   Impervious surface                                                     
                            75%      75%      - -      75%      75%      75%      75%
 
         (b)   More than 1 building may be permitted be on a single lot (see §
156.301).
         (c)   In the B-1 District, no rear yard shall be less than that of the
nearest building facing on the same side of the street with the least rear yard
depth. In no case shall the required rear yard setback exceed 10 feet from the
rear property line.
         (d)   The Town Board of Commissioners may grant a special use permit
in accordance with §
156.711, allowing specified nonresidential buildings to exceed the maximum
height limits of the district.
      (3)   Residential dimensional standards.
         (a)   As set forth in the Permitted Land Use Table (see §
156.202) certain residential uses are permitted in nonresidential districts.
Dimensional standards for townhouses and apartments are established through the
special use process (see §
156.711). However, except in the B-1 District, no townhouse or apartment shall
be established on a parcel less than 20,000 square feet in area.
         (b)   Upper-story residential is permitted on the upper floors of a
nonresidential building and shall conform with all lot, yard and bulk
requirements of the principal building.
         (c)   Except in the B-1 District, townhouse and apartment parcels and
upper-story residential units shall not exceed a density of 12 units per acre.
   (G)   Planned development districts.
      (1)   Planned development district standards.
         (a)   General provisions for all planned developments (PR-R, PD-C, PD-
I, PD-MU).
            1.   Rezoning criteria. In approving a rezoning for a planned
development, the Town Board of Commissioners shall find the district
designation and planned development master plan comply with the general
standards for all planned development in this section and the specific
standards for the proposed planned development listed in divisions 2. through
5. below, respectively.
            2.   Planned development master plan. The development proposed in
the master plan is compatible with the character of surrounding land uses and
maintains and enhances the value of surrounding properties. The master plan
shall be prepared by a professionally certified landscape architect, engineer
or architect.
            3.   Design guidelines and dimensional standards. Each planned
development shall provide a comprehensive set of design guidelines that
demonstrate the project will be appropriate within the context of the
surrounding properties and the larger community. All bulk, area and dimensional
standards shall be established by the Town Board of Commissioners at the time
of approval.
            4.   Development standards. Unless specifically waived by the Town
Board of Commissioners, all standards specified  in §§
156.400 through
156.405 shall apply.
            5.   Resource conservation areas.
               a.   No resource conservation area shall be counted towards lot
area. This shall not preclude the platting of lots in such areas, provided that
adequate lot area outside the resource conservation area is provided.
               b.   No resource conservation area shall be counted towards the
recreation and open space requirements (see below).
            6.   Recreation and open space. The planned development master plan
shall meet or exceed the recreation and open space requirements of an open
space residential subdivision (see §
156.203).
            7.   Stormwater management. When determined necessary by the Town
Board of Commissioners, the planned development master plan shall contain a
comprehensive stormwater management plan prepared by a professional engineer
licensed in the State of North Carolina.
            8.   Phasing. If development is proposed to occur in phases, the
planned development master plan shall include a phasing plan for the
development, and if appropriate, with specific build-out dates. Guarantees
shall be provided that project improvements and amenities that are necessary
and desirable for residents and tenants of the project, or that are of benefit
to the town, are constructed with the first phase of the project, or, if this
is not possible, then as early in the project as is technically feasible.
      (2)   Planned development-residential (PD-R) district.
         (a)   Minimum requirements.
            1.   The Planned Development-Residential District is an option
provided to encourage a mix of housing options within a comprehensively planned
development, allowing a density bonus in return for the provision of a higher
quality development.
            2.   Unless waived by the Town Board of Commissioners, the PD-
R District is permissible on tracts of land of least 10 contiguous acres.
         (b)   Permitted uses. All uses permitted by right, as conditional
uses, and as special uses in the R-E, R-10, R-8, R-6 districts are permitted in
a PD-R District (see §
156.202), subject to approval by the Town Board of Commissioners.
         (c)   Project boundary buffer.
            1.   No buffer is required where the width of the project's
perimeter lots is equal to or greater than the minimum lot width of the
adjoining development or the minimum lot width required by the zoning district
applied to any adjoining undeveloped parcel.
            2.   Where narrower lot widths are provided, a Class C buffer shall
be provided (see §
156.402) along all project boundaries.
      (3)   Planned development-commercial (PD-C) district.
         (a)   Minimum requirements.
            1.   The Planned Development-Commercial District is an option
provided to enhance the design of a commercial development within a
comprehensively planned development by allowing for additional flexibility not
available in nonresidential districts.
            2.   Unless waived by the Town Board of Commissioners, the minimum
tract of land for rezoning is 2 contiguous acres.
         (b)   Permitted uses.  All uses permitted by right, as conditional
uses, and as special uses in the O-I, B-1, B-2, and B-3 districts are permitted
in a PD-C District (see §
156.202), subject to approval by the Town Board of Commissioners.
         (c)   Project boundary buffer.
            1.   Unless waived by the Town Board of Commissioners, a Class B
buffer (see §
156.402) shall be provided along all project boundaries abutting a
nonresidential district.
            2.   Unless waived by the Town Board of Commissioners, a Class C
buffer (see §
156.402) shall be provided all project boundaries abutting a residential
district.
      (4)   Planned development-industrial (PD-I) district.
         (a)   Minimum requirements.
            1.   The planned development-industrial district is an option
provided to encourage unified industrial complexes of high quality by allowing
for additional flexibility not available in nonresidential districts.
            2.   The PD-I District is permissible on tracts of at land of least
10 contiguous acres.
         (b)   Permitted uses.
            1.   All uses permitted by right, as conditional uses, and as
special uses in the B-1, B-2, B- 3, I-1, and I-2 districts are permitted in a
PD-I District (see §
156.202), subject to approval by the Town Board of Commissioners.
            2.   Non-industrial or non-manufacturing uses located in a PD-
I District are intended to serve the needs of the development and not the needs
of a surrounding area. Areas designated for non-industrial and non-
manufacturing activities shall be oriented towards the interior of the project
and shall not be located on exterior or perimeter streets or property
boundaries, but shall be centrally located within the project to serve the
employees of the district.
         (c)   Project boundary buffer. A Class C buffer shall be provided (see
§
156.402) along all project boundaries.
      (5)   Planned development-mixed use (PD-MU) district.
         (a)   Minimum requirements.
            1.   The planned development-mixed use district is an option
provided to encourage coordinated mixed use developments.
            2.   Unless waived by the Town Board of Commissioners, the minimum
tract of land for rezoning is 2 contiguous acres.
         (b)   Permitted uses.
            1.   All uses permitted by right, as conditional uses, and as
special uses in the in the Permitted Use Table is permitted in a PD-MU District
(see §
156.202), subject to approval by the Town Board of Commissioners.
            2.   The mix of uses shall be established by the Town Board of
Commissioners at the time of approval.
         (c)   Project boundary buffer. Unless waived by the Town Board of
Commissioners, a Class C buffer shall be provided (see §
156.402) along all project boundaries.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.204  OVERLAY DISTRICT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Historic preservation district. Reserved.
(Ord. passed 6-  -2019)
SPECIFIC USE STANDARDS
§ 156.300  USE INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Grouping of uses. As set forth in the Permitted Land Use Table (see §
156.202) certain uses are grouped together based on common functional, product,
or physical characteristics. Characteristics include the type and amount of
activity, the type of customers, how goods or services are sold or delivered,
likely impact on surrounding properties, and site conditions. Grouping uses
provides a systematic basis for assigning uses to appropriate general use
districts. Any use not specifically set forth in this chapter is expressly
prohibited, unless determined otherwise as set forth in division (F) below.
   (B)   Uses not grouped. As set forth in the Permitted Land Use Table (see §
156.202), due to their specific nature and characteristics, certain uses have
not been grouped. Individual uses may be defined in §
156.802.
   (C)   Civic use groups.
      (1)   Parks and open areas. Uses focusing on natural areas consisting
mostly of open vegetation, passive or active outdoor recreation areas, or
community gardens, and having few structures. Parks and open areas shall
include the following: tot lot and playgrounds; mini-parks; plazas; squares;
greens; neighborhood parks; botanical gardens; nature preserves and recreation
trails; or any similar use.
      (2)   Utility, major. A large-scale utility such as a water or wastewater
treatment plant, water tower, electrical generation plant, or transmission
facility or any similar use.
      (3)   Utility, minor. All utility facilities not considered major,
including, but not limited to neighborhood-serving facilities such as pump
stations, telephone exchanges, lift stations, and stormwater detention
facilities, or any similar use.
   (D)   Commercial use groups.
      (1)   Agriculture. Characterized by uses that create or preserve areas
intended primarily for the raising of animals and crops, conservation, and the
secondary industries associated with agricultural  production. Agriculture
shall include the following: animal raising, including horses, hogs, cows,
sheep, goats, and swine, poultry, rabbits, and other small animals, apiculture,
aquaculture, dairying, personal or commercial animal breeding and development;
floriculture, horticulture, pasturage, row and field
crops, viticulture, tree or sod farm, silviculture; animal boarding, outdoor; 
livestock auction; milk processing plant; packing house for fruits or
vegetables; plant nursery; plant nursery with landscape supply; retail or
wholesale sales of agriculturally-related supplies and equipment; stable; or
any similar use.
      (2)   Indoor recreation. Amusement or recreational activities carried on
wholly within a building, including dance hall, theater, health club and
activities of a similar nature. This does not include an adult-oriented
business or amusement center.
      (3)   Manufacturing, limited. A facility conducting light manufacturing
operations within a fully-enclosed building, generally serviced by trucks no
longer than 24 feet in length. Limited manufacturing shall include the
following: bulk mailing service; clothing or textile manufacturing; manufacture
or assembly of equipment, instruments (including musical instruments),
appliances, precision items,  and electrical items; printing, publishing, and
lithography; production of artwork and toys; sign-making; building maintenance
service; exterminator; movie production facility; photo-finishing laboratory;
repair of scientific or professional instruments and electric motors; sheet
metal; welding, machine, tool repair shop or studio; woodworking, including
cabinet makers and furniture manufacturing; or any similar use.
      (4)   Office, general. A facility generally focusing on business,
government, professional or financial services. General office shall include
the following: advertising office; bank; business management consulting; data
processing; financial business such as lender, investment or brokerage house;
collection agency; real estate or insurance agent; professional service such as
lawyer, accountant, bookkeeper, engineer, or architect; sales office, travel
agency or any similar use.
      (5)   Office, medical. A medical facility in which a doctor, dentist,
psychiatrist, physician's assistant, nurse practitioner or similar medial
provider treats or counsels patients.
      (6)   Outdoor recreation. Any recreational facility where activity takes
place primarily outdoors, including miniature golf courses, batting cages,
swimming pool, driving range or a similar facility.
      (7)   Retail, general. A facility involved in the wholesale or retail
sale, lease, or rental of new or used products to through traffic as well as
the surrounding neighborhood. General retail shall include the selling, leasing
or renting of the following goods: antiques; art; art supplies; bicycles;
building supplies; cameras; carpet and floor coverings; crafts; clothing;
computers; dry goods; electronic equipment; fabric; furniture; garden supplies;
hardware; household products; jewelry; medical supplies; musical instruments;
music; pets; pet supplies; printed materials; sporting goods; or any similar
use. The retail sale of automobile parts shall be considered retail general
provided no on-site automobile service or repair is provided. This definition
does not include any adult entertainment establishment.
      (8)   Retail, neighborhood. A facility involved in the sale, lease, or
rental of new or used products primarily to local traffic in the surrounding
neighborhood. Neighborhood retail shall include the selling, leasing or renting
of the following goods: books; health and beauty products; photo finishing;
crafts; flowers; gifts or souvenirs; groceries; plants; picture frames;
produce; stationery; tobacco; videos or any similar use. Also includes
preparation and sale of baked goods, coffee, ice cream, fountain drinks,
confections and similar products whose preparation does not require
installation of an exhaust hood.
      (9)   Service, general. A facility involved in providing personal or
repair services to through traffic as well as the surrounding neighborhood.
General services shall include the following  personal services: animal
grooming; dance, martial arts, photographic, music studio or classroom;
photocopy, blueprint, quick-sign service; psychic or medium; security service;
taxidermist; catering service or any similar use. General services shall also
include the following repair services: bicycles; mopeds, canvas products;
clocks; computers; jewelry; musical instruments; office equipment; radios;
shoes; televisions; furniture; watches or any similar use. Also includes a
tailor, milliner, upholsterer or locksmith. This definition does not include
any adult entertainment establishment.
      (10)   Service, neighborhood. A facility involved in providing limited
personal services to local traffic in the surrounding neighborhood.
Neighborhood services shall include the following: personal care services such
as hair, nail, tanning, massage therapy; laundromat; dry cleaning and laundry
pickup station; pack and ship facility; or any similar use.
      (11)   Vehicle sales. A facility involved in providing direct sales,
renting or leasing of motor vehicles, light and medium trucks, tractor
trailers, recreational vehicles, earthmoving equipment; construction equipment;
farming equipment; and other consumer motor vehicles such as motorcycles and
boats, or any similar use.
      (12)   Vehicle service. A facility involved in providing limited service
to passenger vehicles and other small consumer vehicles. Such minor operations
are primarily provided while customers wait for their vehicles. Limited vehicle
service shall include the following: alignment shop; quick lubrication
facilities; brake service, battery sales and installation; outdoor car wash;
auto detailing and tire sales and mounting; or any similar use.
      (13)   Vehicle repair. A facility involved in providing repair services
to passenger vehicles, light and medium trucks, tractor trailers, recreational
vehicles, earthmoving equipment; construction equipment; farming equipment; and
other consumer motor vehicles such as motorcycles and boats,  or any similar
use.
      (14)   Warehouse and freight movement. A facility involved in the storage
or movement of goods for themselves or other firms. Goods are delivered to
other firms or the final consumer with little on-site sales activity to
customers. Warehouse and freight movement shall include the following: bulk
storage, including nonflammable liquids, feed and grain storage; cold storage
plants, including  frozen food lockers; household moving and general freight
storage; separate warehouse used by retail store such as furniture or appliance
store; bus barn; parcel services, mail order facility; stockpiling of sand,
gravel, or other aggregate materials; transfer and storage business where there
are no individual storage areas or where employees are the primary movers of
the goods to be stored or transferred; or any similar use.
   (E)   Industrial use groups.
      (1)   Manufacturing, general. A facility conducting manufacturing with
some operations conducted outside. General manufacturing shall include the
following: bulk mailing service; clothing or textile manufacturing; manufacture
or assembly of equipment, instruments (including musical instruments),
appliances, precision items, and electrical items; printing, publishing, and
lithography; production of artwork and toys; sign-making; building maintenance
service; exterminator; movie production facility; laundry or dry cleaning
plant; photo-finishing laboratory; repair of scientific or professional
instruments and electric motors; sheet metal; welding, machine, tool repair
shop or studio; woodworking, including cabinet makers and furniture
manufacturing; or any similar use.
      (2)   Manufacturing, heavy. A facility conducting assembly heavy
manufacturing with operation conducted indoors and outdoors. Heavy
manufacturing shall include the following: heavy factory production; industrial
yards; any use that is potentially dangerous, noxious or offensive to
neighboring uses or those who pass on public ways by reason of smoke, odor,
noise, glare, fumes, gas, vibration, threat of fire or explosion, emission of
particulate matter, interference with radio, television reception, radiation or
any other likely cause; animal processing, packing, treating, and storage;
livestock or poultry slaughtering; citrus concentrate plant; processing of food
and related products; production of chemical, rubber, leather, clay, bone,
paper, pulp, plastic, stone, or glass materials or products, production or
fabrication of metals or metal products including enameling and galvanizing,
sawmill; bulk storage of flammable liquids; commercial feed lot; concrete
batching and asphalt processing and manufacture; wrecking, junk or salvage
yard; bottling plant; or any similar use.
      (3)   Research and development. A facility focused primarily on the
research and development of new products. Research and development shall
include: laboratories, offices, and other facilities used for research and
development by or for any individual, organization, or concern, whether public
or private; prototype production facilities that manufacture a limited amount
of a product in order to fully investigate the merits of such a product; pilot
plants used to test manufacturing processes planned for use in production
elsewhere; production facilities and operations with a high degree of
scientific input; facilities and operations in which the input of science,
technology, research, and other forms of concepts or ideas constitute a major
element of the value added by manufacture per unit of product.
      (4)   Waste service. A facility that generally receives solid or liquid
wastes from others for transfer to another location, collects sanitary waste or
manufactures a product from the composting of organic material. Waste-related
service shall include the following: animal waste processing; landfill,
incinerator; manufacture and production of goods from composting organic
material; outdoor recycle processing center; outdoor storage of recyclable
material, including construction material; transfer station; or any similar
use.
   (F)   Uses not specifically listed.
      (1)   Any use not specifically listed in this chapter is expressly
prohibited, unless the Planning Director determines in accordance with §
156.715, that the use is similar to a permitted individual use or permitted
group of uses as listed in this chapter. Where such similar permitted
individual use or permitted group of uses is subject to a use standard 
contained in this chapter or conditional use or special use review, the
proposed use shall also be subject to such standard or approval. The Planning
Director shall not amend this chapter by adding to or eliminating any use
standard for the proposed use.
      (2)   Where a use not listed is found by the Planning Director not to be
similar to any other permitted individual use or permitted group of uses, the
use shall be permitted only following a text amendment in accordance with §
156.703. The decision of the Planning Director may not be appealed to the Board
of Adjustment.
      (3)   When considering the appropriate districts for a use not listed in
the Permitted Land Use Table, the district intent statements (see §
156.203) shall be taken into consideration.
      (4)   Determination of an appropriate group of uses for a proposed use
not currently listed shall be made by applying the following criteria:
         (a)   The actual or projected characteristics of the activity in
relationship to the stated characteristics of each use category;
         (b)   The relative amount of site area or floor space and equipment
devoted to the activity;
         (c)   Relative amounts of sales from each activity;
         (d)   The customer type for each activity;
         (e)   The relative number of employees in each activity;
         (f)   Hours of operation;
         (g)   Building and site arrangement;
         (h)   Types of vehicles used and their parking requirements;
         (i)   The relative number of vehicle trips generated;
         (j)   Signs;
         (k)   How the use is advertised;
         (l)   The likely impact on surrounding properties; and
         (m)   Whether the activity is likely to be found independent of the
other activities on the site.
   (G)   Developments with multiple principal uses.
      (1)   Except as set forth in §
156.301, no more than 1 principal building or use may be erected on a single
lot of record.
      (2)   When all principal uses of a development fall within 1 use
category, the entire development shall be assigned to that use category.
      (3)   When the principal uses of a development fall within different
group of uses or no group of uses, each principal use shall be classified in
the applicable group of uses or treated as an individual use and each use shall
be subject to all applicable regulations for that group of uses or individual
use.
      (4)   (a)   A development comprised of uses regulated by separate rows on
the Permitted Land Use Table shall be reviewed using the most restrictive
process from among the proposed uses.
         (b)   If a proposed development includes a gas station, library and
restaurant, including outparcels, and 1 of those uses is only permitted as a
special use in the district, then the entire development requires special use
review.
      (5)   (a)   Where a use requiring approval as a conditional use or a
special use lies on a separate legal parcel, only the building containing the
use and its separate parcel shall be subject to review, not the entire project.
However, where the separate legal parcel is an outparcel, the application shall
describe the relationship of the outparcel to the remaining site.
         (b)   For example, where a vehicle repair shop in a B-3 district
(subject to special use review) is an outparcel within a larger retail
development, the special use shall review the outparcel only, not the entire
development. However, where a special use is proposed in a building that
contains a variety of other uses, the entire building and its associated parcel
(s) of land shall require special use review.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.301  COMPLEXES.
   Nonresidential, townhouse and apartment complexes may be established on a
single unified parcel, provided that the following requirements are met.
   (A)   Defined. A group of 2 or more office, industrial, commercial,
multifamily and/or other operations on an unsubdivided parcel, operating under
1 name or presenting other elements of a unified image of identity to the
public.
   (B)   General. Complexes shall meet all applicable development standards as
set forth in §§
156.200 through
156.204, §§
156.400 through
156.405. Applicants shall comply with all other provisions in this chapter and
all other applicable laws.
   (C)   Uses. Uses within complexes shall be limited to those permitted within
the zoning district in which the development is located (see §
156.202, Permitted Land Use Table).
   (D)   Intensity. The overall intensity of the land use shall be no higher,
and the standard of development no lower, than that permitted in the district
in which the project is located.
   (E)   Setbacks. The distance of every building from every property line
shall meet the relative setback requirements of the district in which the
development is located (the rear of a building must meet rear yard
requirements, the front of the building must meet street yard requirements, the
side of the building must meet side yard requirements). In no case, however,
shall any portion of a building be located closer to a public street than the
required minimum street yard setback of the zoning district.
   (F)   Height. The building heights shall not exceed the height limits
permitted in the district in which the development is located.
   (G)   Building separation. The minimum spacing between buildings in a
complex shall be 20 feet, with an additional 10 feet provided between buildings
for every story over 2.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.302  RESIDENTIAL USE STANDARDS.
   The following standards shall apply to all permitted uses, conditional uses
and special uses, as set forth in the Permitted Land Use Table (see §
156.202). Additional design considerations may be outlined in the Kenly General
Design Guidelines.
   (A)   Zero lot line.
      (1)   A single side yard shall be provided comprising the equivalent of 2
side yards of a conventional detached house. This reduction shall not be
allowed on the street yard or to the side yard adjacent to lots that are not
part of the zero lot line project.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-59.png]
      (2)   An easement between the 2 property owners to allow for maintenance
or repair of the house shall be required when the roof overhang or side wall of
the house are within 4 feet of the adjacent property line (no roof overhang
shall be permitted to extend across the property line). The easement on the
adjacent property must provide at least 5 feet of unobstructed space. The
easement shall be recorded on the subdivision plat.
      (3)   If the side wall of the house is on the property line, or within 3
feet of the property line, windows or other openings that allow for visibility
into the side yard of the adjacent lot shall not be allowed. Windows that do
not allow visibility into the side yard of the adjacent lot, such as a
clerestory window or a translucent window, shall be allowed.
   (B)   Alley-loaded house. An alley shall be provided to the rear of all
alley-loaded houses. All vehicular access shall take place from the alley. No
parking shall be permitted in the required street yard.
   (C)   Townhouse.
      (1)   Side yards are not required for interior townhouses, but street and
rear yards shall be provided for all townhouses, and building separation
requirements shall be maintained for all townhouse structures.
      (2)   All townhouse garages and parking areas shall be located to the
rear of the building. No parking shall be permitted in the required street
yard.
      (3)   The maximum number of units allowed in a single building is 8.
      (4)   The first floor shall be located a minimum of 2 feet and a maximum
of 3 feet above grade.
      (5)   For townhouse complexes see §
156.301 for additional requirements.
   (D)   Apartments.
      (1)   No parking space shall be located in a required yard, except for
the rear yard.
      (2)   No off-street parking space shall be located closer than 10 feet to
any residential building wall.
      (3)   For developments of 40 or more dwelling units, a divided ingress-
egress driveway with a landscaped median for all entrances from public streets
shall be provided for all developments.
      (4)   Sidewalks shall be constructed within the interior of the
development to link residential buildings with other destinations such as, but
not limited to: parking, adjoining streets, mailboxes, trash disposal,
adjoining sidewalks or greenways and on-site amenities such as recreation
areas.
      (5)   For apartment complexes see §
156.301 for additional requirements.
   (E)   Upper-story residential. An upper-story residential unit is allowed on
the upper floors of a permitted civic or commercial use as set forth in
Permitted Land Use Table (see §
156.202) and shall adhere to all dimensional standards of the permitted civic
or commercial use.
   (F)   Manufactured home. All manufactured homes shall meet or exceed the
following criteria:
      (1)   The manufactured home shall be set up and tied down in accordance
with the standards set by the North Carolina Department of Insurance;
      (2)   The manufactured home shall have a length not exceeding 4 times its
width, with length measured along the longest axis and width measured at the
narrowest part of the other axis;
      (3)   The manufactured home shall have a minimum of 960 square feet of
enclosed and heated living area per dwelling area;
      (4)   Screening of the foundation area shall be by a continuous,
permanent masonry foundation or masonry curtain wall which is in accordance
with NC Building Code regulations, unbroken except for required ventilation and
access, and which shall be installed under the perimeter of the manufactured
home;
      (5)   Stairs, porches, entrance platforms, ramps, and other means of
entrance and exit to and from the manufactured home shall be installed or
constructed in accordance with the standards set by the North Carolina Building
Code, free standing or attached firmly to the primary structure and anchored
securely to the ground;
      (6)   The exterior siding shall consist predominantly of vinyl or
aluminum horizontal siding (whose reflectivity does not exceed that of gloss
white paint), wood, or hardboard, comparable in composition, appearance and
durability to the exterior siding commonly used in standard residential
construction;
      (7)   The moving hitch, wheels and axles, and transporting lights shall
be have been removed;
      (8)   At least 2 off-street parking spaces shall be provided;
      (9)   The lot shall be cleared of all excess growth and graded to provide
adequate drainage;
      (10)   All areas not used for parking, manufactured homes, or required
porches, shall be grassed or otherwise suitably landscaped to prevent erosion;
and
      (11)   All standards must be met prior to issuance of a certificate of
occupancy.
   (G)   Manufactured home parks.
      (1)   General requirements.
         (a)   Manufactured homes located within manufactured home parks shall
be in accordance with the requirements of §
156.302 above.
         (b)   All manufactured home parks shall be a minimum of 3 acres in
size.
         (c)   No living compartment or structure, other than a Florida Room or
other prefabricated structure, specifically designed for manufactured home use
or extension, shall be added to any manufactured home. Porches covered with a
roof and open on 3 sides may be permitted if yard space requirements of this
chapter are not violated, and if such addition complies with the North Carolina
Building Code.
         (d)   Up to 2 manufactured home park identification signs may be
utilized, but the sum of the areas of 1 side of these signs shall not exceed 40
square feet. Only external, non-flashing lighting shall be used for
illumination. The top portion of any sign shall not exceed 12 feet in height.
         (e)   Within a manufactured home park, 1 manufactured home may be used
as an administrative office.
      (2)   Streets and parking.
         (a)   Each manufactured home shall abut upon an improved street or
driveway, which shall have unobstructed access to a town or state maintained
road.
         (b)   Streets shall have a minimum paved width of 20 feet. In
addition, every such street shall lie within a cleared right-of-way having a
minimum width of 40 feet.
         (c)   Maintenance of such streets shall be provided by the owner or
operator of the park.
         (d)   Permanent dead-end streets or cul-de-sacs shall not exceed 500
feet in length and shall be provided with a turnaround of at least 70 feet in
diameter.
         (e)   Streets or drives within the manufactured home park shall
intersect as nearly as possible at right angles, and no street shall intersect
at less than 75 degrees. Where a street intersects a public street or road, the
design standards of the North Carolina Highway Commission shall apply.
         (f)   New street names or manufactured home park names shall not
duplicate nor be similar to existing street names or manufactured home park
names in the area.
         (g)   A minimum of 2 paved parking spaces shall be provided adjacent
to each manufactured home space, but shall not be located within any public
right-of-way or within any street in the park.
         (h)   No manufactured home lots shall be located within the 100-year
floodway area, as shown on the latest National Flood Insurance Program map for
the town.
      (3)   Lot size and lot width requirements.
         (a)   Lots served by community or public water and sewer shall have a
minimum lot size of 6,000 square feet and have a minimum lot width of 50 feet
at the front building line. The maximum coverage of the lot by the unit and any
accessory structures shall not exceed 40% of the lot area.
         (b)   Lots served by individual septic tank and individual well shall
have a minimum lot size of 25,000 square feet and have a minimum lot width of
75 feet at the front building line. The maximum coverage of the lot by the unit
and any accessory structures shall not exceed 40% of the lot area.
         (c)   Lots served by community or public water and individual septic
tank or public sewer and individual well shall have a minimum lot size of
15,000 square feet and have a minimum lot width of 75 feet at the front
building line. The maximum coverage of the lot by the unit shall not exceed 40%
of the lot area.
      (4)   Project boundary buffer. A Class C buffer shall be provided (see §
156.402) along all project boundaries of a manufactured home park.
      (5)   Yard requirements.
         (a)   The following yard requirements shall pertain to every
manufactured home in the manufactured home park:
            1.   Minimum depth of street yard, measured from front lot line: 20
feet.
            2.   Minimum width of side yard, measured from side lot line:
               a.   Ten feet.
               b.   Six feet, if served by public water and sewer.
         (b)   Minimum depth of rear yard, measured from rear lot line: 20
feet.
         (c)   Detached garages and accessory buildings may be erected on
manufactured home lots as permitted in §
156.305.
      (6)   Utility requirements.
         (a)   Water. An accessible, adequate, safe supply of water shall be
provided in each manufactured home park. When a municipal water supply is not
available, a community water supply shall be developed and its supply used
exclusively in accordance with the standards of the Sanitary Engineering
Division of the North Carolina Division of Health Services and the County
Health Department.
         (b)   Sewer. Adequate and safe sewage disposal facilities shall be
provided in all manufactured home parks. Collection systems and sewage
treatment complying with the requirements of the North Carolina Department of
Natural Resources and Community Development and the County Health Department
shall be provided.
         (c)   Solid waste.
            1.   The storage, collection, and disposal of solid waste in the
manufactured home park shall be so constructed as to create no health hazards,
rodent harborage, insect breeding area, accident or fire hazard, or pollution,
and shall be maintained at least 100 feet from a well site.
            2.   All solid waste containing garbage shall be stored in a
standard fly-tight, watertight, rodent-proof container, which shall be located
at each manufactured home space, or an approved bulk container site. The
manufactured home park management shall be responsible for the proper storage,
collection, and disposal of solid waste as specified by the County Health
Department.
            3.   Grounds, buildings, and structures shall be maintained free of
insect and rodent harborage and infestation.
            4.   No junked or abandoned vehicles shall be allowed in the park.
      (7)   Street lights. All streets in the manufactured home park shall be
adequately illuminated. The minimum size street light shall be a 175-watt
mercury vapor, approximately 7000 lumen class or its equivalent, spaced at
intervals of not more than 400 feet. Street lights shall be at each
intersection.
      (8)   Telephone and power lines. All telephone lines and power lines are
to be located underground. Utility easements shall not be less than 10 feet in
width.
      (9)   Recreation areas and facilities.
         (a)   Adequate and suitable recreation areas to serve the anticipated
population shall be provided and shall consist of at least 10,000 square feet
for each 25 manufactured home lots. All manufactured home parks having 5 or
more lots shall have a minimum size recreational area of 10,000 square feet.
Manufactured home parks having more than 25 manufactured home lots shall
provide 400 square feet of recreation space per lot in excess of 25.
         (b)   No recreational facilities shall be placed in an area utilized
for septic tank filter fields.
      (10)   Mobile home parks with prior approval. All mobile home parks
approved for development by the town, county, or state prior to May 4, 1987 are
hereby granted special use status under the terms of §
156.109, and the number of units contained therein may be maintained and
replaced with other units, provided that:
         (a)   A copy of the mobile home park plan bearing proof of approval by
the responsible governmental agency shall be filed in the Planning Department
no later than 90 days after the approval of this revision.
         (b)   All replacement units shall obtain an approved zoning compliance
permit and inspection  by the Town Inspections Department prior to occupancy.
         (c)   All replacement units shall meet the requirements of §
156.302 above.
         (d)   No replacement unit may increase any nonconforming standard of
the existing unit, and in no case may any replacement unit be located nearer
than 10 feet to a public street right-of-way or periphery property line.
         (e)   Any expansion of a mobile home park shall be in full accordance
with the current standards of this chapter.
         (f)   If a mobile home park which does not conform to current
standards has been discontinued, or if 80% of the number of spaces are vacated
for a period of 180 days, the mobile home park shall not be reestablished, and
all future use of the land therein shall comply fully with the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.303  CIVIC USE STANDARDS.
   The following standards shall apply to all permitted uses, conditional uses
and special uses, as set forth in the Permitted Land Use Table (see §
156.202). Additional design considerations may be outlined in the Kenly General
Design Guidelines.
   (A)   Adult care home.
      (1)   In the R-E District, an adult care home shall provide at least 150
square feet of gross floor area per occupant and 4,000 square feet of lot area
per occupant.
      (2)   In the R-11 District, an adult care home shall provide at least 150
square feet of gross floor area per occupant and 2,000 square feet of lot area
per occupant.
      (3)   In the R-6 District, an adult care home shall provide least 150
square feet of gross floor area per occupant and 1,200 square feet of lot area
per occupant.
   (B)   Boarding house.
      (1)   Boarding houses shall meet the standards of §§
151.040 through
151.043, of the Town Code of Ordinances.
      (2)   Each boarding house shall have a full-time resident manager.
      (3)   Fifteen square feet of common living area other than kitchens,
hallways and bathrooms shall be provided per occupant.
      (4)   A boarding house shall not be located within 1,000 feet, as
measured in any direction from property line to property line, of another
boarding house.
   (C)   Child care home. Where abutting a residential use, visual buffers
shall be provided so as to shield all parking areas, play areas and outdoor
activity from abutting property. Such buffer shall consist of trees or other
vegetation of such height and depths as determined by the Board of Adjustment
or an appropriate fence or wall or combination thereof.
   (D)   Child care center.
      (1)   An off-street passenger drop-off and passenger loading area shall
be provided for any child care center. Such area shall not be located in the
street yard.
      (2)   Where abutting a residential use, visual buffers shall be provided
so as to shield all parking areas, play areas and outdoor activity from
abutting property. Such buffer shall consist of trees or other vegetation of
such height and depths as determined by the Board of Adjustment or an
appropriate fence or wall or combination thereof.
   (E)   Place of worship.
      (1)   Following the initial approval of places of worship through the
special use permit process (see §
156.711), expansions of up to 20% of the area originally approved through the
special use permit process may be approved administratively.
      (2)   Administrative approvals of expansions of places of worship shall
not waive any conditions of approval of the special use permit.
      (3)   Accessory uses standards for a place of worship are set forth in §
156.305.
   (F)   Public safety facility.
      (1)   Following the initial approval of a public safety facility through
the special use permit process (see §
156.711), expansions of up to 35% of the area originally approved through the
special use permit process may be approved administratively, unless such
administrative approval is explicitly prohibited as a condition of the special
use permit.
      (2)   Administrative approvals of expansions of public safety facilities
shall not waive any conditions of approval of the special use permit.
   (G)   School (public or private).
      (1)   Following the initial approval of a school through the special use
permit process (see §
156.711), expansions of up to 20% of the area originally approved through the
special use permit process may be approved administratively.
      (2)   Administrative approvals of expansions of schools shall not waive
any conditions of approval of the special use permit.
   (H)   Wireless telecommunication facility. Specific standards for wireless
telecommunication facilities are set forth in §
156.307.
   (I)   Keeping of livestock. Livestock (recreational).
      (1)   Keeping of livestock in zoning districts as referenced in §
156.202, Permitted Land Use Table, shall be applicable only to property within 
the corporate  limits of the Town of Kenly. The keeping  of livestock within
the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Town of Kenly shall not be governed by
the requirements of this section.
      (2)   For purposes of this section LIVESTOCK shall include: any species
of cattle or bovines,  horses, or other equines, ponies, donkeys, mules, or any
other animal weighing more than 200 pounds.  LIVESTOCK shall not include any
species of hog, pig, swine or other similar animal, nor shall LIVESTOCK include
any species of domesticated canine or feline.
      (3)   Any existing situations of livestock being kept within the
corporate limits of the Town of Kenly prior to the effective date (June 8,
2010) of this section shall be allowed to continue as non-conforming use as
provided in §
156.719 of this code. Should any pre-exiting livestock situation cease by
removal of structure or fence for more than 6 months (180 days), such use shall
no longer be allowed.
      (4)   Livestock shall be kept only on property consisting of a minimum of
1 contiguous acre with a primary residence located thereon. Livestock shall be
maintained or housed in the rear yard only.
      (5)   A maximum of 2 livestock per contiguous acre may be kept. The
keeping of greater than 6 livestock on any single parcel shall be presumed to
be a commercial animal boarding and/or breeding operation, which shall be
governed by the applicable sections of this code.
      (6)   No animal shall be maintained, housed, kept, boarded, or otherwise
allowed to remain within 100 feet of any dwelling or structure used for human
habitation  by any entity other than the owner and immediate family of the
owner of the animal deemed livestock for the purposes of this section.
      (7)   A structure and enclosure approved by the Building Inspector and
Zoning Administrator shall be provided to adequately accommodate all livestock
kept, maintained or housed on the property. Any structure or enclosure shall
meet the requirements prescribed within this code and the N .C. Building Codes.
This approval must be granted prior to the keeping of any animal deemed
livestock as per this section within said structure.
      (8)   All waste should be collected and properly disposed of so as not to
constitute a nuisance for adjoining property owners and to protect public
health. Fly control measures shall be used to prevent any nuisance to adjoining
property owners.
      (9)   Additional considerations or conditions may apply as deemed
necessary by the Planning Board and/or Board of Commissioners in the case of a
required special use review.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.304  COMMERCIAL USE STANDARDS.
   The following standards shall apply to all permitted uses, conditional uses
and special uses, as set forth in the Permitted Land Use Table (see §
156.202). Additional design considerations may be outlined in the Kenly General
Design Guidelines.
   (A)   Adult-oriented business.
      (1)   No such use shall be located within 1,000 feet of a church,
primary, elementary or secondary school, residence or residentially zoned
property, any establishment serving on-premises beverages requiring an ABC
license, or any other adult-oriented business.
      (2)   There shall be no more than 1 such use on the same property or in
the same building or structure.
      (3)   Except for permanent signage as permitted in §
156.403, there shall be no advertisement, promotional materials, displays, or
temporary signs visible to the public from public rights-of-way.
   (B)   Bed and breakfast.
      (1)   An owner shall reside on site.
      (2)   There shall be no substantial modifications to the exterior
appearance of the structure; however, fire escapes, handicapped entrances and
other features may be added to protect public safety.
      (3)   Meals shall be served on the premises only for guests and
employees. Rooms may not be equipped with cooking facilities.
      (4)   Parking shall not be allowed in any street yard.
   (C)   Contractor's office.
      (1)   Except in the I-1 and I-2 districts, all activity shall be
conducted entirely within a fully-enclosed building. The temporary loading and
off-loading of vehicles shall be permitted outside.
      (2)   Outdoor storage and display may be allowed subject to Planning
Board approval (see §
156.405).
      (3)   Combustible materials and chemicals shall be stored in compliance
with all local, state, and federal regulations.
   (D)   Hotel, motel.
      (1)   All hotel and motel buildings and parking shall be located at least
50 feet from any property line adjoining a residential district or use.
      (2)   Any accessory commercial activities such as restaurants shall not
be located along the side of the property adjacent to a residential district or
use.
      (3)   Any outdoor recreation facilities, such as swimming pools, shall
not be located along the side of the property adjacent to a residential
district or use. If the outdoor recreation facility is a swimming pool, it
shall meet the standards of §
156.305.
   (E)   Gas station with convenience retail.
      (1)   General standards.
         (a)   Vehicle repair or service shall not be permitted.
         (b)   The primary building, including any attached canopy, shall
conform to all setback requirements.
         (c)   Gasoline pumps, tanks and pump islands shall be located no
closer than 20 feet to any side or rear property line or right-of-way.
         (d)   No sign of any type or any gasoline pump or tank shall be
located within 20 feet of a residential use.
         (e)   A Class C buffer (see §
156.402) shall be established along any side of the property where the gas
station abuts a residential use, provided such buffer shall not restrict clear
sight at any intersection or driveway.
         (f)   Freestanding vents shall not be permitted.
         (g)   Outdoor storage and display may allowed subject to Planning
Board approval (see §
156.405).
      (2)   Fuel canopies.
         (a)   The canopy shall be located no closer than 15 feet to any side
or rear property line or right-of-way.
         (b)   The canopy shall not exceed the height of the principal
building, but in no case shall the canopy height exceed 20 feet.
      (3)   Single-bay automatic car wash. An accessory single-bay automatic
(not self-service) car wash completely enclosed except for openings necessary
to allow entry and exit of vehicles shall be permitted subject to the
following:
         (a)   The car wash structure shall be located no closer than 20 feet
to any side or rear property line or right-of-way;
         (b)   The car wash structure shall not exceed a height of 20 feet or
exceed an overall building dimension of 25 feet in width and 50 feet in length;
         (c)   The car wash structure shall be located behind the rear building
line of the principal building; and
         (d)   All car wash structures shall meet all applicable yard
requirements.
   (F)   Manufacturing, limited.
      (1)   All manufacturing activity shall be conducted entirely within a
fully-enclosed building.
      (2)   Outdoor storage and display may be allowed subject to Planning
Board approval (see §
156.405).
      (3)   Uses shall not emit smoke, odor or objectionable waste materials.
      (4)   No vibration shall be produced that is transmitted through the
ground (and is discernible without the aid of instruments) at or beyond the lot
line.
      (5)   No direct glare from high temperature processes such as combustion
or welding visible from the street shall be permitted.
   (G)   Recreational club, private.  A recreational club shall be located on a
parcel of land not less than 3 acres in size.
   (H)   Retail, neighborhood or general. All activity shall be conducted
entirely within a fully-enclosed building, except for the following:
      (1)   Outdoor storage and display may be allowed subject to Planning
Board approval (see §
156.405).
      (2)   Outdoor seating and dining may be allowed subject to Planning Board
approval (see §
156.305).
      (3)   For shopping centers, see §
156.301 for additional requirements.
   (I)   Self-storage facility.
      (1)   All storage shall be contained within a fully-enclosed building.
However, outdoor storage of boats, travel trailers, recreational vehicles, and
other noncommercial occasional use vehicles may be allowed subject to Planning
Board approval (see §
156.405).
      (2)   A Class C buffer (see §
156.402) shall be established along any side of the property where the self-
storage facility abuts or is across the street from a residential use.
      (3)   Where the end wall of the self-storage facility is visible from a
public right-of-way, the wall shall be buffered by a hedge that has a mature
height of at least 4 feet.
      (4)   The following activities shall be prohibited on the premises:
         (a)   Commercial, wholesale or retail sales, flea markets or peddling,
or miscellaneous or garage sales. However, once a month, the management of the
self-storage facility may conduct a one-day auction or sale of abandoned or
stored materials to settle unpaid storage bills in accordance with State of
North Carolina regulations;
         (b)   Servicing, repair, or fabrication or motor vehicles, boats,
trailers, lawn mowers, appliances, or other similar equipment;
         (c)   Operation of a transfer-and-storage business;
         (d)   Operation of power tools, spray painting equipment, table saws,
lathes, compressors, welding equipment, kilns, or other similar equipment
except when needed for maintenance of the use;
         (e)   Any activity that is noxious or offensive because of odors,
dust, noise, fumes, or vibrations;
         (f)   Storage of hazardous chemicals, flammable liquids, or
combustible and explosive materials; and
         (g)   Habitation of storage units by humans or animals.
   (J)   Service, neighborhood or general. All activity shall be conducted
entirely within a fully-enclosed building, except for the following:
      (1)   Outdoor storage and display may allowed subject to Planning Board
approval (see §
156.405);
      (2)   Outdoor seating and dining may be allowed subject to Planning Board
approval (see §
156.305); or
      (3)   For shopping centers. See §
156.301 for additional requirements.
   (K)   Vehicle repair.
      (1)   No vehicle sales shall be permitted.
      (2)   A Class C buffer (see §
156.402) shall be established along any side of the property adjacent to a
residential use.
      (3)   If the facility has more than 1 service bay, the additional service
bay doors shall not be oriented toward any residential use, or the service bays
shall be screened from view from adjacent property using landscaping.
      (4)   All repair or service operations, excluding washing, shall be
conducted entirely within a fully- enclosed building. The term fully-enclosed
building shall not be construed to limit open bay doors during hours of
operation.
      (5)   Operable vehicles may be parked on-site during business hours. All
vehicle parking shall be accomplished on the site, and in no case shall a
parked vehicle encroach into the right-of-way.
      (6)   The outdoor overnight storage of vehicles may be allowed subject to
Planning Board approval (see §156.405).
      (7)   There shall be no dismantling of vehicles for salvage.
      (8)   The storage of impounded vehicles shall not be permitted.
   (L)   Vehicle sales.
      (1)   A Class C buffer (see §
156.402) shall be established along any side of the property adjacent to a
residential use.
      (2)   Operable vehicles may be parked on-site during business hours. All
vehicle parking shall be accomplished on the site, and in no case shall a
parked vehicle encroach into the right-of-way.
      (3)   The outdoor overnight storage of vehicles under repair may be
allowed subject to Planning Board approval (see §
156.405).
      (4)   Vehicle sales displayed for rental or sale visible from the public
right-of-way shall provide a parking buffer as set forth in §
156.402.
   (M)   Vehicle service.
      (1)   A Class C buffer (see §
156.402) shall be established along any side of the property adjacent to a
residential use.
      (2)   If the facility has more than 1 service bay, the additional service
bay doors shall not be oriented toward the right-of-way or a residential use,
or the service bays shall be screened from view from the right-of-way or
adjacent property using landscaping.
      (3)   All repair or service operations, excluding washing, shall be
conducted entirely within a fully-enclosed building. The term fully-enclosed
building shall not be construed to limit open bay doors during hours of
operation.
      (4)   Operable vehicles may be parked on-site during business hours. All
vehicle parking shall be accomplished on the site, and in no case shall a
parked vehicle encroach into the right-of-way.
      (5)   The outdoor overnight storage of vehicles may be allowed subject to
Planning Board approval (see §
156.405).
      (6)   There shall be no dismantling of vehicles for salvage.
      (7)   The storage of impounded vehicles shall not be permitted.
   (N)   Veterinarian, animal hospital.
      (1)   Outdoor runs may be permitted subject to Board of Adjustment
approval (see §
156.710).
      (2)   All animal boarding shall occur indoors. All pens, kennels and runs
shall be located within an enclosed structure.
   (O)   Internet sweepstakes/gaming facilities.
      (1)   No facility shall be located any closer than 2,000 feet from any
other like facility,  and no closer than 1,000 feet of a residential dwelling,
child daycare, school, pre-school or church. For purposes of this section, the
distance shall be measured in a straight line from the closest point of the
building housing the internet sweepstakes/gaming establishment and another like
establishment or any of the other aforementioned uses.
      (2)   There shall be no more than 1 electronic gaming operations
establishment on the same lot or property or in the same building, structure or
portion thereof and no other principal or accessory use may occupy the same
building or structure or portion thereof as an electronic gaming operations
establishment.
      (3)   No screens, curtains, blinds, partitions or other obstruction shall
be placed between the entrance to the room where electronic gaming operations
occur and the rear wall of such room so that a clear view of the interior may
not be had from the entrance to the room.
      (4)   On premises alcohol sales and consumption shall be prohibited.
      (5)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be permitted within any
such facility.
      (6)   The number of gaming machines shall be calculated at 1 machine/50
square feet of gross floor area, not including restrooms, storage closets,
mechanical rooms, and unheated uninhabitable space, to a maximum of 30 machines
for any 1 establishment.
      (7)   Off-street parking shall be required at 1 space per internet/gaming
terminals.
      (8)   Establishments shall not operate between the hours of 11:00 p.m.
and 8:00 a.m. any day of the week.
      (9)   Facilities may be subject to additional conditions as deemed
necessary by the governing boards of the Town of Kenly as part of the special
use approval process.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.305  ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND USES.
   (A)   General. Accessory structures and uses shall be consistent with all
standards in the district for the principal use, except as expressly set forth
below. Additional design considerations may be outlined in the Kenly General
Design Guidelines.
      (1)   Accessory structures and uses shall be accessory and clearly
incidental and subordinate to a permitted principal use. An accessory use shall
only be allowed when a principal use exists.
      (2)   Accessory structures and uses shall be located on the same lot as
the permitted use or structure, or on a contiguous lot in the same ownership.
      (3)   Accessory structures and uses shall not involve operations or
structures not in keeping with the character of the primary use or principal
structure served.
      (4)   Accessory structures and uses shall not be of a nature likely to
attract visitors in larger numbers than would normally be expected, where
applicable.
      (5)   An accessory use shall contribute to the comfort, convenience or
necessity of occupants of the primary use served.
      (6)   An accessory use shall be located within the same district as the
principal use.
      (7)   Tractor trailers are prohibited as storage buildings or structures
except as permitted on an active construction site.
   (B)   Accessory structures. Accessory structures, not including accessory
dwelling units (see division (C)(1) below) shall be subject to the following
requirements:
      (1)   Zoning permit required. It shall be unlawful to begin moving,
constructing, altering, or repairing, except ordinary repairs, of an accessory
structure, until the Planning Department has issued a zoning permit for such
work (see §
156.709).
      (2)   Setbacks.
         (a)   No accessory structure shall be located closer than 10 feet to
any other building or manufactured home.
         (b)   No accessory structure shall extend in front of the rear line of
the principal structure,  except in the B-1 District, where the Board of
Adjustment may approve a conditional use permit for an accessory use or
structure to be placed in any yard other than the rear yard.
         (c)   No accessory structure may extend within 5 feet of any lot line
in R-6 and R-11 zoning districts, and within 10 feet in all other zoning
districts. No accessory structure shall be located within 20 feet of any street
right-of-way.
      (3)   Height. The height of an accessory structure shall not exceed the
height of the principal structure, unless approved as a conditional use by the
Board of Adjustment, as provided in §
156.710.
      (4)   Number. No more than one accessory structure shall be permitted on
the same lot as any primary  structure in R-6, R-8, and R-10 residential
districts, and no more than 2 accessory structures shall be permitted on the
same lot as any primary structure in all other zoning districts.
   (C)   Accessory uses in residential districts.
      (1)   Accessory dwelling units. One accessory dwelling shall be permitted
as a conditional use by the Board of Adjustment (see §
156.710) subject to their approval and the following requirements:
         (a)   The living area of the accessory dwelling shall not exceed the
living area of the principal structure. In no case shall the total floor area
of the accessory dwelling unit exceed 600 square feet.
         (b)   The accessory dwelling shall not have a separate electrical
meter.
         (c)   The owner of the property shall occupy either the primary
structure or the accessory dwelling.
         (d)   The principal dwelling and accessory dwelling unit together
shall not exceed the maximum building coverage and impervious surface
requirements for the district.
         (e)   All principal structure setbacks and yard requirements shall be
met.
         (f)   One additional parking space on the same premises shall be
required for the accessory dwelling unit.
         (g)   A subdivision with accessory dwelling units shall not exceed the
maximum district density requirements, counting all principal dwelling units
and any accessory dwelling units.
         (h)   An accessory dwelling shall either be located within the
principal structure; or meet the following standards:
            1.   The accessory dwelling shall be located on the same lot as the
principal structure;
            2.   The accessory dwelling shall be separated by at least 10 feet
from the principal structure;
            3.   The accessory dwelling shall be located in the rear or side
yard of the principal structure. The rear and side setback shall be equal to
those of all accessory structures;
            4.   Total building coverage and impervious surface area shall not
exceed that permitted in the district;
            5.   The height of a principal structure shall not be exceeded by
any accessory dwelling; and
            6.   The accessory dwelling unit shall be architecturally
consistent with the principal structure.
      (2)   Home occupations.
         (a)   Prohibited home occupations. The following uses are not
permitted as home occupations:
            1.   Vehicle and/or body and fender repair;
            2.   Outdoor repair;
            3.   Commercial nursery or truck farming;
            4.   Food handling, processing or packing, other than services that
utilize standard home kitchen equipment;
            5.   Medical or dental lab;
            6.   Restaurant;
            7.   Sale or repair of firearms;
            8.   Bulk storage of flammable liquids;
            9.   Funeral homes and mortuaries; and
            10.   Animal hospitals and kennels.
         (b)   Class A. The intent of a Class A home occupation is to permit
very limited activities in a  residential dwelling, provided such activities do
not impact or detract from the residential character of the neighborhood. A
Class A home occupation shall be deemed an accessory use and no further
approval shall be required, provided the use meets the standards of this
chapter.
            1.   The use of the dwelling unit for Class A home occupation shall
be clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by
its occupants, and shall under no circumstances change the residential
character of the structure.
            2.   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the
building or premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of a home
occupation.
            3.   No business, storage or warehousing of material, supplies or
equipment shall be permitted outside of the primary dwelling unit.
            4.   No equipment or process shall be used that creates excessive
noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical interference.
            5.   No display of products shall be visible from the street.
            6.   A Class A home occupation shall be subject to all applicable
licenses and business taxes.
            7.   No persons other than members of the family residing on the
premises shall be engaged in the home occupation.
            8.   Storage space and the operation of the business inside the
dwelling unit shall not exceed 25% of the first floor area of the residence.
            9.   Customers and employees coming to the residence to conduct
business shall not be permitted.
            10.   No signage shall be permitted.
         (c)   Class B. A Class B home occupation is a business, profession,
occupation or trade conducted for gain or support within a residential dwelling
or its accessory buildings that requires employees, customers, clients or
patrons to visit the home. A Class B home occupation shall be permitted as a
conditional use provided that the Board of Adjustment shall determine in its
judgment that:
            1.   It is carried on by a person residing on the premises and
employs no more than 2 employees not living on the premises;
            2.   No more than 20% of the total actual floor area of the
dwelling shall be in the conduct of the home occupation;
            3.   No more than 2 vehicles are used in the conduct of the home
occupation, and such vehicles are parked off the street;
            4.   No merchandise or commodity is sold on the premises, except
what is incidental to the home occupation;
            5.   No mechanical equipment is installed or used except such that
is normally used for domestic or professional purposes;
            6.   No expansion shall be permitted outside the principal
structure that houses the home occupation, except that which is necessary to
house vehicles used in the conduct of the home occupation;
            7.   It is appropriately located with respect to transportation
facilities, water supply, fire and police protection, waste disposal, and
similar facilities;
            8.   The use will not create undue traffic congestion or create a
traffic hazard; and
            9.   Advertising signs shall be limited to 1 unlighted wall sign no
larger than 3 square feet in area, attached to the structure housing the home
occupation, or 1 yard sign of the same size not to exceed 3 feet in height.
      (3)   Swimming pools. When allowed, in-ground and above ground swimming
pools that have a water depth over 24 inches and or have a surface area of at
least 100 square feet shall be subject to the following requirements (see of
Chapter 153, Swimming Pools, for additional standards).
         (a)   Private pools. Private swimming pools (as well as the decking
and equipment associated with the pool)  on single-family detached, zero lot
lines, alley-loaded, and two-family lots shall not be located in the street
yard and shall not be closer than 5 feet to any property line.
         (b)   Outdoor community pools, private club pools, or pools in multi-
family complexes.
            1.   Outdoor pools including decking shall be located at least 50
feet from any property line adjacent to a residential district or use, and at
least 25 feet from any property line adjacent to any other district or use.
            2.   When the pool is adjacent to off-site residences, the playing
of music detectable off-site on a public address system is prohibited.
Informational announcements shall be permitted. This requirement may be waived
if a permit has been issued for a special event.
      (4)   Vehicle repair. Up to 2 vehicles may be repaired simultaneously on
a residential property if the vehicles are registered to an occupant of the
residence.
      (5)   Vehicle sales. Vehicle sales shall be prohibited within a
residential district or on property devoted to residential use, except that the
sale of a private vehicle registered to the occupant of the residence shall be
allowed. No more than 1 such vehicle shall be displayed at a time.
   (D)   Accessory uses in nonresidential districts.
      (1)   Drive-thru. Drive-thru facilities shall be subject to the following
requirements:
         (a)   A drive-thru shall only be permitted in conjunction with a
permitted nonresidential use.
         (b)   Drive-thru windows and lanes shall be screened in accordance
with §
156.402.
      (2)   Outdoor seating and dining. Outdoor seating and dining may be
allowed subject to major site plan approval by the Planning Board (see §
156.707).
      (3)   Swimming pools.
         (a)   Outdoor pools shall meet the standards of
Chapter 153, Swimming Pools.
         (b)   Outdoor pools including decking shall be located at least 50
feet from any property line adjacent to a residential district or use, and at
least 25 feet from any property line adjacent to any other district or use.
         (c)   When the pool is adjacent to residences, the playing of music
detectable off-site on a public address system is prohibited. Informational
announcements shall be permitted. This requirement may be waived if a permit
has been issued for a special event.
   (E)   Accessory uses for places of worship. Accessory uses are permitted for
a place of worship in accordance with the following standards:
      (1)   The following facilities may be considered accessory to a place of
worship. Additional buffering may be required through the review and approval
of a site plan to address the intensity of the proposed place of worship and
the proposed accessory uses:
         (a)   Offices for the place of worship;
         (b)   Rooms for religious instruction or counseling;
         (c)   Meeting rooms for intermittent community meetings or
instruction;
         (d)   Fellowship hall;
         (e)   Kitchen facilities;
         (f)   Senior center, neighborhood arts center or other community
center;
         (g)   Temporary child care during religious services or events;
         (h)   Outdoor play area;
         (i)   Columbarium;
         (j)   "Meals on Wheels" or other similar programs using the kitchen in
the place of worship but delivering food elsewhere; and
         (k)   Residence for clergy employed by the place of worship.
      (2)   The following accessory uses are subject to approval of a major
site plan by the Planning Board (see §
156.707):
         (a)   Gymnasium or similar indoor recreational facility;
         (b)   Cemetery;
         (c)   Overnight accommodation for visiting clergy and non-paying
guests of clergy employed by the place of worship;
         (d)   Child care center;
         (e)   School;
         (f)   Soup kitchen or other social service facility; and
         (g)   Athletic field or similar facility.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.306  TEMPORARY USES.
   (A)   General requirements. Certain uses are temporary in character. They
vary in type and degree, as well as length of time involved. Such uses may have
little impact on surrounding and nearby properties or they may present
questions involving potential incompatibility of the temporary use with
existing uses. Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, the following
regulations shall govern temporary uses.
   (B)   Temporary uses exempt from permit. The following permitted temporary
uses are exempt from these requirements.
      (1)   Christmas tree sales lots.
      (2)   Garage or yard sales are permitted only by the property owner on
their property and are allowed once every 4 months at any given location. The
sale may not exceed 3 consecutive days  in length. Advertising signs may not be
placed on any rights-of-way or off-site locations without the owners'
permission.
      (3)   Storage pods for off-site storage of household or other goods
located in any street yard are permitted for a maximum of 7 consecutive days,
and any side or rear yard for a maximum of 30 consecutive days.
   (C)   Temporary use permit required. The following temporary uses are
allowed in the frequency stated below except that no property shall have more
than 4 of the events listed below in 1 calendar year.
      (1)   Commercial circuses, carnivals or fairs. Commercial circuses,
carnivals or fairs, for not more than 2 consecutive weeks in any calendar year.
      (2)   Temporary religious or revival activities. Temporary religious or
revival activities in tents in association with a place of worship, for not
more than 2 consecutive weeks in any calendar year.
      (3)   Non-profit special events. Special events run by non-profit,
eleemosynary organizations occurring no longer than 7 consecutive days once
every 3 months.
      (4)   Tent sales. Tent sales by merchants occupying the premises on which
the sale is conducted and having a valid certificate of occupancy, and
occurring no longer than 7 consecutive days once every 6 months.
      (5)   Grand opening sales. Grand opening sales, including outside food
and beverage vending, for 3 consecutive days, once per certificate of
occupancy.
      (6)   Outdoor vehicle show or sale. Outdoor motor vehicle or recreational
vehicle show or sale, for 3 consecutive days, twice per calendar year.
      (7)   Other temporary uses. Other temporary uses similar in nature to the
ones listed above, with corresponding limitations, as determined by the
Planning Director.
   (D)   Temporary outdoor display of merchandise.
      (1)   Outdoor display of merchandise in nonresidential districts by
merchants occupying the premises and having a valid certificate of occupancy,
occurring no longer than 9 consecutive days up to 4 times per year, is allowed
subject to issuance of a temporary use permit and all of the following
conditions:
         (a)   Merchandise shall only be displayed in front of the premises
occupied by the merchant;
         (b)   Merchandise shall not be displayed closer than 5 feet to any
entrance to the premises;
         (c)   Merchandise shall only be displayed in a manner that does not
obstruct pedestrian or vehicular circulation or traffic;
         (d)   The display of merchandise shall not exceed 8 feet in height;
         (e)   Merchandise shall only be displayed during the merchant's hours
of operation, and must be taken inside the premises at closing;
         (f)   Merchandise shall only be displayed in an area not wider than
50% of the total linear foot frontage of the building occupied by the merchant;
         (g)   The required temporary use permit must be visibly displayed at
the main entrance of the associated merchant; and
         (h)   A violation of any conditions set out in this section shall
constitute a violation of the temporary use permit and cause said temporary use
permit to be revoked. Once revoked, a temporary use permit shall not be issued
for the same temporary use for a period of 1 year.
      (2)   Any temporary use permit issued under divisions (C)(1) through (C)
(7) above shall be counted in the maximum number of temporary use permits
allowed for the temporary outdoor display of merchandise.
      (3)   The requirements of this section do not supersede the permanent
outdoor storage or display requirements of §
156.405.
   (E)   Manufactured home or trailer for temporary use. After approval by the
Planning Director, a manufactured home or trailer may be used as a temporary
office, security shelter, or shelter for materials or tools (but not for
residential purposes or sales offices) incident to construction on or
development of the premises upon which the manufactured home or trailer is
located. Such use shall be strictly limited to the time construction or
development is actively underway. In no event shall the use continue more than
6 months without the further approval of the Planning Director. The temporary
use shall be approved only upon finding that actual construction is continuing.
   (F)   Temporary use in conjunction with special event permit. Where a valid
permit has been issued by the town for use of adjacent right-of-way that makes
the street unavailable to vehicular traffic, a temporary use permit may be
issued in accordance for events on the grounds or in the parking lot of any
adjacent parcel during the period of the special event permit.
   (G)   Real estate development projects.
      (1)   A developer may request a temporary use permit for necessary
commercial, promotional, storage, or fabrication activities at the development
site which occur during construction of that developer's project.
      (2)   When the request is for a temporary sales office, model home, or
apartment, the application shall list the lots, apartment units, or dwelling
units to be initially sold.
      (3)   The temporary use permit shall be restricted to only those
activities and properties listed on the petition. Such activities shall not
include any sale of properties outside the development site or any resale of
properties.
      (4)   The following uses in connection with such a project require a
temporary use permit:
         (a)   Offices for sale of real estate or for persons engaged in the
development;
         (b)   Construction materials storage, general contractor's business
office, processing, or fabrication;
         (c)   Equipment storage; and
         (d)   Model homes or sample apartments.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.307  WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   Purpose and legislative intent. The Telecommunications Act of 1996
affirmed the town's authority concerning the placement, construction and
modification of wireless telecommunications facilities. The town finds that 
wireless telecommunications facilities may pose significant concerns to the
health, safety, public welfare, character and environment of the town and its
inhabitants. The town also recognizes that facilitating the development of
wireless service technology can be an economic development asset to the town
and of significant benefit to the town and its residents. In order to ensure
that the placement, construction or modification of wireless telecommunications
facilities is consistent with the town's land use policies, the town is
adopting a single, comprehensive, wireless telecommunications facilities
application and permit process. The intent of this section is to minimize the
negative impact of wireless telecommunications facilities, establish a fair and
efficient process for review and approval of applications, assure an
integrated, comprehensive review of environmental impacts of such facilities,
and protect the health, safety and welfare of the town.
   (B)   Overall policy and desired goals for special use permits. In order to
ensure that the placement, construction, and modification of wireless
telecommunications facilities protects the health, safety, public welfare,
environmental features of the town, the nature and character of the community
and neighborhood and other aspects of the quality of life specifically listed
elsewhere in this chapter, the town hereby adopts an overall policy with
respect to a special use permit for wireless telecommunications facilities for
the express purpose of achieving the following goals:
      (1)   Implementing an application process for person(s) seeking a special
use permit for wireless telecommunications facilities;
      (2)   Establishing a policy for examining an application for and issuing
a special use permit for wireless telecommunications facilities that is both
fair and consistent;
      (3)   Promoting and encouraging, wherever possible, the sharing and/or
co-location of wireless telecommunications facilities among service providers;
and
      (4)   Promoting and encouraging, wherever possible, the placement, height
and quantity of wireless telecommunications facilities in such a manner,
including, but not limited to, the use of stealth technology, to minimize
adverse aesthetic and visual impacts on the land, property, buildings, and
other facilities adjacent to, surrounding, and in generally the same area as
the requested location of such wireless telecommunications facilities, which
shall mean using the least visually and physically intrusive facility that is
not technologically or commercially impracticable under the facts and
circumstances.
   (C)   Special use permit application and other requirements.
      (1)   All applicants for a special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities or any modification of such facility shall comply
with the requirements set forth in this section. The Town Board of
Commissioners is the officially designated agency or body of the town  to whom
applications for a special use permit for wireless telecommunications
facilities must be made, and that is authorized to review, analyze, evaluate
and make decisions with respect to granting or not granting, recertifying or
not recertifying, or revoking special use permits for wireless
telecommunications facilities. The town may, at its discretion, delegate or
designate other official agencies of the town or others to accept, review,
analyze, evaluate and make recommendations to the Town Board with respect to
the granting or not granting, recertifying or not recertifying or revoking
special use permits for wireless telecommunications facilities.
      (2)   An application for a special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities  shall be  signed on behalf of the applicant by
the person preparing the same and with knowledge of the contents and
representations made therein and attesting to the truth and completeness of the
information. The landowner, if different than the applicant, shall also sign
the application. At  the discretion of the town, any false or misleading
statement in the application may subject the applicant to denial of the
application without further consideration or opportunity for correction.
      (3)   Applications not meeting the requirements stated herein or which
are otherwise incomplete,  may be rejected by the town.
      (4)   The applicant shall include a statement in writing:
         (a)   That the applicant's proposed wireless telecommunications
facilities shall be maintained in a safe manner, and in compliance with all
conditions of the special use permit, without exception, unless specifically
granted relief by the town in writing, as well as all  applicable and
permissible local codes, ordinances, and regulations, including any and all
applicable town, state and federal laws, rules, and regulations; and
         (b)   That the construction of the wireless telecommunications
facilities is legally permissible, including, but not limited to the fact that
the applicant is authorized to do business in the state.
      (5)   No wireless telecommunications facilities shall be installed or
constructed until the application is reviewed and approved by the town, and the
special use permit has been issued. There shall be no public hearing required
for an application to co-locate on an existing tower or other structure, as
long as there is no proposed increase in the height of the tower or structure,
including attachments thereto.
      (6)   All applications for the construction or installation of new
wireless telecommunications facilities shall contain the information
hereinafter set forth. The application shall be signed by an authorized
individual on behalf of the applicant. Where a certification is called for,
such certification shall bear the signature and seal of a professional engineer
licensed in the state. The application shall include the following information:
         (a)   Documentation that demonstrates the need for the wireless
telecommunications facility to provide service primarily and essentially within
the town. Such documentation shall include propagation studies of the proposed
site and all adjoining planned, proposed, in-service or existing sites;
         (b)   The name, address and phone number of the person preparing the
report;
         (c)   The name, address, and phone number of the property owner,
operator, and applicant, and to include the legal form of the applicant;
         (d)   The postal address and tax map parcel number of the property;
         (e)   The zoning district or designation in which the property is
situated;
         (f)   Size of the property stated both in square feet and lot line
dimensions, and a diagram showing the location of all lot lines;
         (g)   The location of nearest residential structure;
         (h)   The location, size and height of all structures on the property
which is the subject of the application;
         (i)   The location, size and height of all proposed and existing
antennae and all appurtenant structures;
         (j)   The type, locations and dimensions of all proposed and existing
landscaping, and fencing;
         (k)   The number, type and design of the tower(s) and antenna(s)
proposed and the basis for the calculations of the tower's capacity to
accommodate multiple users;
         (l)   The make, model and manufacturer of the tower and antenna(s);
         (m)   A description of the proposed tower and antenna(s) and all
related fixtures, structures, appurtenances and apparatus, including height
above pre-existing grade, materials, color and lighting;
         (n)   The frequency, modulation and class of service of radio or other
transmitting equipment;
         (o)   The actual intended transmission and the maximum effective
radiated power of the antenna(s);
         (p)   Direction of maximum lobes and associated radiation of the
antenna(s);
         (q)   Certification that the NIER levels at the proposed site are
within the threshold levels adopted by the FCC;
         (r)   Certification that the proposed antenna(s) will not cause
interference with other telecommunications devices;
         (s)   A copy of the FCC license applicable for the intended use of the
wireless telecommunications facilities; and
         (t)   Certification that a topographic and geomorphologic study and
analysis has been conducted, and that taking into account the subsurface and
substrata, and the proposed drainage plan, that the site is adequate to assure
the stability of the proposed wireless telecommunications facilities on the
proposed site.
      (7)   In the case of a new tower, the applicant shall be required to
submit a written report demonstrating its meaningful efforts to secure shared
use of existing tower(s) or the use of alternative buildings or other
structures within the town. Copies of written requests and responses for shared
use shall be provided to the town in the application, along with any letters of
rejection stating the reason for rejection.
      (8)   The applicant shall certify that the telecommunication facility,
foundation and attachments are designed and will be constructed to meet all
local, town, state and federal structural requirements for loads, including
wind and ice loads.
      (9)   The applicant shall certify that the wireless telecommunications
facilities will be effectively grounded and bonded so as to protect persons and
property and installed with appropriate surge protectors.
      (10)   An applicant may be required to submit an environmental assessment
analysis and a visual addendum. Based on the results of the analysis, including
the visual addendum, the town may require submission of a more detailed visual
analysis. The scope of the required environmental and visual assessment will be
reviewed at the pre-application meeting.
      (11)   The applicant shall furnish a visual impact assessment, which
shall include:
         (a)   A " Zone of Visibility Map" which shall be provided in order to
determine locations from which the tower may be seen.
         (b)   Pictorial representations of "before and after" views from key
viewpoints both inside and outside of the town as may be appropriate, including
but not limited to state highways and other major roads; state and local parks;
other public lands; historic districts; preserves and historic sites normally
open to the public; and from any other location where the site is visible to a
large number of visitors, travelers or residents. Guidance will be provided,
concerning the appropriate key sites at a pre-application meeting.
         (c)   An assessment of the visual impact of the tower base, guy wires
and accessory buildings from abutting and adjacent properties and streets as
relates to the need or appropriateness  of screening.
      (12)   The applicant shall demonstrate and provide in writing and/or by
drawing how it shall effectively screen from view the base and all related
facilities and structures of the proposed wireless telecommunications
facilities.
      (13)   Any and all representations made by the applicant to the town on
the record during the application process, whether written or verbal, shall be
deemed a part of the application and may be relied upon in good faith by the
town.
      (14)   All utilities at a wireless telecommunications facilities site
shall be installed underground and in compliance with all laws, ordinances,
rules and regulations of the town, including specifically, but not limited to,
the National Electrical Safety Code and the National Electrical Code where
appropriate.
      (15)   All wireless telecommunications facilities shall contain a
demonstration that the facility be sited so as to be the least visually
intrusive reasonably possible and thereby have the least adverse visual effect
on the environment and its character, on existing vegetation, and on the
residences in the area of the wireless telecommunications facility.
      (16)   Both the wireless telecommunications facility and any and all
accessory or associated facilities shall maximize the use of building
materials, colors and textures designed to blend with the structure to which it
may be affixed and/or to harmonize with the natural surroundings. This  shall
include the utilization of stealth or concealment technology as may be required
by the town.
      (17)   At a telecommunications site, an access road, turn around space
and parking shall be provided  to assure adequate emergency and service access.
Maximum use of existing roads, whether public or private, shall be made to the
extent practicable. Road construction shall at all times minimize ground
disturbance and the cutting of vegetation. Road grades shall closely follow
natural contours to assure minimal visual disturbance and reduce soil erosion.
      (18)   A person who holds a special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities shall construct, operate, maintain, repair,
provide for removal of, modify or restore the permitted wireless
telecommunications facilities in strict compliance with all current applicable
technical, safety and safety-related codes adopted by the town, state, or
United States, including but not limited to the most recent editions of the
National Electrical Safety Code and the National Electrical Code, as well as
accepted and responsible workmanlike industry practices and recommended
practices of the National Association of Tower Erectors. The codes referred to
are codes that include, but are not limited to, construction, building,
electrical, fire, safety, health, and land use codes. In the event of a
conflict between or among any of the preceding, the more stringent shall apply.
      (19)   A holder of a special use permit granted under this subchapter
shall obtain, at its own expense, all permits and licenses required by
applicable law, rule, regulation or code, and must maintain the same, in full
force and effect, for as long as required by the town or other governmental
entity or agency having jurisdiction over the applicant.
      (20)   An applicant shall submit to the town the number of completed
applications determined to be needed at the pre-application meeting.
      (21)   The applicant shall examine the feasibility of designing a
proposed tower to accommodate future demand for at least 5 additional
commercial applications, for example, future co- locations. The tower shall be
structurally designed to accommodate at least 5 additional antenna arrays equal
to those of the applicant, and located as close to the applicant's antenna as
possible without causing interference. This requirement may be waived, provided
that the applicant, in writing, demonstrates that the provisions of future
shared usage of the tower is not technologically feasible, is commercially
impracticable or creates an unnecessary and unreasonable burden, based upon:
         (a)   The foreseeable number of FCC licenses available for the area;
         (b)   The kind of wireless telecommunications facilities site and
structure proposed;
         (c)   The number of existing and potential licenses without wireless
telecommunications facilities spaces/sites; and
         (d)   Available space on existing and approved towers.
      (22)   The owner of the proposed new tower, and his/her successors in
interest, shall negotiate in good faith for the shared use of the proposed
tower by other wireless service providers in the future, and shall:
         (a)   Respond within 60 days to a request for information from a
potential shared-use applicant;
         (b)   Negotiate in good faith concerning future requests for shared
use of the new tower by other telecommunications providers;
         (c)   Allow shared use of the new tower if another telecommunications
provider agrees in writing to pay reasonable charges. The charges may include,
but are not limited to, a pro rata share of the cost of site selection,
planning, project administration, land costs, site design, construction and
maintenance financing, return on equity, less depreciation, and all of the
costs of adapting the tower or equipment to accommodate a shared user without
causing electromagnetic interference.
         (d)   Failure to abide by the conditions outlined above may be grounds
for revocation of the special use permit for the tower.
      (23)   There shall be a pre-application meeting with the town staff and
selected consultant. The purpose of the pre-application meeting will be to
address issues, which will help to expedite the review and permitting process.
A pre-application meeting shall also include a site visit if there has not been
a prior site visit for the requested site. Costs of the town's consultants to
prepare for and attend the pre-application meeting will be borne by the
applicant.
      (24)   The holder of a special use permit shall notify the town of any
intended modification of a wireless telecommunication facility and shall apply
to the town to modify, relocate or rebuild a wireless telecommunications
facility.
      (25)   In order to better inform the public, in the case of a new
telecommunication tower, the applicant shall, prior to the public hearing on
the application, hold a "balloon test." The applicant shall arrange to fly, or
raise upon a temporary mast, a minimum of a 3-foot in diameter brightly colored
balloon at the maximum height of the proposed new tower. The dates (including a
second date, in case of poor visibility on the initial date), times and
location of this balloon test shall be advertised by the applicant 7 and 14
days in advance of the first test date in a newspaper with a general
circulation in the town. The applicant shall inform the town, in writing, of
the dates and times of the test, at least 14 days in advance. The balloon shall
be  flown for at least 4 consecutive hours sometime between 7:00 a.m. and 4:00
p.m. on the dates chosen. The primary date shall be on a weekend, but in case
of poor weather on the initial date, the secondary date may be on a week day.
      (26)   The applicant will provide a written copy of an analysis,
completed by a qualified individual or organization, to determine if the tower
or existing structure intended to support wireless facilities requires lighting
under Federal Aviation Administration Regulation Part 77. This requirement
shall be for any new tower or for an existing structure or building where the
application increases the height of the structure or building. If this analysis
determines that the FAA must be contacted, then all filings with the FAA, all
responses from the FAA and any related correspondence shall be provided in a
timely manner.
   (D)   Location and types of wireless telecommunications facilities.
      (1)   Applicants for wireless telecommunications facilities shall locate,
site and erect said wireless telecommunications facilities in accordance with
the following priorities, (a) being the highest priority and (g) being the
lowest priority.
         (a)   On existing towers or other structures on town-owned properties
without increasing the height of the tower or structure.
         (b)   On other existing towers or other structures without increasing
the height of the tower or structure.
         (c)   On existing towers or other structures but which must be
modified in height in order to be of service.
         (d)   On town-owned property.
         (e)   On properties in areas zoned for heavy industrial use.
         (f)   On properties in areas zoned for commercial use.
         (g)   On properties in areas zoned for agricultural use.
         (h)   Towers shall be prohibited from installation in areas zoned
residential, except when located in accordance with divisions (1)(a) and (1)(b)
above or having a height of less than 35 feet.
      (2)   Applicants for wireless telecommunications facilities shall erect
said wireless telecommunications facilities in accordance with the following
priorities, (a) being the highest priority and (d) being the lowest priority.
         (a)   Stealth (i.e.: flag poles, spires, steeples, and the like).
         (b)   Monopole.
         (c)   Lattice.
         (d)   Guy wire tower.
      (3)   If the proposed site/type is not for the highest priority listed
above, then a detailed explanation must be provided as to why a site of a
higher priority was not selected. The person seeking such an exception must
satisfactorily demonstrate the reason or reasons why such a permit should be
granted for the proposed site/type, and the hardship that would be incurred by
the applicant if the permit were not granted for the proposed site.
      (4)   An applicant may not by-pass sites/types of higher priority by
stating the site proposed is the only site leased or selected. An application
shall address co-location as an option. If such option is not proposed, the
applicant must explain to the reasonable satisfaction of the town why co-
location is commercially or otherwise impracticable. Agreements between
providers limiting or prohibiting co-location shall not be a valid basis for
any claim of commercial impracticability or hardship.
      (5)   Notwithstanding the above, the town may approve any site/type
located within an area in the above list of priorities, provided that the town
finds that the proposed site/type is in the best interest of the health, safety
and welfare of the town and its inhabitants and will not have a deleterious
effect on the nature and character of the community and neighborhood.
      (6)   The applicant shall submit a written report demonstrating the
applicant's review of the above locations/types in order of priority,
demonstrating the technological reason for the site selection. If appropriate,
based on selecting a site/type of lower priority, a detailed written
explanation as to why sites/types of a higher priority were not selected shall
be included with the application.
      (7)   Notwithstanding that a potential site/type may be situated in an
area of highest priority or highest available priority, the town may disapprove
an application for any of the following reasons.
         (a)   Conflict with safety and safety-related codes and requirements;
         (b)   Conflict with the historic nature or character of a neighborhood
or historical district;
         (c)   The use or construction of wireless telecommunications
facilities which is contrary to an already stated purpose of a specific zoning
or land use designation;
         (d)   The placement and location of wireless telecommunications
facilities which would create an unacceptable risk, or the reasonable
probability of such, to residents, the public, employees and agents of the
town, or employees of the service provider or other service providers; or
         (e)   Conflicts with the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Shared use of wireless telecommunications facilities and other
structures.
      (1)   Locating on existing towers or others structures without increasing
the height shall be preferred by the town, as opposed to the construction of a
new tower. The applicant shall submit a comprehensive report inventorying
existing towers and other suitable structures within 4 miles of the location of
any proposed new tower, unless the applicant can show that some other distance
is more reasonable and demonstrate conclusively why an existing tower or other
suitable structure cannot be used.
      (2)   An applicant intending to locate on an existing tower or other
suitable structure shall  be  required to document the intent of the existing
owner to permit its use by the applicant.
      (3)   Such shared use shall consist only of the minimum antenna array
technologically required to provide service primarily and essentially within
the town, to the extent practicable, unless good cause is shown.
   (F)   Height of telecommunications towers.
      (1)   The applicant shall submit documentation justifying the total
height needed of any tower,  facility and/or antenna and the basis therefore.
Such documentation will be analyzed in the context of the justification of the
height needed to provide service primarily and essentially within the town, to
the extent practicable, unless good cause is shown.
      (2)   No tower constructed after the effective date of this chapter,
including allowing for all attachments, shall exceed that height which shall
permit operation without required artificial lighting of any kind in accordance
with municipal, town, state, and/or any federal statute, law, local law, town
ordinance, code, rule or regulation.
   (G)   Appearance and visibility of wireless telecommunications facilities.
      (1)   Wireless telecommunications facilities shall not be artificially
lighted or marked, except as required by law.
      (2)   Towers shall be galvanized and painted with a rust-preventive paint
of an appropriate color to harmonize with the surroundings and shall be
maintained in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   If lighting is required, applicant shall provide a detailed plan
for sufficient lighting of as unobtrusive and inoffensive an effect as is
permissible under state and federal regulations.
   (H)   Security of wireless telecommunications facilities. All wireless
telecommunications facilities and antennas shall be located, fenced or
otherwise secured in a manner that prevents unauthorized access. Specifically:
      (1)   All antennas, towers and other supporting structures, including guy
wires, shall be made inaccessible to unauthorized individuals and constructed
or shielded in such a manner that they cannot be climbed or collided with; and
      (2)   Transmitters and telecommunications control points shall be
installed in such a manner that they are readily accessible only to persons
authorized to operate or service them.
   (I)   Signage. Wireless telecommunications facilities shall contain a sign
no larger than 4 square feet in order to provide adequate notification to
persons in the immediate area of the presence of an antenna that has
transmission capabilities and shall contain the name(s) of the owner(s) and
operator(s) of the antenna(s) as well as emergency phone number(s). The sign
shall be on the equipment shelter or cabinet of the applicant and be visible
from the access point of the site and must identify the equipment owner of the
shelter or cabinet. The sign shall not be lighted, unless lighting is required 
by applicable law, rule or regulation. No other sign display, including
advertising, logo or trademark shall be permitted.
   (J)   Lot size and setbacks. All proposed towers and any other proposed
wireless telecommunications facility structures shall be set back from abutting
parcels, recorded rights-of-way and road and street lines by the greater of the
following distances: A distance equal to the height of the proposed tower or
wireless telecommunications facility structure plus 10% of the height of the
tower or structure, or the existing setback requirement of the underlying
zoning district, whichever is greater. Public utility structures are exempt
from these setbacks if co-location or stealth type technology is utilized. Any
accessory structure shall be located so as to comply with the applicable
minimum setback requirements for the property on which it is situated.
   (K)   Retention of expert assistance and reimbursement by applicant.
      (1)   The town may hire any consultant and/or expert necessary to assist
the town in reviewing and evaluating the application, including the
construction and modification of the site, once permitted, and any requests for
recertification.
      (2)   An applicant shall deposit with the town funds sufficient to
reimburse the town for all reasonable costs of consultant and expert evaluation
and consultation to the town in connection with the review of any application
including the construction and modification of the site, once permitted. The
initial deposit shall be determined by the Town Board of Commissioners and
listed in the town's comprehensive list of fees and charges. The placement of
the initial deposit with the town shall precede the pre-application meeting.
The town will maintain a complete accounting of all such funds. The town's
consultants/experts shall provide the applicant with a fee schedule for the
project prior to the start of the application review process. The town's
consultants/experts shall invoice the town for its services in reviewing the
application, including the construction and modification of the site, once
permitted. If at any time during the process this escrow account has a balance
less than $1,000, the applicant shall immediately, upon notification by the
town, replenish said escrow account to a balance of at least $5,000. Such
additional escrow funds shall be deposited with the town before any further
action or consideration is taken on the application. In the event that the
amount held in escrow by the town is more than the amount of the actual
invoicing at the conclusion of the project, the remaining balance shall be
promptly refunded to the applicant.
      (3)   The total amount of the funds needed as set forth in division (K)
(2) above may vary with the scope and complexity of the project, the
completeness of the application and other information as may be needed to
complete the necessary review, analysis and inspection of any construction or
modification.
   (L)   Exceptions from a special use permit.
      (1)   No person shall be permitted to site, place, build, construct,
modify or prepare any site for the placement or use of wireless
telecommunications facilities as of the effective date of this chapter without
having first obtained a special use permit for wireless telecommunications
facilities. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this chapter, no
special use permit shall be required for those non-commercial exceptions noted
in the definition of wireless telecommunications facilities.
      (2)   All wireless telecommunications facilities existing on or before
the effective date of this chapter shall be allowed to continue as they
presently exist, provided however, that any visible modification of an existing
wireless telecommunications facility shall require a special use permit.
   (M)   Public hearing and notification requirements.
      (1)   Prior to the approval of any application for a special use permit
for wireless telecommunications facilities, a public hearing shall be held by
the town, notice of which shall be published in the official newspaper of the
town no less than 10 calendar days prior to the scheduled date of the public
hearing. In order that the town may notify nearby landowners, the application
shall contain the names and address of all landowners whose property is located
within 1,500 feet of any property line of the lot or parcel on which the new
wireless telecommunications facilities are proposed to be located.
      (2)   There shall be no public hearing required for an application to co-
locate on an existing tower or other structure, as long as there is no proposed
increase in the height of the tower or structure, including attachments
thereto.
      (3)   The town shall schedule the public hearing referred to in division
(M)(1) above once it finds the application is complete, the town, at any stage
prior to issuing a special use permit, may require such additional information
as it deems necessary.
   (N)   Action on an application for a special use permit.
      (1)   The town will undertake a review of an application pursuant to this
chapter in a timely fashion, and shall act within a reasonable period of time
given the relative complexity of the application and the circumstances, with
due regard for the public's interest and need to be involved, and the
applicant's desire for a timely resolution.
      (2)   The town may refer any application or part thereof to any advisory
or other committee for a non-binding recommendation.
      (3)   After the public hearing and after formally considering the
application, the town may approve, approve with conditions, or deny a special
use permit. Its decision shall be in writing and shall be supported by findings
of fact as outlined in §
156.711. The burden of proof for the grant of the permit shall always be upon
the applicant.
      (4)   If the town approves the special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities, then the applicant shall be notified of such
approval in writing within 10 calendar days of the town's action, and the
special use permit shall be issued within 30 days after such approval. Except
for necessary building permits, and subsequent certificates of compliance, once
a special use permit has been granted hereunder, no additional permits or
approvals from the town, such as site plan or zoning approvals, shall be
required by the town for the wireless telecommunications facilities covered by
the special use permit.
      (5)   If the town denies the special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities, then the applicant shall be notified of such
denial in writing within 10 calendar days of the town's action.
   (O)   Recertification of a special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities.
      (1)   Between 12 months and 6 months prior to the 5 year anniversary date
after the effective date of the special use permit and all subsequent 5 year
anniversaries of the effective date of the original special use permit for
wireless telecommunications facilities, the holder of a special use permit for
such wireless telecommunication facilities shall submit a signed written
request  to the town for recertification. Any tower approved prior to the
adoption of this amendment is also subject to recertification beginning 5 years
from the effective date of this amendment  and shall follow all recertification
procedures. In the written request for recertification, the holder of such
special use permit shall note the following:
         (a)   The name of the holder of the special use permit for the
wireless telecommunications facilities;
         (b)   If applicable, the number or title of the special use permit;
         (c)   The date of the original granting of the special use permit;
         (d)   Whether the wireless telecommunications facilities have been
moved, re-located, rebuilt, or otherwise visibly modified since the issuance of
the special use permit and if so, in what manner;
         (e)   If the wireless telecommunications facilities have been moved,
re-located, rebuilt, or otherwise visibly modified, then whether the town
approved such action, and under what terms and conditions, and whether those
terms and conditions were complied with;
         (f)   That the wireless telecommunications facilities are in
compliance with the special use permit and compliance with all applicable
codes, laws, rules and regulations;
         (g)   Recertification that the tower and attachments both are designed
and constructed and continue to meet all local, town, state and federal
structural requirements for loads, including wind and ice loads. Such
recertification shall be by a professional engineer licensed in the state, the
cost of which shall be borne by the applicant.
      (2)   If, after such review, the town determines that the permitted
wireless telecommunications facilities are in compliance with the special use
permit and all applicable statutes, laws, local laws, ordinances, codes, rules
and regulations, then the town issue a recertification of the special use
permit for the wireless telecommunications facilities, which may include any
new provisions or conditions that are mutually agreed upon, or that are
required by applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, codes, rules or regulations.
If, after such review it is determined that the permitted wireless
telecommunications facilities are not in compliance with the special use permit
and all applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, codes, rules and regulations,
then the town may refuse to issue a recertification special use permit for the
wireless telecommunications facilities, and in such event, such wireless
telecommunications facilities shall not be used after the date that the
applicant receives written notice of the decision by the town until such time
as the facility is brought into compliance. Any decision requiring the
cessation of use of the  facility or imposing a penalty shall be in writing and
supported by substantial evidence contained in a written record and shall be
promptly provided to the owner of the facility.
      (3)   If the applicant has submitted all of the information requested and
required by this chapter, and if the review is not completed, as noted in
division (O)(1) above, prior to the 5 year anniversary date of the special use
permit, or subsequent 5 year anniversaries, then the applicant for the
permitted wireless telecommunications facilities shall receive an extension of
the special use permit for up to 6 months, in order for the completion of the
review.
      (4)   If the holder of a special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities does not submit a request for recertification of
such special use permit within the timeframe noted in division (O)(1) above,
then such special use permit and any authorizations granted thereunder shall
cease to exist on the date of the fifth anniversary of the original granting of
the special use permit, or subsequent 5 year anniversaries, unless the holder
of the special use permit adequately demonstrates that extenuating
circumstances prevented a timely recertification request. If the town agrees
that there were legitimately extenuating circumstances, then the holder of the
special use permit may submit a late recertification request or application for
a new special use permit.
   (P)   Extent and parameters of special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities. The extent and parameters of a special use
permit for wireless telecommunications facilities shall be as follows:
      (1)   Such special use permit shall be non-exclusive;
      (2)   Such special use permit shall not be assigned, transferred or
conveyed without prior written notification to the town; and
      (3)   Such special use permit may, following a hearing upon due prior
notice to the applicant, be revoked, canceled, or terminated for a violation of
the conditions and provisions of the special use permit, or for a material
violation of this chapter after prior written notice to the holder  of the
special use permit.
   (Q)   Application fee.
      (1)   At the time that a person submits an application for a special use
permit for a new tower, such person shall pay a non-refundable application fee
in accordance with the town's adopted comprehensive list of fees and charges to
the town. If the application is for a special use permit for co-locating on an
existing tower or other suitable structure, where no increase in height of the
tower or structure is required, a lesser non-refundable fee shall be paid in
accordance with the comprehensive list of fees and charges.
      (2)   No application fee is required in order to recertify a special use
permit for wireless telecommunications facilities, unless there has been a
visible modification of the wireless telecommunications facility since the date
of the issuance of the existing special use permit for which the conditions of
the special use permit have not previously been modified. In the case of any
modification, the fees provided in division (Q)(1) above shall apply.
   (R)   Reservation of authority to inspect wireless telecommunications
facilities. In order to verify that the holder of a special use permit for
wireless telecommunications facilities and any and all lessees, renters, and/or
licensees of wireless telecommunications facilities, place and construct such
facilities, including towers and antennas, in accordance with all applicable 
technical, safety, fire, building, and zoning codes, laws, ordinances and
regulations and other applicable requirements, the town may inspect all facets
of said permit holder's, renter's, lessee's or licensee's placement,
construction, modification and maintenance of such facilities, including, but
not limited  to towers, antennas and buildings or other structures constructed
or located on the permitted site.
   (S)   Annual NIER certification. The holder of the special use permit shall,
annually, certify to the town that NIER levels at the site are within the
threshold levels adopted by the FCC.
   (T)   Liability insurance.
      (1)   A holder of a special use permit for wireless telecommunications
facilities shall secure and at all times maintain public liability insurance
for personal injuries, death and property damage, and umbrella insurance
coverage, for the duration of the special use permit in amounts as set forth
below:
         (a)   Commercial general liability covering personal injuries, death
and property damage: $1,000,000 per occurrence/$2,000,000 aggregate;
         (b)   Automobile coverage: $1,000,000 per occurrence/$2,000,000
aggregate;
         (c)   Workers compensation and disability: statutory amounts.
      (2)   The commercial general liability insurance policy shall
specifically include the town and its officers, boards, employees, committee
members, attorneys, agents and consultants as additional named insured.
      (3)   The insurance policies shall be issued by an agent or
representative of an insurance company licensed to do business in the state and
with a Best's rating of at least A.
      (4)   The insurance policies shall contain an endorsement obligating the
insurance company to  furnish the town with at least 90 days prior written
notice in advance of the cancellation of the insurance.
      (5)   Renewal or replacement policies or certificates shall be delivered
to the town at least 15 days before the expiration of the insurance that such
policies are to renew or replace.
      (6)   Before construction of a permitted wireless telecommunications
facility is initiated, but in no case later than 45 days after the grant of the
special use permit, the holder of the special use permit shall deliver to the
town a copy of each of the policies or certificates representing the insurance
in the required amounts.
   (U)   Indemnification.
      (1)   Any application for wireless telecommunication facilities that is
proposed for town property, pursuant to this chapter, shall contain a provision
with respect to indemnification. Such provision shall require the applicant, to
the extent permitted by the law, to at all times defend, indemnify, protect,
save, hold harmless, and exempt the town, and its officers, boards, employees,
committee members, attorneys, agents, and consultants from any and all
penalties, damages, costs, or charges arising out of any and all claims, suits,
demands, causes of action, or award of damages, whether compensatory or
punitive, or expenses arising therefrom, either at law or in equity, which
might arise out of, or are caused by, the placement, construction, erection,
modification, location, products performance, use, operation, maintenance,
repair, installation, replacement, removal, or restoration of said facility,
excepting, however,  any portion of such claims, suits, demands, causes of
action or award of damages as may be attributable to the negligent or
intentional acts or omissions of the town, or its servants or agents. With
respect to the penalties, damages or charges referenced herein, reasonable
attorneys' fees, consultants' fees, and expert witness fees are included in
those costs that are recoverable by the town.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the requirements noted in division (U)(1) above, an
indemnification provision will not be required in those instances where the
town itself applies for and secures a special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities.
   (V)   Fines.
      (1)   In the event of a violation of this chapter or any special use
permit issued pursuant to this chapter, the town may impose and collect, and
the holder of the special use permit for wireless telecommunications facilities
shall pay to the town, fines or penalties as set forth in §
10.98.
      (2)   Notwithstanding anything in this chapter, the holder of the special
use permit for wireless telecommunications facilities may not use the payment
of fines, liquidated damages or other penalties, to evade or avoid compliance
with this chapter or any section of this chapter. An attempt to do so shall
subject the holder of the special use permit to termination and revocation of
the special use permit. The town may also seek injunctive relief to prevent the
continued violation of this chapter, without limiting other remedies available
to the town.
   (W)   Default and/or revocation.
      (1)   If wireless telecommunications facilities are repaired, rebuilt,
placed, moved, re-located, modified or maintained in a way that is inconsistent
or not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter or of the special use
permit, then the town shall notify the holder of the special use permit in
writing of such violation. Such notice shall specify the nature of the
violation or non-compliance and that the violations must be corrected within 7
days of the date of the postmark of the notice, or of the date of personal
service of the notice, whichever is earlier. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in this division or any other section of this chapter, if the
violation causes, creates or presents an imminent danger or threat to the
health or safety of lives or property, the town may, at its sole discretion,
order the violation remedied within 24 hours.
      (2)   If within the period set forth in division (W)(1) above the
wireless telecommunications facilities are not brought into compliance with the
provisions of this chapter, or of the special use permit, or substantial steps
are not taken in order to bring the affected wireless telecommunications
facilities into compliance, then the town may revoke such special use permit
for wireless telecommunications facilities, and shall notify the holder of the
special use permit within 48 hours of such action.
   (X)   Removal of wireless telecommunications facilities.
      (1)   Under the following circumstances, the town may determine that the
health, safety, and welfare interests of the town warrant and require the
removal of wireless telecommunications facilities.
         (a)   Wireless telecommunications facilities with a permit that have
been abandoned (i.e. not used as wireless telecommunications facilities) for a
period exceeding 90 consecutive days or a total of 180 days in any 365 day
period, except for periods caused by force majeure or acts of God, in which
case, repair or removal shall commence within 90 days;
         (b)   Permitted wireless telecommunications facilities fall into such
a state of disrepair that it creates a health or safety hazard;
         (c)   Wireless telecommunications facilities have been located,
constructed, or modified without first obtaining, or in a manner not authorized
by, the required special use permit, or any other necessary authorization.
      (2)   If the town makes such a determination as noted in division (X)(1),
then the town shall notify the holder of the special use permit for the
wireless telecommunications facilities within 48 hours that said wireless
telecommunications facilities are to be removed, the town may approve an
interim temporary use agreement/permit, such as to enable the sale of the
wireless telecommunications facilities.
      (3)   The holder of the special use permit, or its successors or assigns,
shall dismantle and remove such wireless telecommunications facilities, and all
associated structures and facilities, from the site and restore the site to as
close to its original condition as is possible, such restoration being limited
only by physical or commercial impracticability, within 90 days of receipt of
written notice from the town. However, if the owner of the property upon which
the wireless telecommunications facilities are located wishes to retain any
access roadway to the wireless telecommunications facilities, the owner may do
so with the approval of the town.
      (4)   If wireless telecommunications facilities are not removed or
substantial progress has not been made to remove the wireless
telecommunications facilities within 90 days after the permit  holder has
received notice, then the town may order officials or representatives of the
town to remove the wireless telecommunications facilities at the sole expense
of the owner or special use permit holder.
      (5)   If the town removes, or causes to be removed, wireless
telecommunications facilities, and the owner of the wireless telecommunications
facilities does not claim and remove it from the site  to a lawful location
within 10 days, then the town may take steps to declare the wireless
telecommunications facilities abandoned, and sell them and their components.
      (6)   Notwithstanding anything in this section to the contrary, the town
may approve a temporary  use permit/agreement for the wireless
telecommunications facilities, for no more 90 days, during which time a
suitable plan for removal, conversion, or re-location of the affected  wireless
telecommunications facilities shall be developed by the holder of the special
use permit, subject to the approval of the town, and an agreement to such plan
shall be executed by the holder of the special use permit and the town. If such
a plan is not developed, approved and executed within the 90 day time period,
then the town may take possession of and dispose of the affected wireless
telecommunications facilities in the manner provided in this section.
   (Y)   Relief. Any applicant desiring relief, waiver or exemption from any
aspect or requirement of this subchapter may request such at the pre-
application meeting, provided that the relief or exemption is contained in the
original application for either a special use permit, or in the case of an
existing or previously granted special use permit a request for modification of
its tower and/or facilities. Such relief may be temporary or permanent, partial
or complete. However, the burden of proving the need for the requested relief,
waiver or exemption is solely on the applicant to prove. The applicant shall
bear all costs of the town in considering the request and the relief, waiver or
exemption. No such relief or exemption shall be approved unless the applicant
demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence that, if granted, the relief,
waiver or exemption will have no significant effect on the health, safety and
welfare of the town, its residents and other service providers.
   (Z)   Periodic regulatory review.
      (1)   The town may at any time conduct a review and examination of this
entire chapter.
      (2)   If after such a periodic review and examination of this chapter,
the town determines that  1 or more provisions of this chapter should be
amended, repealed, revised, clarified, or deleted, then the town may take
whatever measures are necessary in accordance with  applicable law in order to
accomplish the same. It is noted that where warranted, and in the best
interests of the town, the town may repeal this entire chapter at any time.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (Z)(1) and (Z)(2) 
above, the town may at any time, and in any manner (to the extent permitted by
federal, state, or local law), amend, add, repeal, and/or delete 1 or more
provisions of this chapter.
   (AA)   Adherence to state and/or federal rules and regulations.
      (1)   To the extent that the holder of a special use permit for wireless
telecommunications facilities has not received relief, or is otherwise exempt,
from appropriate state and/or federal agency rules or regulations, then the
holder of such a special use permit shall adhere to, and comply with, all
applicable rules, regulations, standards, and provisions of any state or
federal agency, including, but not limited to, the FAA and the FCC.
Specifically included in this requirement are any rules and regulations
regarding height, lighting, security, electrical and RF emission standards.
      (2)   To the extent that applicable rules, regulations, standards, and
provisions of any state or federal agency, including but not limited to, the
FAA and the FCC, and specifically including any rules and regulations regarding
height, lighting, and security are changed and/or are modified during the
duration of a special use permit for wireless telecommunications facilities,
then the holder of such a special use permit shall conform the permitted
wireless telecommunications facilities to the applicable changed and/or
modified rule, regulation, standard, or provision within a maximum of 24 months
of the effective date of the applicable changed and/or modified rule,
regulation, standard, or provision, or sooner as may be required by the issuing
entity.
   (BB)   Conflict with other laws. Where this chapter differs or conflicts
with other laws, rules and regulations, unless the right to do so is preempted
or prohibited by the town, state or federal government, this chapter shall
apply.
   (CC)   Severability.
      (1)   If any word, phrase, sentence, part, section, subsection, or other
portion of this chapter or  any application thereof to any person or
circumstance is declared void, unconstitutional, or invalid for any reason,
then such word, phrase, sentence, part, section, subsection, or other portion,
or the proscribed application thereof, shall be severable, and the remaining
provisions  of this chapter, and all applications thereof, not having been
declared void, unconstitutional, or invalid, shall remain in full force and
effect.
      (2)   Any special use permit issued under this chapter shall be
comprehensive and not severable. If part of a permit is deemed or ruled to be
invalid or unenforceable in any material respect, by a competent authority, or
is overturned by a competent authority, the permit shall be void in total, upon
determination by the town.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 156.400  ACCESS.
   (A)   Kenly general design guidelines. Additional considerations may be
outlined in the Kenly general design guidelines.
   (B)   Access required.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) below, no principal building,
structure, or use may be erected or established on any lot which does not abut
at least 30 feet on a street constructed to the standards of the town and
dedicated as a public street to the town or the state.
      (2)   The Planning Director may authorize, in specific situations, the
erection or establishment of a principal building, structure, or use on a lot
not meeting these requirements if it is clear that adequate provision for
access for the type and intensity of use proposed has been or will be provided,
and there are special circumstances, such as the rural nature of the lot and
area, or in the case of a nonresidential use, that an easement has been
recorded guaranteeing accessibility, that make the application of these
requirements to the proposed use not feasible or undesirable.
   (C)   Access to major thoroughfares.
      (1)   Whenever a subdivision that involves the creation of 1 or more new
streets borders on or contains an existing or proposed major thoroughfare, no
direct driveway access may be provided from lots within the subdivision onto
this street.
      (2)   When a lot or development borders on or contains an existing or
proposed thoroughfare access to the thoroughfare may be limited by 1 of the
following means:
         (a)   Driveway access between the lot and the thoroughfare shall be
located not closer than 400 feet to the nearest centerline of any other
proposed or existing driveway access along the same side of the thoroughfare.
         (b)   Lots shall be subdivided so as to provide access onto a frontage
road or reverse frontage road. The centerline of the frontage or reverse
frontage road where it intersects the thoroughfare shall be no closer than 800
feet to the centerline of the nearest proposed or existing driveway access or
road.
         (c)   Approval of driveway access between a lot and the thoroughfare
at an interval less than those specified may be granted only by review and
recommendation of the Public Works Director and NCDOT.
      (3)   The driveway access provisions shall not be applicable to any
subdivision lot where:
         (a)   The effect of such application would be to deprive the lot of
reasonable access; or
         (b)   The size of the parcel being subdivided, or lack of frontage on
the thoroughfare makes the alternatives above not feasible.
      (4)   No zoning permit or certificate of occupancy may be issued until
the major thoroughfare access requirements of this chapter have been met.
   (D)   Access to minor thoroughfares. All access to minor thoroughfares shall
occur in accordance with the following:
      (1)   Provision of a frontage road. Lots may take direct access onto a
frontage road.
      (2)   Provision of cul-de-sacs. Lots may take indirect access by fronting
on cul-de-sacs.
      (3)    Chang e of lot orientation. Lots may front on a parallel
residential street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-61.png]
 
   (E)   Residential driveways. Residential driveway access to and from streets
shall be constructed in accordance with town standards as outlined below:
      (1)   Driveway type. The standard residential driveway access for the
town shall be the "ramp" type driveway section. Ramp-type driveways shall be
constructed in accordance with town standards and specifications as outlined in
the town's engineering design manual.
      (2)   Width of driveway. The width of a residential driveway shall be no
less than 10 feet and no more than 24 feet. When 2 residential driveways
coincide along a property line, the maximum width shall not exceed 24 feet.
      (3)   Number of driveway access points. The number of residential
driveway access points servicing any lawful lot should be limited to 1;
however, in no instance shall there be more than 2 residential driveway access
points servicing the lot.
      (4)   Location of driveway access points. Residential driveways shall be
spaced at least 20 feet from any other driveway on the same lot, but not nearer
than 3½ feet to any lot line, except where 2 residential driveways coincide
along the same lot line. The minimum corner clearance from the curb line or
edge of pavement of intersecting streets shall be at least 20 feet from the
point of tangency of the radius curvature, or 20 feet from the intersection of
right-of-way lines, whichever is greater. The radius of the driveway shall not
encroach on the minimum corner clearance.
   (F)   Nonresidential driveways.
      (1)   Nonresidential driveway access to and from streets shall be
constructed in accordance with the standards and specifications provided in the
manual, Policy on Street and Driveway Access to North Carolina Highways, as
adopted and amended by NCDOT. For any development, the number of driveway
access points may be restricted where it is necessary for purposes of
decreasing traffic congestion or hazards. These restrictions may include
required common access points. The Town Attorney shall approve the recordable
documents for all required common access points.
      (2)   Outparcels shall take access from within the development, where
possible.
      (3)   Emergency access drives shall be a minimum of 24 feet in width.
   (G)   Multiple entrances required. In order to accommodate emergency and
service vehicles, the following standards shall apply.
      (1)   Any residential subdivision of greater than 30 lots shall include
at least 2 access points. The second access may consist of stub street.
      (2)   Any residential subdivision of greater than 75 lots shall include
at least 2 access points. Stub streets shall not be considered part of the 2
access points.
      (3)   No more than 75 certificates of occupancy may be issued within the
subdivision until the required secondary access has been constructed or bonded
for construction.
      (4)   Residential subdivisions of 250 or more lots shall provide 3
separate access points. Where 3 or more access points are required, the Town
Board of Commissioners may waive the requirement for immediate construction of
more than 2 access points, provided that subdivision phasing and design
illustrates the additional required connections. For those subdivisions large
enough to require a third access, a stub-out street may be credited as a
required access if the 2 functioning access roads are both connected to a
collector road.
      (5)   A waiver (see §
156.706) of these standards may be allowed by the Town Board of Commissioners
during approval of the preliminary subdivision plat only in extreme cases where
limited frontage, natural features (slope, topography), or similar
circumstances preclude the required connections and there is no substantial
impact noted regarding emergency service delivery.
   ( H)   Divided entrance s required . Where the Town Board of Commis sioners
determin es it is necessary, a divided entrance shall be required for a
subdivision or development. Where a divided entrance is credited as 2 access
points, the divided entrance shall be 4 travel lanes from the intersection with
the public road system to the first intersection within the development.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-63.png]
 
   (I)   Nonresidential driveway access to adjacent development.
      (1)   Driveway connections to adjacent development shall be provided and
clearly identified. All driveway connections shall be constructed and stubbed,
and future development of adjacent property shall complete a connection to any
existing stub.
      (2)   Access easements may be required to ensure outparcels or adjacent
developments have adequate access if ownership patterns change.
      (3)   The Planning Board or Town Board of Commissioners may waive the
requirement for a driveway connection required above in those cases where
unusual topography or site conditions would render such an easement of no
benefit to adjoining properties.
      (4)   The Planning Board or Town Board of Commissioners may approve the
closure of driveway access in those cases where adjoining parcels are
subsequently developed with a residential use.
   (J)   Shared access. A shared access easement may be required between
adjacent lots fronting on arterial and collector streets in order to minimize
the total number of access points along those streets and to facilitate traffic
flow between lots. The location and dimensions of such easement shall be
determined by the Planning Board.
   (K)   Closure or relocation of existing access points. The Planning Board or
Town Board of Commissioners, in conjunction with NCDOT, shall have the
authority to require the closure or relocation of existing access points where
multiple access points to the site are available.
   (L)   Visibility at intersections.
      (1)   Corner lots. On a corner lot, nothing shall be erected, placed,
planted, or allowed to grow in such a manner  as to materially impede vision
between a height of 2½ feet and 10 feet in a triangular area formed by a
diagonal line between 2 points on the right-of-way lines, 20 feet from where
they intersect.
      (2)   Driveways. Adequate sight distance should be provided at all
driveway access points and shall be in accordance with the standards provided
in the manual, Policy on Street and Driveway Access to North Carolina Highways,
as adopted and amended by the NCDOT.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.401  OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   Unless specifically exempt, all existing and proposed development
shall provide off-street parking and loading facilities in accordance with this
section. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until these parking
requirements and regulations have been met.
      (2)   With the exception of a restriping of a parking area or other
vehicular use area which does not result in a reconfiguration of the parking
spaces, any modification to existing off-street parking and loading facilities
shall conform to the requirements of this section.
      (3)   No land with more than 5 parking spaces shall be developed as a
parking area or parking garage without an approved site plan issued in
accordance with §
156.707.
      (4)   Buildings and uses lawfully existing as of the effective date of
this chapter may be redeveloped, renovated or repaired without providing
additional off-street parking and loading facilities, providing there is no
increase in gross floor area or change in use of existing floor area that would
increase parking demands.
      (5)   Where a building existed as of the effective date of this chapter,
and such building is enlarged in gross floor area or impervious area by 10% or
2,000 square feet, whichever is less, off-street parking and loading as
specified in this section shall be required for the enlarged area.
      (6)   A change in use of a building or use existing as of the effective
date of this chapter shall require additional off-street parking and loading
facilities to comply with the requirements of this section for the new use
unless:
         (a)   The building is less than 2,000 square feet in floor area; or
         (b)   The new use has the same parking requirement or a lesser
requirement than the previous one.
      (7)   In the Central Business District, the Planning Director may allow a
new use to be established, even if all off-street parking and loading
requirements of this section cannot be met for the new use, provided that as
much off-street parking and loading as can reasonably be provided is provided
by the use, and no foreseeable traffic congestion problems will be created.
   (B)   How to use this section. This section is divided into the following:
      (1)   Part 1. Off-Street Parking:      §
156.401(C)
      (2)   Part 2. Off-Street Stacking   :   §
156.401(D)
      (3)   Part 3. Off-Street Loading:      §
156.401(E)
   (C)   Off-street parking; requirements.
      (1)   Calculation of parking ratios.
         (a)   Developments containing more than 1 use shall provide parking
spaces in an amount equal to the total of the requirements for all uses.
         (b)   Where fractional spaces result, the parking spaces required
shall be construed to be the  next highest whole number.
         (c)   The parking space requirements for a use not specifically listed
in the table below shall be the same as for the listed use deemed most similar
to the proposed use by the Planning Director.
         (d)   In residential districts in which garage space is provided, the
garage space may be considered in determining whether required parking has been
met.
      (2)   Parking ratios.
         (a)   Minimum. The following minimum off-street parking ratios shall
be applicable to all general use zoning districts. Where in the opinion of the
applicant, a listed ratio requires too much or too little parking, the
applicant may provide an alternative parking plan with data submitted in
support of higher or lower ratios (see §
156.401).
Residential Uses
Residential Uses
Single-family detached
Zero lot line
Alley-loaded                All uses               2 per unit
Two-Family
Townhouse
Manufactured home
                            Studio                 1.25 per unit
Apartment                   1 bedroom              1.50 per unit
Upper-story residential     2 bedroom              1.75 per unit
                            3+ bedroom             2.00 per unit
Manufactured home park                            2 per unit + 1 visitor space
                                                   per 4 units
Civic Uses
Adult care home (2 to 6
adults)
Adult care home (7 to 12                           2 per unit + 1 per 4
adults)                     All uses               bedrooms
Adult care home (13+
adults)
Boarding house
Child care home (3 to 8
children)                   All uses               1 per employee
Child care center (9+
children)
                                                   6 per classroom + 1 per 300
College                     - -                    SF of office area + 1 per 5
                                                   seats in any auditorium or
                                                   similar facility
Civic club                  - -                    1 per 500 SF of GFA
Hospital                    - -                    1 per 2  beds
Museum, library             - -                    1 per 200 SF of GFA
Nursing home                - -                    1 per 5 beds
Park, open area*            All uses               As determined by Planning
                                                   Director
Place of worship            - -                    1 per 8 seats in largest
                                                   assembly room
Public safety facility      - -                    As determined by Planning
                                                   Director
                                                   1 per classroom + 1 per 300
                                                   SF of office area
School (public or private)  Elementary/Junior High 6 per classroom + 1 per 300
                            High School            SF of office area + 1 per 5
                                                   seats in any auditorium or
                                                   similar facility
                                                   6 per classroom + 1 per 300
Technical, trade or         - -                    SF of office area + 1 per 5
business school                                    seats in any auditorium or
                                                   similar facility
Utility, minor*             All uses               1 per 1,000 SF of GFA
Utility, major*             All uses               1 per 1,000 SF of GFA
Wireless telecommunications - -                    As determined by Planning
facility                                           Director
Commercial Uses
Adult-oriented business     - -                    1 per 100 SF of seating area
Agriculture (involving      All uses               As determined by Planning
livestock)*                                        Director
Commercial Uses (Con’td)
Commercial Uses (Con’td)
Agriculture (sales and          All uses       As determined by Planning
processing)*                                   Director
Artist studio, gallery          - -            1 per 400 SF of GFA
Bed and Breakfast               - -            1 per unit + 1 per guest room
Cemetery                        - -            As determined by Planning
                                               Director
Club, private                   - -            1 per 500 SF of GFA
Contractor’s office           - -            1 per 1,000 SF of GFA
Funeral home                    - -            1 per 8 seats in largest
                                               assembly room
Gas station with convenience    - -            1 per 200 SF of GFA
retail
                                               1 per guest room + 200 SF of
Hotel, motel                    - -            conference/banquet/restauran t
                                               area
Indoor recreation (commercial)* Bowling alley  3 per lane
                                All other uses 1 per 250 SF of GFA
Kennel                          - -            1 per 250 SF of GFA of office
                                               area
Manufacturing, limited*         All uses       1 per 1,000 SF of GFA
Newspaper publisher             All uses       1 per 1,000 SF of GFA
Office, general*                Bank           1 per 250 SF of GFA
                                All other uses 1 per 400 SF of GFA
Office, medical*                All uses       1 per 250 SF of GFA
                                Campground     1 per campsite
Outdoor recreation (commercial) Golf course    2 per hole + 1 per 200 FGA
                                All other uses As determined by Planning
                                               Director
Radio or television studio      - -            1 per 300 SF of GFA
Recreational club, private      - -            1 per 500 SF of GFA
Restaurant                      - -            1 per 100 SF of GFA
Retail, neighborhood*           All uses       1 per 200 SF of GFA
Retail, general*                All uses       1 per 200 SF of GFA
Self-storage facility           - -            Minimum 5 + 1 per 100 storage
                                               units
Service, neighborhood*          All uses       1 per 200 SF of GFA
Service, general*               All uses       1 per 200 SF of GFA
Vehicle repair*                 All uses       3 per service bay
Vehicle sales*                  All uses       1 per 500 SF of GFA
Vehicle service*                Car wash       1 per wash bay
                                All other uses 3 per bay
Veterinarian, animal hospital   - -            1 per 250 SF of GFA
Warehouse and freight movement* All uses       1 per 1,000 SF of GFA
 
 
Industrial Uses
Crematorium               - -      1 per 8 seats in largest assembly room
Manufacturing, general*   All uses 1 per 1,000 SF of GFA
Manufacturing, heavy*     All uses 1 per 1,000 SF of GFA
Research and development* All uses 1 per 1,000 SF of GFA
Waste service*            All uses 1 per 500 SF of GFA + 1 per 5,000 SF of
                                   outside storage area
 
   * = Group of Uses (§
156.300)
         (b)   Maximum.
            1.   No use shall provide more than 110% of the required parking
shown in the table above unless any parking above the 110% threshold is
pervious or is provided through use of structured parking.
            2.   Where a project is intended to be developed in phases, the
Planning Board may approve development of a parking area intended to serve
current and future development.
         (c)   Modifications. The Planning Director may reduce the required
number of spaces by up to 5% if for reasons of topography, mixes of uses, ride
sharing programs, availability of transit, or other conditions specific to the
site, provided the reduction in the required number of parking spaces satisfies
the intent of this chapter.
      (3)   Design standards.
         (a)   Kenly general design guidelines. Additional considerations may
be outlined in the Kenly General Design Guidelines.
         (b)   Dimensions.
            1.   Parking space sizes shall be governed by the following
dimensions:
               Parallel stall                  20 feet x 9 feet
               Angle stall                  19 feet x 9 feet
               Ninety-degree stall               19 feet x 9 feet
               Handicapped stall               19 feet x 12.5 feet
            2.   Minimum aisle widths shall be as follows:
 
             Aisle Width in Feet
Parking Angle One-Way Traffic Two-Way Traffic
0-15          12              24 (0 degrees only)
16-37 degrees 11              - -
38-57 degrees 13              - -
58-74 degrees 18              - -
75-90 degrees 24              32
 
            3.   The maximum grade permitted for any required parking shall not
exceed 8%.
            4.   Parking spaces using geometric standards other than those
specified above may be approved if developed and sealed by a registered
engineer with expertise in parking facility design subject to a determination
by the Public Works Director, that the proposed facility will satisfy off-
street parking requirements as adequately as would a facility using those
specified above.
         (c)   Surfacing.
            1.   Surfacing required. Except as provided below, where off-street
facilities are provided for parking or any other vehicular use area, they shall
be surfaced with asphalt bituminous, concrete or dustless material approved by
the Public Works Director and shall be maintained in a smooth, well-graded
condition.
            2.   Grass lawn parking.
               a.   Grass lawn or other pervious parking surfaces may be
permitted for specific uses as set forth below, provided they are approved by
the Public Works Director. Where provided, such alternative parking surfaces
shall be maintained in a smooth, well-graded condition. If parking demand is
such that the grass or lawn is caused to be damaged or destroyed to the extent
that it ceases to grow, then paving of such an area in accordance with this
section may be required.
               b.   All driveways, access aisles and parking spaces (excluding
handicapped) may be surfaced with grass lawn for the following:
                  (i)   Uses which require parking on an average of less than 5
days per week during a month;
                  (ii)   Schools and churches; and
                  (iii)   Parks, playgrounds, ballfields, football and baseball
stadiums, fairgrounds, and other similar outdoor recreation areas.
         (d)   Landscaping. Off-street parking areas in excess of 1,500 square
feet or 5 spaces shall provide landscaped areas in accordance with the
following requirements.
            1.   Perimeter screening.
               a.   All parking areas and other vehicular use areas with
frontage on any portion of an existing public right-of-of way shall provide a
parking buffer as set forth in §
156.402.
               b.   The perimeter of all parking areas and other vehicular use
areas adjacent to residentially-zoned property shall provide a Class C buffer
(see §
156.402).
            2.   Interior landscaping.
               a.   Interior islands. An interior landscaped island shall be
provided for every 10 spaces. Each island shall contain a minimum of 200 square
feet with a minimum width of 8 feet inside the curb and include a minimum of 1
tree with a minimum caliper of 2½ inches. Planting islands shall be evenly
distributed throughout the parking area, with no parking space located more
than 100 feet from a planting island. Interior islands may be consolidated or
intervals may be expanded in order to preserve existing trees where approved by
the Planning Director.
               b.   Terminal islands. All rows of spaces shall terminate in a
curbed landscaped island. Each island shall conform to the specifications
described in division a. above.
               c.   Median islands. A median island with a minimum width of 8
feet inside the curb shall be sited between every 6 single parking rows and
along primary internal and external access drives. Median intervals may be
expanded in order to preserve existing trees, where approved by the Planning
Director.
         (e)   Markings. Each parking stall shall be marked off and maintained
so as to be distinguishable.
         (f)   Lighting. Where off-street facilities are provided for parking
or any other vehicular use area adequate outdoor lighting shall be provided.
Lighting shall be so arranged as to direct the light and glare away from
streets and adjacent property (see §
156.404).
         (g)   Yards. All parking lots shall observe a minimum front yard of
not less than 5 feet, and a side yard on a corner lot of not less than 5 feet.
Parking lots in residential districts shall have front yards of not less than
15 feet and side and rear yards of not less than 5 feet.
         (h)   Curbs.
            1.   All landscaping in or adjacent to a vehicular use area shall
be protected from vehicular damage by a raised concrete curb 6 inches in height
or equivalent barrier, however, the barrier need not be continuous.
            2.   Landscaped areas adjacent to parking areas shall be landscaped
so that no plant material greater that 12 inches in height will be located
within 2 feet of the curb or other protective barrier.
         (i)   Separation from walkways and streets. In the event any parking
area abuts a walkway, sidewalk, or street, the parking area shall be separated
by curbing or other protective device with a minimum distance of 3½ feet
between the protective device and the edge of the walkway.
         (j)   Drainage. Parking lots shall not drain onto or across public
sidewalks or into adjacent property, except into a natural watercourse or a
drainage easement. In already developed areas where this condition would be
impossible to meet, the Public Works Director may exempt the applicant from
this requirement, provided that adequate provision is made for drainage.
         (k)   Entrances and exits. On all corner lots, all vehicular openings
shall be located at least 20 feet from the point of intersection of established
right-of-way lines. No entrance and exit, whether or not on a corner lot, shall
exceed 30 feet in width at the property line or 40 feet in width at the curb
line. There shall be a minimum distance between driveways of 25 feet, measured
along the curb line, unless such driveways are less than 5 feet apart.
      (4)   Alternative parking plans.
         (a)   General. The Planning Board may modify the parking requirements
of this section (beyond that permitted by §
156.401) where applicant-submitted parking data, prepared and sealed by a
registered engineer in the State North of Carolina with transportation
expertise, illustrates that the standards of this section do not accurately
apply to a specific development. The data submitted for an alternative parking
plan shall include, at a minimum, the size and type of the proposed
development, the mix of uses, the anticipated rate of parking turnover and the
anticipated peak parking and traffic loads of all uses.
         (b)   On-street parking. The Planning Director may approve on-street
parking spaces located immediately abutting the subject parcel, entirely within
the extension of the side lot lines into the roadway, and not within any
required clear sight triangle may be counted toward meeting off-street parking
requirements.
         (c)   Off-site parking. The Planning Director may approve the location
of required off-street parking spaces on a separate lot from the lot on which
the principal use is located if the off-site parking complies with all of the
following standards.
            1.   Ineligible activities. Off-site parking may not be used to
satisfy the off-street parking requirements for residential uses (except for
guest parking), as well as convenience stores or other convenience-oriented
uses. Required parking spaces reserved for persons with disabilities may not be
located off-site.
            2.   Location. Off-site parking spaces shall be located within 750
feet from the primary entrance of the use served unless shuttle bus service is
provided to the remote parking area. Off-site parking may not be separated from
the use that it serves by a street right-of-way with a width of more than 80
feet unless a grade-separated pedestrian walkway is provided, or other traffic
control or shuttle bus service is provided to the off-site parking area.
            3.   Zoning classification. Off-site parking areas serving uses
located in non-residential districts shall be located in non-residential
districts. Off-site parking areas serving uses located in residential districts
may be located in residential or non-residential districts.
            4.   Agreement.
               a.   In the event that an off-site parking area is not under the
same ownership as the principal use served, a written agreement between the
record owners shall be required.
               b.   The owner of the off-site parking area shall enter into a
written agreement with the town, with enforcement running to the town,
providing that the land comprising the parking area shall never be disposed of
except in conjunction with the sale of the building which the parking area
serves so long as the facilities are required; and that the owner agrees to
bear the expense of recording the agreement and such agreement shall bind his
or her heirs, successors, and assigns.
               c.   An off-site parking agreement may be rescinded only if all
required off-street parking spaces will be provided in accordance with this
section.
         (d)   Shared parking. The Planning Director may allow shared parking
facilities if the shared parking complies with all of the following standards:
            1.   Ineligible activities. Shared parking may not be used to
satisfy the off-street parking standards for upper-story residential uses.
Required parking spaces reserved for persons with disabilities may not be
located off-site.
            2.   Location. Shared parking spaces shall be located within 750
feet of the primary entrance of all uses served, unless shuttle bus service is
provided to the parking area.
            3.   Zoning classification. Shared parking areas serving uses
located in non-residential districts shall be located in non-residential
districts. Shared parking areas serving uses located in residential districts
may be located in residential or non-residential districts. Shared parking
areas shall require the same or a more intensive zoning classification than
that required for the most intensive of the uses served by the shared parking
area.
            4.   Shared parking study. Applicants wishing to use shared parking
as a means of satisfying off-street parking requirements shall submit a shared
parking analysis to the Planning Director that clearly demonstrates the
feasibility of shared parking. The study shall be provided in a form
established by the Planning Director and made available to the public. It shall
address, at minimum, the size and type of the proposed development, the
composition of tenants, the anticipated rate of parking turnover and the
anticipated peak parking and traffic loads for all uses that will be sharing
off-street parking spaces.
            5.   Agreement.
               a.   A shared parking plan will be enforced through written
agreement among all owners of record. An attested copy of the agreement between
the owners of record shall be submitted to the Planning Director on forms made
available by the Planning Director.
               b.   A shared parking agreement may be rescinded only if all
required off-street parking spaces will be provided in accordance with this
section.
         (e)   Valet parking. The Planning Director may approve valet parking
as a means of satisfying otherwise applicable off-street parking requirements
where all of the following standards have been met:
            1.   Adequate assurance of the continued operation of the valet
parking is provided, such as a contractual agreement for valet services or the
tenant's affidavit agreeing to provide such services;
            2.   An equivalent number of valet spaces are available to replace
the required parking spaces. Such valet spaces do not require individual
striping, and may take into account the tandem or mass parking of vehicles. All
valet parking areas visible from the public right-of-way shall meet the
requirements of §
156.402.
            3.   Valet parking drop-off locations shall meet the requirements
of §
156.401; and
            4.   The design of the valet parking shall not cause customers who
do not use the valet service to park off-premise or cause queuing in the right-
of-way.
         (f)   Recording of approved plans. An attested copy of an approved
alternative parking plan shall be recorded in the deed records for Johnston
County on forms made available by the Planning Director. An alternative parking
plan may be amended by following the same procedure required for  the original
approval. The applicant shall provide proof of recording prior to approval of
the certificate of occupancy.
         (g)   Violations. Violations of an approved alternative parking plan
constitute a violation of this chapter and will be subject to the enforcement
and penalty provisions of §
156.720.
   (D)   Off-street stacking requirements. The following vehicle stacking
standards shall apply unless otherwise expressly approved by the Public Works
Director. The Public Works Director may require additional stacking spaces
where trip generation rates suggest that additional spaces will be needed.
      (1)   Minimum number of spaces. Off-street stacking spaces shall be
provided as follows:
 Minimum Spaces Measured From
                                     Minimum Spaces Measured From
Automated teller machine             3              Machine
Bank teller lane                     4              Teller or window
Car lubrication stall                2              Entrance to stall
Car wash stall, automated            4              Entrance to wash bay
Car wash stall, hand-operated        3              Entrance to wash bay
Day care drop off                    3              Passenger loading area
Gasoline pump island                 2              Pump island
Parking area, controlled entrance    4              Key code box
Restaurant drive-thru                6              Order box
Restaurant drive-thru                4              Order box to pick-up window
Valet parking                        3              Valet stand
School drop-off (public and private) Determined by Public Works Director
                                     Determined by Public Works Director
Other
 
      (2)   Design and layout. Required stacking spaces are subject to the
following design and layout standards:
         (a)   Dimensions. Stacking spaces shall be a minimum of 8 feet by 20
feet in size.
         (b)   Location. Stacking spaces shall not impede on- or off-site
traffic movements or movements into or out of off-street parking spaces.
         (c)   Design. Stacking spaces shall be separated from other internal
driveways by raised medians if deemed necessary by the Public Works Director
for traffic movement and safety.
   (E)   Off-street loading requirements.
      (1)   Loading facilities required.
         (a)   As determined by the Planning Director, off-street loading
facilities shall be required for uses that regularly handle large quantities of
goods. Loading facilities shall be of sufficient quantity to adequately serve
the proposed use.
         (b)   Any vehicle sales or rental facility or similar use requiring
delivery of vehicles by truck shall demonstrate adequate on-site area exists
for the loading and unloading of such trucks.
         (c)   Any convenience store or similar use requiring deliveries by
truck shall demonstrate adequate on-site area exists for the loading and
unloading of such trucks.
      (2)   Design and layout.
         (a)   Loading and unloading activity shall not be permitted in any
public right-of-way. In no case shall loading and unloading activity encroach
on or interfere with the public use of streets, sidewalks, and lanes by
automotive vehicles or pedestrians. Adequate space shall  be made available for
the unloading and loading of goods, materials, items or stock for delivery and
shipping.
         (b)   Where off-street loading facilities are provided, they shall be
not less than 15 feet in width by 40 feet in length, with not less than 15 feet
of vertical clearance.
         (c)   Hours of loading and unloading operation adjacent to ground
floor residential uses shall be limited between the hours of 6:30 a.m. and 10:
00 p.m. Loading  docks  shall  be  signed  to indicate "no idling."
      (3)   Screening. All loading areas shall be screened in accordance with §
156.402.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.402  LANDSCAPING, SCREENING AND BUFFERING.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   Unless specifically exempt, all existing and proposed development
for which site plan approval is required (see §
156.707) shall meet the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Buildings and structures lawfully existing as of the effective date
of this chapter may be redeveloped, renovated or repaired without providing or
modifying landscaping, screening, and buffering in conformance with this
section, provided there is no increase in gross floor area in such building or
structure or impervious area on the site.
      (3)   The maintenance standards in §
156.402 shall apply as of the effective date of this chapter to all existing
development and new construction.
      (4)   Where a building or structure existed as of the effective date of
this chapter, and such building or structure is enlarged in gross floor area or
impervious area by 10% or 2,000 square feet, whichever is less, landscaping,
screenings, and buffering as specified in this section shall be provided.
      (5)   In the Central Business District, the Planning Director may allow a
new use to be established, even if all landscaping, screening, and buffering
requirements cannot be met for the new use, provided that as much landscaping,
screening and buffering as can reasonably be provided is provided by the use.
   (B)   Landscape plan required.
      (1)   A landscape plan shall submitted in conjunction with a required
site plan (see §
156.707).
      (2)   A registered landscape architect shall prepare all landscape plans,
except where expressly exempted by the Planning Director. The landscape
treatment shall adequately detail the requirements of this section and any
additional considerations set forth in the Kenly General Design Guidelines.
   (C)   How to use this section. This section is divided into the following:
      Part 1. Landscaped Areas:                §
156.402(D)
      Part 2. Buffers:                   §
156.402(E)
      Part 3. Street Yard Trees:                §
156.402(F)
      Part 4. Screening:                  §
156.402(G)
      Part 5. General Landscaping, Screening and Buffering Provisions:   
                               §
156.402(H)
   (D)   Landscaped areas. All site plans requiring landscaping in accordance
with this section shall have a landscape plan designed to provide landscaping
in the following manner. These standards shall not apply in the B-1 District.
      (1)   Twenty percent of the total lot area shall be landscaped.
      (2)   No less than 1 canopy tree, 1 understory tree, and 2 shrubs shall
be planted for each 1,000 square feet of landscape area required. Trees need to
be evenly planted throughout the landscaped area, but may be staggered or
clustered as necessary to maximize visual and screening objectives, and to meet
the needs of the particular species of plants for root space, water, light, and
air circulation. At the time of planting all canopy trees shall be at least 6
feet in height, all understory trees shall be at least 4 feet in height, and
all shrubs shall be at least 1 foot in height.
      (3)   Landscape areas may include interior landscaping in parking lots
and other vehicular use areas (see §
156.401C). However, the district boundary buffer requirements of division(E)(2)
(c) below shall be provided completely, as required, in addition to these
requirements. Resource conservation areas may be used to satisfy a maximum of
40% of the total required landscaped area.
   (E)   Buffers.
      (1)   Buffer defined. A buffer is a specified land area, located parallel
to and within the outer perimeter of a lot and extending to the lot line,
together with the planting and landscaping required on the land. A buffer may
also contain, or be required to contain, a barrier such as a berm or wall where
such additional screening is necessary to achieve the desired level of
buffering between various land use activities. A buffer is not intended to be
commensurate with the term "yard" or "setback."
      (2)   Buffer types. There are 4 types of required buffers that may occur
on any given parcel (for the specific width and plant material for each buffer
classification see division (3) below).
         (a)   Street buffers.
            1.   All new development with frontage on a commercial street or
designated minor thoroughfare shall provide a Class A buffer as set forth in
division (3) below.
            2.   Double frontage lots abutting a collector street or
residential collector street shall provide a Class A buffer along the entire
rear yard frontage.
         (b)   Parking buffers.
            1.   The perimeter of all parking areas and other vehicular use
areas with frontage on any portion of an existing public right-of-way shall be
screened by either a berm, a continuous landscaped hedge, a decorative masonry
wall or any combination thereof.
            2.   At the time of installation, such screening shall be at least
30 inches in height. Any vegetative screen shall reach a maximum height of 36
inches within 2 years of planting.
            3.   No such buffer shall be required along an alley.
         (c)   District boundary buffers.
            1.   Required buffers. Perimeter compatibility is required along
the boundaries of all incompatible zoning districts. The following table shall
be used to determine the required buffer classification between adjacent
districts.
Subject Property Adjacent Property District
Subject Property Adjacent Property District
District         R-E R-10 R-8 R-6 O-R O-I B-1 B-2 B-3 I-1 I-2
R-E              - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
R-10             A   - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
R-8              B   A    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
R-6              B   A    A   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
O-R              B   A    A   A   - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
O-I              B   B    B   B   A   - - - - - - - - - - - -
B-1              B   B    B   B   B   B   - - B   - - - - - -
B-2              B   B    B   B   B   B   - - - - - - - - - -
B-3              C   C    C   C   C   B   B   B   - - - - - -
I-1              C   C    C   C   C   C   C   C   B   - - - -
I-2              C   C    C   C   C   C   C   C   B   - - - -
 
            2.   Credit for existing plant material. Credit for existing plant
material shall be allocated on a one-for-one basis for canopy trees, understory
trees or shrubs. The size of material shall not be taken into account, except
where such material is below the required minimum planting size.
         (d)   Project boundary buffers. The following project boundary buffers
have been established to mitigate the effect of specific types of development
on adjacent properties. Where project boundaries coincide with district
boundaries the following project boundary buffers shall apply. A project
boundary buffer shall not be required along a major thoroughfare, collector
street, and minor thoroughfare (see division (a) above).
            1.   Open space residential subdivision. A buffer shall be required
along all project boundaries of an open space subdivision (see §
156.203).
            2.   Planned development. A buffer shall be required along all
project boundaries of a planned development  (see §
156.203).
            3.   Manufactured home park. A buffer shall be required along all
project boundaries of a manufactured home park (see §
156.302).
      (3)   Buffer classifications.
         (a)   The following table establishes the specific width and plant
material for a variety of buffer classifications. The applicant is free to
choose from each alternative (1, 2, or 3) in the respective buffer
classification. Buffers planted below overhead utility lines shall apply any of
the allowed buffer alternatives, except that understory trees shall replace any
canopy trees at a rate of 2 understory trees per required canopy tree. The
plantings below are intentionally over-planted at maturity, in order to provide
an immediate beneficial impact.
         (b)   As determined by the Planning Director, a wall or berm meeting
the standards in §
156.402 may be substituted in lieu of some of the required shrubs in buffer
types A and B. A wall or berm is required in all Type C buffers.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-65.png]
 
      (4)   Location of buffer.
         (a)   Buffers shall be located within the outer perimeter of a lot or
parcel, parallel to and extending to the lot or parcel boundary line. Buffers
shall not be located on any portion of an existing, dedicated or reserved
public or private street or right-of-way.
         (b)   Except as provided below, the required buffer shall be provided
along the entire frontage abutting the existing, dedicated or reserved public
or private street or right-of-way, district boundary, or project boundary, as
applicable.
         (c)   A buffer may be interrupted in order to provide access
(pedestrian or vehicular) to adjacent parcels or public right-of-way.
      (5)   Design variations. While the buffer depth is normally calculated as
parallel to the property line, design variations may be permitted and are
calculated on the average depth of the buffer per 100 feet or portion of
buffer. The minimum depth of the buffer at any one point shall not be less than
½ the required depth of the buffer chosen. Maximum depth for the purposes of
installing required landscaping, or receiving credit for existing vegetation,
shall not be more than 1½ the required depth of the buffer chosen.
      (6)   Plant and structure location within buffer. The placement of
required plants and structures shall be the decision of the applicant, except 
that the following requirements shall be satisfied:
         (a)   Plant materials shall be located so as to achieve the maximum
level of protection. Plant material shall meet the buffer requirements every
100 feet.
         (b)   Canopy trees shall be located no closer than 5 feet from any
structure. Understory trees shall be planted no closer than 3 feet from any
structure.
         (c)   Buffer areas not retained in native habitat shall be seeded or
sodded with lawn, established with ground cover, or mulched with organic mulch.
No turf grass shall be planted under the dripline of trees. Inorganic ground
cover shall not exceed 20% of the total required area of the buffer.
      (7)   Planting in easements.
         (a)   No buffer shall be planted in wet retention ponds or drainage
easements.
         (b)   Trees and shrubs shall be installed a minimum of 5 feet away
from the flow line of a swale.
         (c)   Existing trees may remain in dry retention ponds provided that
the natural grade is undisturbed to the tree line, species are planted that are
adapted to seasonal flooding and the pond is adequately maintained.
         (d)   Trees may be planted in underground utility easements with the
Planning Director approval, provided the root structure of the proposed tree is
not anticipated to extend more than 3 feet below the ground. Shrubs may be
planted, provided they are only within the outer 3 feet of the easement. Where
such trees and shrubs are planted, the property owner shall be responsible for
replacement of such required vegetation if maintenance or other utility
requirements require their temporary removal.
         (e)   A minimum buffer width of 5 feet, or at least half the minimum
required buffer width, shall be provided outside of any required easements. The
majority of buffer plantings and all structures shall be located outside the
easements.
      (8)   Permitted structures in buffer area.
         (a)   Walls. Where walls are placed within any required buffer area,
they shall meet the following requirements:
            1.   Walls shall be a minimum of 3 feet and a maximum of 6 feet in
height;
            2.   Walls shall be constructed of 1 or a combination of the
following materials: stucco over concrete block, brick, stone, split-faced
block or glass block in a structurally safe and attractive condition.
Alternative walls (including vinyl, EIFS or other similar systems) may be
permitted with the approval of the Planning Director. No walls of exposed
concrete block are permitted, whether painted or not;
            3.   No wall shall be located within any required drainage, utility
or similar easement;
            4.   The applicant shall be required to demonstrate provision for
access and maintenance  of landscaping and the wall structure at the time of
landscape plan approval; and
            5.   Breaks in the wall may be provided for pedestrian connections
to adjacent developments.
         (b)   Berms. Where berms are placed within any required buffer area,
they shall meet the following requirements:
            1.   Berms shall have a minimum average height of 2½ feet with side
slopes of not less than 4 feet horizontal for each 1 foot vertical; and
            2.   Slopes in excess of 4 feet horizontal for each 1 foot vertical
may be permitted if sufficient erosion control methods are taken and deemed by
the Public Works Director to be maintainable.
         (c)   Fences.
            1.   Fences in accordance with §
156.402 may be constructed in a required buffer, however, no reduction in
buffer width shall be provided based on the provision of a fence.
            2.   Fences shall be a minimum of 3 feet and a maximum of 6 feet in
height.
            3.   Fences shall be constructed of high quality materials, such as
treated wood and wrought iron. Chain-link fences shall not be permitted.
            4.   Breaks in the fence may be provided for pedestrian connections
to adjacent developments.
            5.   Fences shall be maintained in a structurally safe and
attractive condition and with finished faces and plantings located towards the
adjacent property with at least 1 upright shrub for every 6 linear feet of
fence length.
            6.   Any fence constructed in a buffer shall be capable of
withstanding a 30 pound per square foot horizontal wind load from any
direction.
      (9)   Permitted use of buffer area. A buffer area shall not be used for
any principal building or use, accessory building or use, vehicle use area or
storage area except as specifically permitted below.
         (a)   A buffer may be used for passive recreation and picnic
facilities; and it may contain pedestrian or bike trails, provided that:
            1.   Trails may be incorporated provided adequate width (minimum 15
feet) is added to the required buffer width to accommodate both the trail and
the required buffer plantings. Buffers with trails may also count toward the
provision of recreation and open space for the development.
            2.   No existing plant material shall be eliminated, other than
nuisance exotics; and
            3.   All other requirements of this section shall be met.
         (b)   Other appurtenances which require high visibility and easy
access, such as fire hydrants, public and emergency telephones, mail boxes and
bus shelters or benches, are also permitted in a buffer. No screening of such
appurtenances shall be required.
         (c)   A required buffer is encouraged to retain areas of native
habitat and may incorporate water resources including stormwater detention or
retention facilities. However a minimum 10-foot contiguous width of the buffer
shall be preserved as a planting area without stormwater facilities.
      (10)   Ownership of buffers. Buffers may remain in the ownership of the
original applicant; they may be subjected to deed restrictions and subsequently
be freely conveyed; or they may be transferred to any consenting grantees, such
as the town, a land conservancy or land trust, or homeowners association. Any
such conveyance shall adequately guarantee the protection and maintenance of
the buffer in accordance with the provisions of this section.
      (11)   Alternative compliance.
         (a)   The buffer requirements may be modified by the Planning Board
upon a finding that a modification would be consistent with the purpose of this
chapter, this section and the adopted plans and policies of the town; that such
modification would not adversely affect the land use compatibility or public
interest; and that the subject parcel or modified buffer complies with 1 or
more of the following criteria:
            1.   The buffer is parallel and adjacent to an existing utility or
drainage easement of at least 100 feet in width;
            2.   The buffer is between uses that are to be developed under a
common development plan or series of development plans;
            3.   The buffer is adjacent to a property that has a joint use
agreement with the subject parcel under;
            4.   The buffer is parallel and adjacent to an existing railroad
right-of-way; or
            5.   The topography of the parcel is such that buffering would not
be effective.
         (b)   Financial hardship due to meeting the requirements of this
section shall not be sufficient justification for alternative compliance.
   (F)   Street yard trees.
      (1)   Street yard trees shall be required along all collector streets,
residential collector streets, residential streets and cul-de-sac streets at
the rate of 1 canopy tree per lot or 1 canopy tree for every 40 linear feet
(spaced a maximum of 50 feet part).
      (2)   All street yard trees shall be a minimum of 2½ caliper inches at
time of planting and shall be planted no less than 5 feet or more than 15 feet
from the back of the sidewalk.
      (3)   Credit shall be provided for any existing tree with a minimum of 6
inches that is preserved within the planting strip at rate of 1 preserved tree
for 2 required street yard trees.
      (4)   Double frontage lots abutting a collector street or residential
collector street shall provide a Class A buffer along the entire rear yard
frontage.
   (G)   Screening.
      (1)   Drive-thru facilities. Drive-thru windows and lanes shall be
designed to adhere to the following standards:
         (a)   Drive-thru windows and lanes placed between the right-of-way and
the associated building shall require landscape plantings installed and
maintained along the entire length of the drive-thru lane, located between the
drive-thru lane and the adjacent right-of-way.
         (b)   Such screening shall be a compact evergreen hedge or other type
of dense foliage. At the time of installation, such screening shall be at least
36 inches in height and shall reach a height of 48 inches within 2 years of
planting.
         (c)   No drive-thru window shall be permitted on the side of a
building adjacent to any residential district.
      (2)   Service areas.
         (a)   Trash collection, trash compaction, recycling collection and
other similar service areas  shall be located on the side or rear of the
building and shall be effectively screened from view from residential
properties or public rights-of-way.
         (b)   Screening enclosures shall be fully enclosed by opaque walls or
fences at least 8 feet high with self-closing access doors and shall be
constructed of the same materials as the primary building.
         (c)   All service areas shall be limited to the area shown on an
approved site plan.
         (d)   All service areas shall be located a minimum of 50 feet away
from any residentially-zoned property line.
      (3)   Loading areas. Loading areas shall be subject to the following
screening requirements:
         (a)   Provide a minimum 100% year-round screen of all loading areas
visible from residential properties or public rights-of-way.
         (b)   This screen shall consist of berms, walls, fences, plant
material or combination totaling 8 feet in height at installation or completion
of construction. Wall or fence materials shall be compatible with the primary
structure.
         (c)   Loading docks not in an I-1 or I-2 district shall be located at
the side or rear of buildings a minimum of 50 feet away from any residentially-
zoned property, unless the loading area is wholly within a closed building.
      (4)   Mechanical equipment.
         (a)   All roof, ground and wall mounted mechanical equipment (e.g. air
handling equipment, compressors, duct work, transformers and elevator
equipment) shall be screened from view from residential properties or public
rights-of-way at ground level of the property line.
         (b)   Roof-mounted mechanical equipment shall be shielded from view on
all sides. Screening shall consist of materials consistent with the primary
building materials, and may include metal screening or louvers which are
painted to blend with the primary structure.
         (c)   Wall or ground-mounted equipment screening shall be constructed
of:
            1.   Planting screens;
            2.   Brick, stone, reinforced concrete, or other similar masonry
materials; or
            3.   Redwood, cedar, preservative pressure treated wood, or other
similar materials.
      (5)   Utilities. Above-ground utilities and appurtenances to underground
utilities which require above-ground installation shall be screened by a
continuous planting of shrubs, with a minimum mature height equal to that of
the utility structure. Required access ways to these utilities are exempt from
the screening provisions.
      (6)   Fencing and walls.
         (a)   A fence or wall not more than 6 feet in height may be installed
along any side and rear lot line. A fence or wall in any required front yard
shall not exceed 4 feet in height.
         (b)   Fences and walls shall be constructed of high quality materials,
such as decorative blocks, brick, stone, treated wood and wrought iron. Chain-
link fences and barbed wire or concertina wire shall not be permitted.
         (c)   Breaks in the fence or wall may be provided for pedestrian
connections to adjacent developments.
         (d)   The maximum length of a continuous, unbroken and uninterrupted
fence or wall plane  shall be 100 feet. Breaks shall be provided through the
use of columns, landscaped areas, transparent sections and a change in
material.
   (H)   General landscaping, screening and buffering provisions.
      (1)   Design, installation and establishment.
         (a)   Plant material.
            1.   Plant material shall be chosen from the lists of recommended
plant species contained in the Kenly General Design Guidelines. Plant materials
shall be reviewed for suitability with regard to the eventual size and spread,
susceptibility to diseases and pests, and appropriateness to existing soil,
climate and site conditions. Plant materials that vary from this list may be
used with the approval of the Planning Board.
            2.   The preferred plant list shall be used to define the species
of trees and shrubs deemed to be canopy trees, understory trees and shrubs. The
lists may be expanded but are intended to provide guidance in selecting
predominately hardy North Carolina native species.
         (b)   Cold hardy and drought tolerant plants. Plantings shall be cold
hardy for the specific location where they are to be planted. Trees and shrubs
shall be salt tolerant and drought tolerant and able to survive on natural
rainfall once established with no loss of health.
         (c)   Soils. Planting areas shall have uncompact coarse loam that is a
minimum of 12 inches deep. Soils shall be appreciably free of gravel, stones,
rubble or trash. All compacted soil, contaminated soil or road base fill shall
be removed.
         (d)   Issuance of certificate of occupancy. The Code Enforcement
Officer may not issue a permanent certificate of occupancy for an approved site
plan or part thereof, until all seeding, trees, and plant material have been
placed in accordance with the approved site plan and requirements of this
section. A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued for a period of 30
days under circumstances that would affect the seeding and planting of the
site, or until the proper planting season is reached to complete the
landscaping requirements, and may be extended up to 90 days upon request to the
Code Enforcement Officer.
      (2)   Requirements for maintaining planted areas.
         (a)   Responsibility. The responsibility for maintenance of a planted
area shall remain with the owner, his or her successors, heirs, assignees or
any consenting grantee. Maintenance is required in order to ensure the proper
functioning of a planted area.
         (b)   Maintenance.
            1.   All plantings shall be maintained in an attractive and healthy
condition. Maintenance shall include, but not be limited to, watering,
mulching, fertilizing and pest management, mowing, weeding, removal of litter
and dead plant material, and necessary pruning and trimming.
            2.   Necessary pruning and trimming shall be in accordance with the
American National Standards for Tree Care Operations: Tree Shrub and Other
Woody Plant Maintenance - Standards Practices (Pruning), and shall not be
interpreted to include topping of  trees through removal of crown material or
the central leader, or any other similarly severe procedures such as
lollipopping or meatballing that cause irreparable harm to the natural form of
the tree, except where such procedures are necessary to maintain public
overhead utilities. Any such activity shall be a violation of this chapter.
Additional plant material shall be required to replace or supplement the
damaged plant material.
            3.   Dead or diseased plantings shall be removed. Replacement
plantings shall be provided for any required plants which die or are removed
for any reason and shall meet all minimum standards and conform to these
regulations.
            4.   Natural water courses shall be maintained in a natural
condition.
            5.   A water source shall be supplied within 50 feet of any
planting requiring continuing watering. Where non-native or non-drought
tolerant native vegetation is incorporated an irrigation system shall be
required. Irrigation systems shall meet the standards of the town.
            6.   Landscape structural features such as walls, fences, berms or
water features shall be maintained in a structurally safe and attractive
condition.
            7.   Where other uses, including pedestrian, bike or other trails
these uses shall be maintained to provide for their safe use.
         (c)   Failure to maintain. In the event that any owner of a planted
area fails to maintain the planted area according to the standards of this
section, the town shall have the right to recover the cost of enforcement,
including reasonable attorney fees. The town may also, following reasonable
notice and a demand that deficiency of maintenance be corrected, enter the
planted area to take maintenance action. The cost of such maintenance shall be
charged to the party having the primary responsibility for maintenance of the
planted area.
      (3)   Credit for existing plant material.
         (a)   Required planting areas shall incorporate existing natural
vegetation to the  maximum extent feasible. Prior to disturbance of a required
planting area, approval shall be obtained from the town. Where existing
vegetation is inadequate to meet the required planting standards, additional
plant material shall be required.
         (b)   The retention of existing vegetation shall be maximized within
proposed planting areas. Existing native habitat or vegetation located within
planting area that meets the requirements of this section may be counted,
provided such plant material meets the minimum standards of this section. If
the existing vegetation has been credited and is subsequently removed or dies,
it shall be replaced with the appropriate planting material.
         (c)   Credit may be permitted for existing plant material and walls on
adjacent property, provided such items are in a permanently protected area,
including, but not limited to:
            1.   A conservation easement or preserve area on adjacent property;
or
            2.   An existing utility or drainage easement exceeding 100 feet in
width.
      (4)   Tree protection during construction. Existing trees specified on
the landscape plan to remain on the site as a function of fulfilling the
purpose of this section shall be protected from vehicular movement and material
storage over their root spaces during the following construction. An
undisturbed area with a porous surface shall be reserved around a tree, based
on all of the tree as follows, and with no protective distance less than 4 feet
from the base of the tree.
 
Trunk Diameter dbh Area Required
4-10 inches        80 sq. ft.
11-16 inches       180 sq. ft.
17-20 inches       320 sq. ft.
21 inches plus     340 sq. ft.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.403  SIGNS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. Signs are herein regulated in the interest of
promoting traffic safety, safeguarding the public health, facilitating police
and fire protection, preventing adverse community appearance and over-crowding
of the land, and protecting the character of the area in which they are
located. This section is  intended to prevent their over concentration,
improper placement, and excessive height, bulk, and area, in order to maximize
sign legibility and effectiveness, while at the same time preserving community
scenic, economic, and aesthetic values.
   (B)   Elements of a common signage plan. An application for a common signage
plan shall be filed with the Planning Director by utilizing the same form used
for other sign permits. In addition, the applicant shall indicate the standards
of consistency of all signs on the subject property with regard to:
      (1)   Colors: a maximum of 4, including white, may be used. Federal and
state registered trademarks may be employed in addition to the specified
colors, but may not exceed 12 square feet in copy area;
      (2)   Letter/graphics style;
      (3)   Location of each sign;
      (4)   Materials used in sign construction;
      (5)   Maximum dimensions and proportion;
      (6)   Limitation in number of free standing signs to 1 per street
frontage; and
      (7)   Other restrictions imposed by the applicant.
   (C)   Sign types.
      (1)   On-premises signs. A sign that draws attention to or communicates
information about a business, service, commodity, accommodation, attraction, or
other activity that is conducted, sold, or offered at the location on which the
sign is located.
         (a)   Wall/fascia sign. An on-premises sign attached flat to or
mounted away from but parallel to the building wall, projecting no more than 12
inches from the building wall.
         (b)   Projecting sign. An on-premises sign fastened directly to a
supporting building wall, and intersecting the building wall at a right angle.
         (c)   Free standing sign. An on-premises sign that is not directly
attached to, erected on, or supported by a building or other structure having a
principal function other than the support of such sign, but is instead attached
to, erected on, or supported by some structure such as a pole, frame, or other
structure that is not itself a part of the building.
            1.   Ground sign. A free-standing sign attached to the ground with
a clearance of less than 8 inches and not exceeding 48 inches in height.
            2.   Monument sign. A free-standing sign no more than 8 feet in
height and having a ratio of less than 4 to 1 sign width to narrowest width of
support structure. Any sign constructed to the above referenced ratio of
support structure to sign width, but in excess of 8 feet in height, shall be
considered and regulated as a pole sign.
            3.   Pole sign. A free-standing sign attached to the ground by 1 or
more support structures having a ratio of greater than 4 to 1 sign width to
narrowest width of support structure.
         (d)   Awning/marquee/canopy/hanging sign. A sign which is attached
flat to an awning, marquee, or canopy, or hanging from an awning, marquee or
canopy.
         (e)   Window sign. An on-premise sign attached flat but parallel to
the inside of a window, does not include wall/facia signs.
         (f)   Easel. An upright A-frame structure used for displaying
promotional information to the public.
         (g)   Tract identification sign. An on-premises sign intended to
identify a subdivision, church, complex, civic club, fraternal organization, or
community facility, but carrying no commercial message.
      (2)   Off-premises signs. A sign that draws attention to or communicates
information about a business, service, commodity, accommodation, attraction, or
other activity that is conducted, sold, or offered at a location other than the
premises on which the sign is located.
         (a)   Billboard. A sign which describes or calls attention to
products, activities, or services which are not customarily engaged in,
produced, or sold on the premises upon which the sign is located.
      (3)   Temporary signs. A sign that is used in connection with a
circumstance, situation, or event that is designed, intended, or expected to
take place or to be completed within a reasonably short or definite period of
time after the erection of such a sign.
         (a)   Decorative flags or banners. Signs mounted by the town to
utility poles located within the public right-of-way displaying non-commercial
information, specifically holiday decorations and seasonal banners.
         (b)   Promotional banner. An on-premise sign indicating special events
such as grand openings, sales or similar non-permanent activity to be conducted
within the downtown overlay district.
      (4)   Portable signs. A sign that is not directly attached to the ground
or anchored therein by placement in a concrete footing, in holes with compacted
earth or gravel, or other support so as to be adequately affixed to the ground
as a permanent structure.
      (5)   Historic sign. A sign that is 50 years or older, or a sign that is
particularly unique in character, design, or history, or that is part of the
historic character of a business or building.
      (6)   Roof sign. A sign that is attached to the roof of a building that
projects more than 12 inches above the apex of the roof to which it is
attached.
   (D)   General sign regulations.
      (1)   Computation of sign area. Except where specifically addressed, the
area of all signs shall be computed as follows:
         (a)   The area of a wall sign which consists of individual letters
that are erected directly onto a wall is measured by finding the area of the
minimum imaginary rectangle or square which fully encloses all sign words,
copy, or message.
         (b)   The area of a sign with 3 or more sides shall be computed as the
sum of the area of each side designed either to attract attention or
communicate information.
         (c)   The area of any other sign is measured by finding the area of
the minimum imaginary rectangle or square which fully encloses all extremities
of one side of the sign, exclusive of its supports.
      (2)   Construction standards.
         (a)   All signs shall comply with the appropriate provisions of the
North Carolina Building  Code, the National Electric Code, and this chapter.
         (b)   Signs shall be located in such a way that they maintain
sufficient horizontal and vertical clearance of all overhead electrical
conductors in accordance with National Electric Code specifications, provided
that no sign, except governmental signs, shall be installed closer than 10 feet
horizontally or vertically from any conductor or public utility guy wire.
         (c)   In no way shall a sign hinder or obstruct the visibility of the
right-of-way, as defined by §
156.400, either at intersections or points of ingress or egress from parking
lots.
      (3)   Height of sign. The height of a sign shall be measured from the
highest point of the sign or supporting structure to the average grade of the
ground surrounding the sign. For the purposes of this section, the height of a
ground sign or monument sign may be measured from the highest point of the
sign  or supporting structure to the grade of a landscape berm not exceeding 24
inches above the average surrounding ground.
   (E)   Specific sign regulations.
      (1)   On-premises signs. The total amount of on-premises signage area
permitted on any lot shall not exceed 1¼ times the amount of street frontage.
On lots with frontage on more than 1 street, the longest dimension may be used
to calculate the maximum area permitted. When no freestanding sign other than a
ground sign or monument sign is proposed, a 10% increase in permitted sign area
shall be allowed.
         (a)   Wall/facia sign. Including signage or letters affixed to the
inside or outside of a window.
            1.   Size. The maximum size of a wall/facia sign shall not exceed
the limits established in this section. Further, no more than 25% of the area
of any wall or window may be devoted to signage.
            2.   Number. More than 1 wall sign may be erected, provided the
total surface area regulation is not exceeded.
            3.   Setback. Setback requirements do not apply to wall/facia
signs.
            4.   Height. No sign may extend more than 12 inches above parapet
walls or above roof lines of buildings without parapet walls.
            5.   Projection/clearance. No sign may project more than 12 inches
from the building wall. All wall signs shall maintain a clear height of 8 feet
above the ground below, if it projects more than 6 inches from the building
wall to which it is attached.
            6.   Construction. All wall signs shall be fastened directly to the
supporting wall.
            7.   Illumination. Wall signs may be illuminated either internally
or externally, provided that no sign located within 150 feet of a residential
use or district, except in the B-1 District, may be illuminated during the
hours between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m.
            8.   Location. Wall signs may be located in all zoning districts so
long as no illuminated sign is located in any residential district.
         (b)   Projecting signs.
            1.   Size. The maximum area of any single side of a projecting sign
shall be 10 square feet, and such signs shall be limited to 2 sides.
            2.   Number. Not more than 1 projecting sign shall be permitted for
each business establishment.
            3.   Setback. No projecting sign shall project closer than 3 feet
to the curb line.
            4.   Height. No sign shall extend above parapet walls or above roof
lines of buildings without parapet walls, and the top of the sign shall not be
higher than 15 feet above the ground.
            5.   Projection/clearance. No sign shall project more than 3 feet
from the building wall or ½ the width of the sidewalk, whichever is less,
provided that no sign shall project closer than 3 feet to the curb line. All
projecting signs shall maintain a clear height of 8 feet above the ground
below.
            6.   Construction. All projecting signs shall be fastened directly
to the supporting building wall, with the supporting structure physically
integrated into the sign. All projecting signs shall intersect the building
wall at right angles.
            7.   Illumination. All projecting signs may be illuminated either
internally or externally, provided that  no illuminated sign located within 150
feet of any residential use or district, except in the B-1 District, may be
illuminated during the hours between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. Lighting
directed toward a sign shall be shielded so that it does not shine directly
into a public right-of-way or residential building and does not interfere with
the safe vision of motorists.
            8.   Location. Projecting signs are permitted only in non-
residential zoning districts.
         (c)   Freestanding signs (pole, monument, ground signs). These signs
are permitted as set forth herein. Any freestanding sign which exceeds 8 feet
in height may be erected only after a plan for such sign has been approved by
the Planning Board.
            1.   Size.
               a.   Pole sign. The maximum surface area of a single side of a
pole sign shall not exceed .125 square foot per linear foot of street frontage
along the street toward which such sign is primarily oriented.
               b.   Monument sign. The maximum surface area of a single side of
a monument sign shall not exceed .20 square foot per linear foot of street
frontage along the street toward which such sign is primarily oriented.
               c.   Ground sign. The maximum surface area of a single side of a
ground sign shall  not exceed .25 square foot per linear foot of street
frontage along the street toward which such sign is primarily oriented.
            2.   Number. One freestanding sign shall be allowed on any lot,
subject to the criteria herein, provided a pole sign shall only be allowed on a
lot which contains 100 feet or more of frontage on the street to which such
sign is to be oriented. If a common signage plan is approved by the Planning
Director, 2 freestanding signs may be allowed on a lot or development having a
minimum frontage of 300 feet on each of 2 adjacent streets, or more than 600
lineal feet of frontage on a single street, but only 1 may be a pole sign. When
a lot or development subject to the terms of an approved common signage plan
contains more than 1,500 linear feet of frontage on a single street, or has
frontage of 300 feet or more on each of 3 adjacent streets, a maximum of 3
freestanding signs may be allowed, but there shall
be only 1 pole sign permitted. When more than 1 freestanding sign is to be
constructed, the total permitted sign area of all  signs shall not exceed the
standard set forth in this division, and the total amount of freestanding sign
area shall not exceed .25 square feet per linear foot of frontage on the
adjacent street of greatest length.
            3.   Setback. No portion of any freestanding sign may extend over
any public right-of- way, or be located within 15 feet of any interior side lot
line. Further, no sign may be constructed within 20 feet of a right-of-way or
within 30 feet of a right-of-way.
            4.   Height. No freestanding sign nor any part thereof, including
base or apron, supports, supporting structures, and trim, may exceed 20 feet in
height. Further, no monument sign may exceed 8 feet in height and no ground
sign may exceed 4 feet in height.
            5.   Projection/clearance. All pole signs shall maintain a clear
height of 8 feet above the ground.
            6.   Construction. All freestanding signs shall be securely
fastened to the ground so that there is virtually no danger that the sign may
be moved by wind or other forces of nature and cause injury to persons or
property.
            7.   Illumination. All freestanding signs may be illuminated either
internally or externally, provided that no sign located within 150 feet of a
residential use or district, except in the B-1  district, may be illuminated
during the hours between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. Lighting directed toward
a sign shall be shielded so that it does not shine directly into a public
right-of-way or residential building and does not interfere with the safe
vision of motorists.
            8.   Location. Freestanding signs are permitted in nonresidential
districts, however, pole signs are  not permitted in the B-1 District. Home
occupation signs shall be permitted in residential districts in accordance with
§
156.305. The Town Board of Commissioners or Board of Adjustment may approve a
freestanding sign in accordance with the standards of this section as part of a
special or conditional use permit in a residential district.
            9.   Landscaping. Shrubs, flowers, or ground cover with a minimum
height of 18 inches and planting  bed area equal to ½ of the sign area shall be
planted around the entire base of any freestanding sign. The height of the
plant materials may be waived for ground signs or monument signs.
         (d)   Awning, marquee, canopy and hanging signs.
            1.   Size. The maximum area of a single awning or marquee sign
shall not exceed 75% of the surface area of the face of the awning or marquee
to which it is attached. The maximum area of 1 side of any sign hanging from an
awning shall be 6 square feet.
            2.   Number. One awning or marquee sign shall be permitted per
awning or marquee side that faces a public right-of-way or sidewalk. One
hanging sign is permitted per business premises.
            3.   Setback. No portion of any awning or marquee sign shall
project closer to the curb line than the awning or marquee to which it is
attached.
            4.   Height. Awning and marquee signs shall not extend above the
top of the awning or marquee to which they are attached. Hanging signs shall
not exceed 18 inches in height.
            5.   Projection/clearance. No portion of an awning or marquee sign
shall project more than 12 inches from the surface it is attached to. Hanging
signs shall maintain a clear height of 8 feet  above the ground.
            6.   Construction. All awning or marquee signs shall be fastened
directly to the awning or marquee so that there is virtually no danger that the
sign may be moved by wind or other forces of nature and cause injury to persons
or property.
            7.   Illumination. All awning and marquee signs may be illuminated
either internally or externally, provided that no illuminated sign located
within 150 feet of any residential use or district, except in the B-1 District,
may be illuminated during the hours between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m.
Lighting directed toward a sign shall be shielded so that it does not shine
directly into a public right-of-way or residential building and does not
interfere with the safe vision of motorists.
            8.   Location. Awning and marquee signs are permitted in non-
residential zoning districts.
      (2)   Off-premises signs.
         (a)   Billboards.
            1.   Size. The maximum area of a single side of a billboard shall
not exceed 200 square feet, with a maximum height of 15 feet, and a maximum
width of 20 feet, inclusive of any border and trim, but excluding the base or
apron, supports, and other structural members. If an advertising message
appears on the base or apron, it will not be excluded from the maximum
dimensions. Not more than 1 advertising face is allowed on each side of the
display.
            2.   Spacing. No part of any billboard shall be located less than
500 feet from any part of another billboard. The minimum distance between
billboards shall be measured along the nearest edge of the pavement between
points directly opposite the sign along each side of the highway, and shall
apply only to billboards located on the same side of the highway. Billboards
shall not be located in such a manner as to obscure or physically interfere
with the effectiveness of an official traffic sign, signal, or device or
obstruct or physically interfere with a driver's view of approaching, merging,
or intersecting traffic.
            3.   Setback. Billboards shall be placed at least 50 feet off the
state right-of-way.
            4.   Height. No billboard or part thereof, including base or apron,
supports, supporting structures and trim shall exceed 25 feet in height,
measured from the top of the sign to the ground at the base of the sign or
highway grade level, whichever may be higher.
            5.   Projection/clearance. All billboards shall maintain a clear
height of 8 feet above the ground at the base of the sign or highway grade
level, whichever may be higher.
            6.   Construction. All billboards shall be constructed in
accordance with the North Carolina Building Code and the National Electric
Code.
            7.   Illumination. All billboards may be externally illuminated, so
long as such lighting is effectively shielded to prevent beams or rays of light
from being directed into any portion of the traveled ways of a public street,
and is not of such intensity or brilliance as to cause glare or to interfere
with any driver's operation of a motor vehicle.
            8.   Location. Billboards are permitted in all zoning districts by
special use only.
            9.   Annexation. Billboards located on property that is annexed by
the town shall be allowed a period of 42 months from the date of annexation to
comply with the provisions of this section.
         (b)   Other off-premises signs. All other types of off-premises
signage is prohibited unless specifically addressed below.
      (3)   Other types of signs.
         (a)   Temporary signs. The signs described in this section may be
erected on a temporary basis only after a permit has been issued by the
Planning Director. No sign shall be placed in a public right-of-way, nor
attached to a pole or structure owned by a public utility company.
            1.   One on-premises construction project sign, not to exceed 20
square feet in size, may be erected in a residential district, and up to 2 on-
premises construction project signs may be erected in a business, industrial,
or office and institutional zone, so long as the sum of the areas of 1 face of
these signs does not exceed 32 square feet. Construction signs shall not be
erected prior to site plan or plat approval or the issuance of a building
permit, and shall be removed within 15 days after final inspection and approval
of the project.
            2.   Political signs are permitted in all zoning districts for a
period not exceeding 30 days preceding the opening of the polls, and shall be
removed within 5 days of the closing of the polls. With the exception of
election days, no political signs shall be placed on public property paid for
by public funds or tax money. Signs shall not exceed 32 square feet in
aggregate area per lot, and shall not exceed 8 feet in height. No such sign
shall be located within or over the public right-of-way. At the polls, any
number of political signs may be erected. Such signs shall not be placed more
than 24 hours preceding the opening of the polls, and shall be removed within
24 hours following the closing of the polls.
            3.   Signs indicating special events, such as a fair, carnival,
festival, grand opening, sale,  or similar non-permanent activity to be
conducted within the Kenly zoning jurisdiction, not including the Downtown
Overlay District (see division (J) below). Such sign shall not exceed 32 square
feet in area and may be erected for a period not to exceed 30 days. Such signs
shall be removed by the applicant within 7 days after the event has taken
place, and may be permitted only 1 time within a 12-month period.
            4.   "Yard Sale" signs, located off-site from the property where
such activity is to occur, shall be permitted outside of public rights-of-way.
Such signs may not exceed 4 square feet in size. Signs shall not be erected
more than 7 days before the sale date and shall be removed within 48 hours of
the sale date.
            5.   Real estate, church or nonprofit organizational direction
signs may be located off-site; however, such signs may not exceed 6 square feet
and no more than 1 sign per intersection shall be permitted. Such signs may be
erected for a period of 3 consecutive days and must be removed by the applicant
for a period of at least 3 days before placement in the same location is
reestablished. Such sign permit shall be subject to an annual renewal as
established in the Town Comprehensive List of Fees and Charges.
         (b)   Tract identification signs. Up to 2 on-premises permanent
subdivision, church, apartment, civic club, fraternal organization, or
community facility tract identification signs for each street frontage are
permitted, but the sum of the areas of 1 face of these signs shall not exceed
40 square feet.
         (c)   Product and information signs. On-premises product or
information signs are permitted, so long as the sum of the areas of 1 face of
these signs does not exceed 48 square feet, and the area of any single sign
does not exceed 16 square feet in size.
         (d)   Community service signs. A welcome sign, or a sign incorporating
the insignias of more than 1 civic, governmental and/or nonprofit organization,
may be permitted. Any such sign shall not exceed 100  square feet in area nor
20 feet in height. Location within a public right-of-way may only be permitted
with written approval of the state or town. Such sign may be on-premises or
off-premises.
   (F)   Exemptions. The following signs shall not be subject to regulation
hereunder:
      (1)   Signs erected by or on behalf of or pursuant to the authorization
of a governmental body.
      (2)   Flags, pennants, or insignia of any governmental or nonprofit
organization, when not displayed in connection with a commercial promotion or
as an advertising device.
      (3)   Signs directing and guiding traffic on private property that do not
exceed 4 square feet in size each and that bear no advertising message.
      (4)   Signs painted on or otherwise permanently attached to currently
licensed motor vehicles that are not primarily used as signs.
      (5)   Signs not exceeding 4 square feet in size that are customarily
associated with residential use and that are not of a commercial nature, such
as signs giving names of occupants, signs on mailboxes and paper tubes, and
signs posted on private property relating to private parking or warning the
public against trespassing or danger from animals.
      (6)   "Yard Sale" signs located on-site and not exceeding 4 square feet
in area not used in connection with any continuous commercial activity.
      (7)   Signs containing the message that the real estate on which the sign
is located is for sale, lease,  or rent, together with information identifying
the owner or agent. For uses non-residential, such sign shall not exceed 16
square feet in size for developments under 2 acres, and shall not exceed 32
square feet in size or 6 feet in height for all non-residential developments
larger than 2 acres. For residential properties less than 5 acres, such sign
shall not exceed 9 square feet. For residential properties between 5 and 20
acres, such sign shall not exceed 16 square feet. For residential properties in
excess of 20 acres, such sign shall not exceed 32 square feet and 6 feet in
height. Such sign shall be removed immediately after sale, lease, or rental.
Only 1 sign on each street frontage may be erected, but on lots having a street
frontage in excess of 400 feet, a second sign not exceeding 9 square feet in
size may be erected.
      (8)   Displays, including lighting, erected in connection with the
observance of holidays. Such signs shall be removed within 10 days following
the holiday.
   (G)   Signs prohibited. The following signs are expressly prohibited within
all zoning districts:
      (1)   Portable signs, including any signs painted on or displayed on
vehicles or trailers usually parked in public places primarily for displays,
except where provided for in division (F) above. Additionally, any such
prohibited sign designed to be portable shall not be permitted to be altered so
as to be made permanent.
      (2)   Roof signs.
      (3)   Windblown signs, including banners, pennants, streamers, spinners,
blimps, gas balloons, and no more than 2 flags, unless specifically provided
for in division (F) above.
      (4)   Any sign or device set into motion by mechanical, electrical, or
other means.
      (5)   Any signs that are considered neon or have gas bulb fixtures (B-
1 Zoning District Only).
      (6)   Any flashing sign or device displaying flashing or intermittent
lights or lights of changing degrees or intensity, except a sign indicating
time and/or temperature, with changes alternating on not less than a 5-second
cycle.
      (7)   Any sign which is a copy or imitation of an official sign, or which
purports to have official status.
      (8)   Off-premises signs, unless specifically provided for in this
section.
   (H)   Removal of obsolete or deteriorated signs.
      (1)   Obsolete signs.
         (a)   Signs which identify business establishments no longer in
existence, products no longer being sold, services no longer being rendered, or
events which have already occurred shall be removed by the owner of the
premises on which the sign is situated within 90 days of receipt of
notification by the enforcement officer. In the case of sign structures
designed to carry messages printed on non-permanent materials such as paper or
cardboard, this provision applies only to the message, not the sign structure.
         (b)   When a sign is determined to have particular historical or
culturally significant value, such determination to be made by a majority vote
of the Planning Board, the terms of this section may be waived.
      (2)   Deteriorated signs. Any sign which, together with its supports,
braces, anchors, and other structural elements, is not maintained in accordance
with the provisions of the North Carolina State Building Code, or which is
otherwise determined to be unsound or unsafe, shall be removed or brought into
compliance with all codes and ordinances within 30 days of notification by the
enforcement officer.
   (I)   Maintenance.
      (1)   All signs shall be maintained in a state of good repair. The
Planning Director is authorized to inspect  each sign periodically to determine
that it meets the requirements set forth in this chapter. Whenever it shall
appear to the Planning Director that any sign has been structured or is being
maintained in violation of this chapter, such sign shall be made to conform
with all regulations herein, or shall be removed at the expense of the owner
within 10 days after written verification thereof by the Planning Director.
      (2)   Maintenance responsibilities: to ensure that signs are erected and
maintained in a safe and attractive manner, the following maintenance
requirements shall apply to all signs visible from any street right-of-way:
         (a)   A sign shall have no more than 20% of its surface area covered
with disfigured, cracked, ripped, or peeling paint, poster paper, or other
material for a period of more than 30 successive days.
         (b)   A sign shall not stand with bent or broken sign facing, with
broken supports, with loose appendages or struts, or more than 15% from
vertical for a period of no more than 10 successive days.
         (c)   A sign shall not have weeds, trees, vines, or other vegetation
growing upon it, or obscuring the view of the sign from the street or right-of-
way from which it is to be viewed, for a period of no more than 30 successive
days.
   (J)   Downtown overlay district. The Downtown Overlay District is
established for the purpose of fostering the economic vitality of the area
within the district's boundaries. It is recognized that a vibrant downtown
promotes the economic development and stability of the entire community. The
standards established herein shall be applied to all non-residential properties
which are located within the district's boundaries.
      (1)   Designation of Downtown Overlay District. This district shall be an
overlay district and shall include all commercially zoned properties located
within the Downtown Overlay District of the Town of Kenly Zoning Map.
      (2)   Permitted uses. All permitted, special and conditional uses of the
underlying zoning district are allowed subject to the specific requirements and
procedures for each classification.
      (3)   Dimensional requirements. The dimensional requirements of this
overlay district shall be the same as the underlying zoning district.
      (4)   Sign regulations.
         (a)   Easels. Easels shall be permitted within the Downtown Overlay
District provided that there is a minimum of 5 feet of sidewalk clearance.
Easels shall be uniform in size (maximum 6 square feet) and type as selected by
the Town of Kenly Downtown Development Association. Easels will only be allowed
during business hours. Only 1 easel shall be allowed per business.
         (b)   Window signs. One 11-inch by 17-inch window sign or two 8 1/2-
inch by 11-inch window signs shall be permitted per business per street
frontage. Changeable letter signs shall be prohibited in the Downtown Overlay
District except for "historic signs."
         (c)   Promotional banners.
            1.   Promotional banners not exceeding 12 square feet shall be
permitted in the Downtown Overlay District for periods of up to 14 days.
Promotional banners shall be allowed a maximum of 4 times per year. All
promotional banners must be reviewed and approved by Planning Director and a
permit must be issued. Promotional banners must be removed immediately
following the 14-day period.
            2.   Religious, governmental, civic, and bona fide non-profit
organizations may display a single promotional banner within or over a public
right-of-way for a period not to exceed 14 days, subject to the issuance of a
permit by the Planning Department. Such banner shall be erected by the Town of
Kenly in a manner which does not endanger the public use of said right-of-way.
No organization may erect a promotional banner under the terms of this section
more than twice in a 12 month period.
      (d)   Decorative flags and banners. Decorative flags and banners shall be
reviewed and approved by the Planning Director. Holiday decorations may be
installed for a maximum period of 7 weeks. Seasonal banners must correspond to
the appropriate season.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.404  OUTDOOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   Unless specifically exempt, all existing and proposed development
for which site plan approval is required (see §
156.707) shall meet the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Buildings and structures lawfully existing as of the effective date
of this chapter may be redeveloped, renovated or repaired without modifying
outdoor lighting in conformance with this section, provided there is no
increase in gross floor area in such building or structure or impervious area
on the site.
      (3)   Where a building or structure existed as of the effective date of
this chapter, and such building is enlarged in gross floor area or impervious
area on the site by 10% or 2,000 square feet, whichever is less, outdoor
lighting as specified in this section shall be provided.
   (B)   Prohibited light sources. The following light fixtures and sources
shall not be used within the town where the direct light emitted is visible
from adjacent areas:
      (1)   Low-pressure sodium and mercury vapor light sources;
      (2)   Cobra-head-type fixtures having dished or drop lenses or refractors
which house other than incandescent sources; and
      (3)   Searchlights and other high-intensity narrow-beam fixtures.
   (C)   Design requirements. Outdoor lighting shall primarily be used to
provide safety while secondarily accenting key architectural elements and to
emphasize landscape features. Light fixtures shall be designed as an integral
design element that complements the design of the project. This may be
accomplished through style, material or color. All lighting fixtures designed
or placed so as to illuminate any portion of a site shall meet the following
requirements:
      (1)   Fixture (luminaire). The light source shall be concealed and shall
not be visible from any street right-of-way or adjacent  properties. In order
to direct light downward and minimize the amount of light spillage into the
night sky and onto adjacent properties, all lighting fixtures shall be cutoff
fixtures.
      (2)   Fixture height. Lighting fixtures shall be a maximum of 30 feet in
height within parking areas and shall be a maximum of 15 feet in height within
non-vehicular pedestrian areas. All light fixtures located within 50 feet of
any residential use or residential property boundary shall not exceed 15 feet
in height.
      (3)   Light source (lamp). Only incandescent, fluorescent, metal halide,
or color corrected high-pressure sodium may be used. The same light source type
shall be used for the same or similar types of lighting on any 1 site
throughout any development.
      (4)   Mounting. Fixtures shall be mounted in such a manner that the cone
of light is contained on-site and does not cross any property line of the site.
      (5)   Limit lighting to periods of activity. The use of sensor
technologies, timers or other means to activate lighting during times when it
will be needed may be required by the Planning Board to conserve energy,
provide safety and promote compatibility between different land uses.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-67.png]
 
   (D)   Specific lighting standards.
      (1)   Security lighting.
         (a)   Building-mounted security light fixtures such as wall packs
shall not project above the fascia or roof line of the building and shall be
shielded.
         (b)   Security fixtures shall not face a residential property.
         (c)   Security fixtures shall not be substituted for parking area or
walkway lighting and shall be restricted to loading, storage, service and
similar locations.
      (2)   Accent lighting. Only lighting used to accent architectural
features, landscaping or art may be directed upward, provided that the fixture
shall be located, aimed or shielded to minimize light spill into the night sky.
      (3)   Canopy area lighting. All development that incorporates a canopy
area over fuel sales, automated teller machines or similar installations shall
use a recessed lens cover flush with the bottom surface of the canopy that
provides a cutoff or shielded light distribution.
      (4)   Entrances and exits in non-residential and multi-family
development. All entrances and exits to buildings used for non-residential
purposes and open to the general public, along with all entrances and exits in
multi-family residential buildings containing more than 4 units, shall be
adequately lighted to ensure the safety of persons and the security of the
building.
      (5)   Commercial parking area lighting. All commercial parking areas
shall be required to provide lighting during nighttime hours of operation.
   (E)   Excessive illumination.
      (1)   Lighting within any lot that unnecessarily illuminates and
substantially interferes with the use or enjoyment of any other property shall
be prohibited. Lighting unnecessarily illuminates another lot if it exceeds the
requirements of this section.
      (2)   Lighting shall not be oriented so as to direct glare or excessive
illumination onto streets in a manner that may distract or interfere with the
vision of drivers.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.405  OUTDOOR STORAGE AND DISPLAY.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   Any merchandise, material or equipment stored outside of a fully-
enclosed building shall be subject to the requirements of this section.
      (2)   Vehicles for sale, lease or rent as part of a properly permitted
use (including boats and manufactured housing) shall not be considered
merchandise, material or equipment and shall be subject to the parking buffer
requirements of §
156.402.
   (B)   Outdoor display.
      (1)   Outdoor display shall be defined as the outdoor display of products
actively available for sale. The outdoor location of soft drink or similar
vending machines shall be considered outdoor display. Outdoor display shall not
include merchandise or material in boxes, in crates, on pallets or other kinds
of shipping containers. Such merchandise shall be considered limited outdoor
storage.
      (2)   Outdoor display shall be permitted in association with any non-
residential use following  Planning Board review of a major site plan in
accordance with §
156.707, illustrating the extent of the permitted area for outdoor display
provided it meets the standards below.
         (a)   Outdoor display shall be permitted adjacent to the primary
façade (façade with principal customer entrance) and shall extend no more than
8 feet from such façade.
         (b)   Outdoor display shall be located no closer than 5 feet from any
public entrance.
         (c)   Outdoor display shall occupy no more than 30% of the horizontal
length of the façade.
         (d)   Outdoor display shall not impair the ability of pedestrians to
use the sidewalk or parking areas.
   (C)   Outdoor storage.
      (1)   General. Outdoor storage is more intensive than outdoor display.
Materials stored in outdoor storage are not normally brought indoors overnight.
Outdoor storage is broken into 2 categories as follows:
      (2)   Limited outdoor storage.
         (a)   Limited outdoor storage shall be defined as the overnight
outdoor storage of vehicles awaiting repair (includes the storage of vehicles
at self-storage facility), merchandise or material in boxes, in crates, on
pallets or other kinds of shipping containers, shopping carts, garden supplies,
building supplies, plants, fleet vehicles and other similar merchandise,
material or equipment.
         (b)   Limited outdoor storage shall only be permitted in the B-3, I-
1 and I-2 districts following Planning Board review of a major site plan in
accordance with §
156.707, illustrating the extent of the permitted area for limited outdoor
storage provided it meets the standards below.
            1.   Limited outdoor storage shall not be more than 12 feet in
height and shall be fully screened from view from the public right-of-way,
public parking areas, or adjacent residential development by a 100% opaque
visual barrier or screen. Chain-link fencing with slats inserted may be
considered acceptable for this screening, except where located abutting or
across the street from a residential use or residentially-zoned property.
            2.   All limited outdoor storage shall be located at least 15 feet
from the public right-of- way and any abutting residential use or
residentially-zoned district.
            3.   Limited outdoor storage shall be located in the rear yard.
            4.   Limited outdoor storage may be located to the side of a
building, provided it is not located within the side yard.
            5.   Vehicles awaiting repair may be stored up to 14 days within
the required screened storage area.
      (3)   General outdoor storage.
         (a)   General outdoor storage shall be defined as salvage yards,
vehicle storage yards, overnight outdoor storage of shipping containers,
lumber, pipe, steel, junk and other similar merchandise, material or equipment.
         (b)   General outdoor storage shall only be permitted in the I-1 and
I-2 districts following Planning Board review of a major site plan in
accordance with §
156.707, illustrating the extent of the permitted area for general outdoor
storage provided it meets the standards below.
            1.   General outdoor storage shall screened by 100% opaque, 8 foot
high visual barrier or screen, except where located abutting or across the
street from a residential use or residentially-zoned property such screening
shall be high enough to completely conceal all outdoor storage from view.
            2.   All general outdoor storage shall be located at least 15 feet
from the public right-of-way and any abutting residential use or residential
district.
            3.   No general outdoor storage shall be permitted in a street yard
or otherwise forward of the front building line.
            4.   General outdoor storage may be located in the side or rear
yard.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
[RESERVED]
SUBDIVISION STANDARDS
§ 156.600  APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all development within the town's planning
jurisdiction, unless expressly exempted by the language of the sections below.
   (B)   Prior to approval of a final plat for the subdivision of land, the
applicant shall have installed improvements specified in this chapter or
guaranteed their installation as provided.
   (C)   No municipal services or utilities shall be extended or furnished to
any subdivision either within or outside the town until the applicant shall
have installed the improvements specified in this chapter or guaranteed their
installation as provided.
   (D)   The appropriate acreage fees in accordance with §
50.02,  which addresses the water and sewer extension policy, shall be
collected by the town prior to permission being granted to connect lines
serving the property to the town's facilities.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.601  SEQUENCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   Subdivision improvements shall be installed on the site in the following
sequence:
   (A)   Street grading and installation of water distribution lines, sanitary
sewers, storm sewers, gas, telephone, cable television, and electric service
lines, with connections for each  system extended beyond the curb line to
preclude subsequent cutting of pavement.
   (B)   Street base material.
   (C)   Curb and gutter and sidewalks.
   (D)   Street paving.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.602  STREETS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Streets within the town are intended for multi-purpose use, as
follows:
         (a)   To carry motor vehicle traffic, and, in some cases, allow on-
street parking;
         (b)   To provide a safe and convenient passageway for pedestrian
traffic; and
         (c)   To serve as an important link in the town's drainage system.
      (2)   All public streets which serve properties connected to the town's
utility system shall be constructed in conformance with town standards and
specifications; however, if the roadway is maintained by NCDOT, then the
roadway shall be constructed in conformance with either town or NCDOT standards
and specifications, whichever is more stringent.
      (3)   If the final plat for a residential subdivision outside the town
limits but within the town's extraterritorial jurisdiction has been approved
and improvements have been guaranteed by the developer in accordance with §
156.607, the applicant shall provide the town and purchasers of land in the
subdivision with an agreement providing for adequate maintenance of the newly
constructed streets until such time that the streets are taken over by the
NCDOT, as required by G.S. § 136-102.6.
   (B)   Street improvements.
      (1)   Required improvements.
         (a)   The applicant shall be responsible for the cost and installation
of the applicable standard residential, residential collector, collector, or
commercial street width and pavement design requirements. Paving shall be
installed for roadways through and adjoining the development in accordance with
town standards and specifications (or NCDOT standards if applicable). The
applicant shall also provide additional pavement surfaces for turning lanes in
accordance with the Town's Engineering Design Manual.
         (b)   The applicant shall be responsible for making improvements to
thoroughfare rights-of-way, as designated on the town's transportation plan.
The improvements to be installed are as follows: the thoroughfare sub-base and
surface paving materials, thoroughfare grading, and the remaining standards of
applicable minimum residential, residential collector, collector, or commercial
streets shall be made to extend to the outer perimeter boundaries of a
development for any development where any of the following conditions occur:
            1.   The thoroughfare improvements would provide necessary access
to the development  or adjoining properties.
            2.   The improvement would be an extension of an already existing
section of thoroughfare roadway.
            3.   The traffic from the development is predominantly from non-
residential activities and the development would otherwise gain access through
a residential area.
      (2)   Fee-in-lieu.
         (a)   The town may require a fee-in-lieu of installation payment to
the town for minimum residential, residential collector, collector, or
commercial streets for the length of the thoroughfare if any of the following
criteria are met:
            1.   No direct access to the thoroughfare is proposed.
            2.   The minimum street improvement is ½ of an existing unimproved
right-of-way, and improvements, if constructed, would not be used for traffic
circulation.
            3.   Where the new thoroughfare right-of-way is only partially
contained on the development site and therefore, construction of only a portion
of the new street cross-section is possible.
         (b)   The Town Board of Commissioners may allow fee-in-lieu of minimum
street construction payments to the town for residential, residential
collector, collector, or commercial streets if any of the following criteria
and their conditions are satisfied:
            1.   Where existing unimproved streets have:
               a.   Insufficient lineal footage to serve overall traffic
circulation purposes or  interrupts an existing swale/ditch storm drainage
system with curb and gutter, which would disrupt the drainage system operation;
               b.   Curb and gutter improvements would not connect to existing
curb and gutter, or there are no similar improvements on the same block;
               c.   There are no plans for town improvements on the same block;
and
               d.   The area is sufficiently developed (75% of the block) such
that few future subdivision or site plan submittals are anticipated.
            2.   Where construction of the streets by the town or other party
is imminent.
            3.   Where construction of only a sidewalk is required without
street improvements, and the new sidewalk is less than 1 block in length and
would not connect to an existing sidewalk.
            4.   Where approved by the Town Board of Commissioners for a new
street that traverses a site when:
               a.   Street construction will not connect to an existing
improved street;
               b.   There are no plans to construct an adjoining street in the
near future; and
               c.   A letter of credit is not an appropriate financial
security.
            5.   Where approved by the Town Board of Commissioners, when for
reasons of topography, street construction is impractical due to:
               a.   The need for off-site construction or slope encroachment;
               b.   Proper street alignment should be determined with off-site
development; or
               c.   Design of bridges or culverts are required and only a
portion of the structure is on the development's property.
         (c)   Developments will not be responsible for the cost and
installation of any paving construction requirements along existing or planned
roadways, if any of the following conditions exist:
            1.   The roadway is a freeway, expressway or any other fully
controlled access facility.
            2.   The roadway is in the Town's Capital Improvement Program,
final design plans have been initiated, and the project will fall under the
assessment policy of the town.
            3.   The roadway is on NCDOT's Transportation Improvement Program,
final design  plans have been initiated, and there will be no town contribution
or participation in funding the project. If the town funds a portion of the
project, then a fee-in-lieu of installation will be required as a contribution
towards town-funded improvements.
   (C)   Street classification. In all new subdivisions, streets that are
dedicated to public use shall be classified as provided in division (D) below.
      (1)   The classification shall be based upon the projected volume of
traffic to be carried by the street, stated in terms of the number of trips per
day or during the peak hour of the day;
      (2)   The number of dwelling units to be served by the street may be used
as a useful indicator of the number of trips but is not conclusive; and
      (3)   Whenever a subdivision street continues on an existing street or it
is expected that a subdivision street will be continued beyond the subdivision
at some future time, the classification of the street will be based upon the
street in its entirety, both within and outside of the subdivision.
   (D)   Street types.
      (1)   Major thoroughfare. A street serving the principal network for high
volumes of traffic or high speed traffic as shown on the town's transportation
plan. This street type consists of at least 2 travel lanes in each direction. A
major thoroughfare shall be designated where the anticipated average daily
volume exceeds 10,000 vehicles. Residences should not front on a major
thoroughfare.
      (2)   Minor thoroughfare. A street designed primarily to collect and
distribute traffic between the local street network and major thoroughfares as
shown on the town's transportation plan. This street type generally consists of
more than 1 travel lane in each direction. A minor thoroughfare shall  be
designated where the anticipated average daily volume ranges exceeds 6,000
vehicles. Residences should not front on a minor thoroughfare.
      (3)   Commercial street. A multi-lane street connecting to major or minor
thoroughfares designed to accommodate large volumes (in excess of 6,000 trips
per day) of traffic at moderate speeds while also providing, as a major part of
its function, direct access to non-residential or mixed use high trip
generating land uses.
      (4)   Collector street. A street whose principal function is to carry
traffic between residential collectors, residential streets, cul-de-sacs and
major and minor thoroughfares, but that may also provide direct access to
abutting properties. It is designed to carry more than 3,500 but less than
6,000 trips per day. Typically, a collector is able to serve, directly or
indirectly, between 350 and 600 dwelling  units.
      (5)   Residential collector street. A street which serves as a connector
street between residential streets, cul-de-sacs and major and minor
thoroughfares. Residential collector streets typically collect traffic from 100
to 400 dwelling units.
      (6)   Residential street. A street whose principal function is to provide
access to adjacent properties.
      (7)   Cul-de-sac (commercial, residential). A short street having one end
open to traffic and the other permanently terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
      (8)   Alley. A public vehicular way providing service access along rear
or side property lines of lots which are also served by one of the other listed
street types.
      (9)   Frontage road.
         (a)   A street, parallel and adjacent to a major or minor
thoroughfare, which provides access to abutting properties, protection from
through traffic, and control of access to the major or minor thoroughfare.
         (b)   Where a parcel of land to be subdivided adjoins a major
thoroughfare, the Planning Board or Town Board of Commissioners may require
that such lots be provided access by a frontage road.
   (E)   Thoroughfare dedication.
      (1)   Whenever a parcel of land included within any proposed development
plan embraces any part  of a thoroughfare system roadway and is so designated
in the town's transportation plan, after such part of it has been adopted by
the proper authority, such part of such proposed public way shall be platted
and dedicated in the location and width indicated on the plans. This
requirement shall not require the applicant to dedicate rights-of-way unless
indicated on the town's transportation plan. It is the responsibility of the
applicant to take future roadway plans of the town and the NCDOT into account
when laying out a development plan.
      (2)   Developments which embrace only one side of an existing or planned
thoroughfare right-of-way will only be required to plat and dedicate additional
right-of-way for that portion of roadway with which the development has
frontage. Such improvements shall be in conformance with town standards and
shall be measured from the right-of-way centerline.
   (F)   Cross-sections.
      (1)   Appropriate street cross-sections shall be approved by the town or
NCDOT. Appendix A contains approved street cross-sections for the Town of
Kenly. Alternative cross-sections may be approved by the Town Board of
Commissioners as a waiver (see §
156.706), and when necessary in conjunction with NCDOT.
      (2)   Cul-de-sacs shall be used only when it is determined by the Town
Board of Commissioners that extension of the street to an adjacent property is
impractical or unnecessary. Alternative turnaround designs on residential
streets serving 6 dwelling units or less may be considered on a case-by-case
basis. Alternative designs must readily accommodate emergency vehicles and
sanitation trucks. Medians may be permitted where the cul-de-sac radius is
increased and it can be demonstrated that emergency vehicles and sanitation
trucks can be accommodated. Unless specifically agreed upon with the town,
landscaped medians are not to be maintained by the town, and a private
maintenance agreement for the median shall be required to be approved by the
Town Attorney.
      (3)   Subdivisions along existing streets of inadequate right-of-way
shall provide additional right-of-way to meet the minimum widths specified in
Appendix A. The entire right-of-way shall be provided where any part of a new
subdivision is on both sides of an existing street, and one-half the required
right-of-way, measured from the center line of the existing street, shall be
provided where a new subdivision is located on one side of an existing street.
      (4)   A slope easement of 20 feet in width may be required adjoining each
side of a street right-of-way. The town may reduce or increase the slope
easement width if due to terrain. If the applicant submits to the town
sufficient information to show that improvements to be located in the slope
easement do not interfere with the right of the public to construct within the
adjoining right-of-way streets, sidewalks, or both, then the town shall allow
the proposed improvement.
   (G)   Cul-de-sac length.
      (1)   No residential street cul-de-sac serving lots of 20,000 square feet
or greater in size shall exceed 1,000 feet in length. No residential street
cul-de-sac serving lots less than 20,000 square feet in size shall exceed 700
feet in length.
      (2)   No commercial street cul-de-sac shall exceed 400 feet in length.
   (H)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   In order to enhance pedestrian safety and mobility, except as set
forth below, sidewalks shall be required on both sides of all streets (see
Appendix A for approved street cross-sections).
         (a)   Sidewalks shall not be required on the following roadways:
            1.   In residential developments with minimum lot sizes 1 acre or
greater, except where an existing school, park, open space, trail or greenway
lies within ¼-mile of the boundaries of the proposed subdivision, in which case
a safe pedestrian connection between the subdivision and the off-site facility
is required.
            2.   Residential streets serving less than or equal to 10 dwelling
units. Corner lots that have frontage on both a connective or loop street shall
not be included in determining the number of dwelling units served by the
street. Street stubs temporarily serving 10 lots or less shall provide
sidewalks on both sides of the street.
            3.   Commercial street cul-de-sacs that are less than 150 feet in
length.
         (b)   Sidewalks shall be required on only 1 side of a frontage road.
      (2)   Sidewalk access ramps, also commonly referred to as wheelchair
ramps for the physically handicapped, shall be provided at all intersections
where curb and gutter are provided (see division (I) below), and where
sidewalks and/or greenway trails intersect any street.
      (3)   Pedestrian crosswalks are required on any residential street at
each intersection and at any mid-block pedestrian or bicycle connections.
      (4)   The Town Board of Commissioners may allow a fee-in-lieu for
sidewalk construction as set forth in division (B)(2)(b) above.
   (I)   Curb and gutter. Unless granted a waiver (see §
156.706) by the Town Board of Commissioners, all public streets inside the
corporate limits of the town and outside the town when water or sewer is
connected to  the town utility system, shall be constructed with curb and
gutter (see
Appendix A for approved street cross-sections). Curb and gutter shall be a
combination curb and gutter or such other construction approved in the town's
Engineering Design Manual. Rolled or valley-type curbs are permitted for new
collector, residential collector, and residential streets.
   (J)   Relationship of streets to topography.
      (1)   Streets shall be designed to relate appropriately to the topography
of a site. In particular, streets shall be designed to facilitate the storm
drainage requirements specified in §
156.604 and subject to the design requirements relating to maximum grades set
forth in division (J)(2) below, street grades shall conform as closely as
practicable to the original topography.
      (2)   The maximum grade for street construction shall meet design
requirements of the Town of Kenly or NCDOT. However, in no case may streets be
constructed with grades that, in the professional opinion of the Public Works
Director, create a substantial danger to the public safety or cause any
substantial degradation to the street or drainage system.
   (K)   Street layout.
      (1)   The street layout of any development should be in conformity with
the town's transportation plan and all other applicable adopted plans and
policies of the town. Public streets shall be constructed to the boundary lines
of the development submitted for approval when required to provide for
efficient circulation of traffic within the community.
      (2)   Each side of a collector street, commercial street or residential
street shall, within every 1,500 foot length of the street, be intersected by
at least 1 connective street. The 1,500 foot length shall be measured from the
origination point, if established, of the collector, commercial, residential or
residential street.
      (3)   A waiver (see §
156.706) may be granted by the Town Board of Commissioners for developments
that do not meet the above layout or creates a violation of this layout if:
         (a)   Existing surrounding development prevents extending a street to
any adjoining developments to meet this regulation.
         (b)   The adjoining existing street pattern or a planned "stub" street
provides for an appropriate intersecting street beyond the 1,500-foot point,
that would provide equivalent benefits as  an intersecting street within 1,500
feet.
         (c)   Severe topography or other physical features warrant making a
connection of an intersecting street at another location either inside or
outside the development to provide equivalent benefits as an intersecting
street within a distance of 1,500 feet, and this other alternate specific
location is provided for at the time the development making the request for an
alternate location is approved.
      (4)   Existing adjoining public streets, public platted streets, and
publicly planned streets shall be continued and extended as public streets as
part of the development. Streets that are not to be extended, as determined by
the Town Board of Commissioners, shall be terminated in a permanent cul-de-sac.
      (5)   Where a proposed development will extend a public street that is
already stubbed out to the property line, such extension as a public street
shall be required.
      (6)   Wherever there exists a dedicated or platted half street adjacent
to the parcel to be developed, the other half shall be platted and, where
required, constructed.
      (7)   Where a through street or a series of streets establishes a
connection between 2 public streets and the connection is greater than 1,200
feet in length, or the connection  may encourage  through traffic not generated
by the development, the street shall be a public street, except in instances
where the Town Board of Commissioners determines that requiring such
connection  to be a public street will serve no purpose, due to the existing or
proposed street pattern, traffic flow or traffic volumes.
      (8)   Where a proposed development utilizing private streets has an area
of 20 or more acres, at least 1 public through street must be provided in a
location determined by the Town Board of Commissioners to assure continuity of
the public street system, except in instances where the Town Board of
Commissioners determines that such public through street will serve no purpose
due to the existing or proposed street pattern, traffic flow or traffic volume.
The Town Board of Commissioners may also require additional public through
streets for the provision of emergency services, such as police and fire
protection, or to provide alternate circulation at congested or critical
intersections.
   (L)   Construction standards and specifications. All streets and sidewalks
required by this section shall be constructed according to the specifications
of the town's Engineering Design Manual, except that the Town Board of
Commissioners may permit sidewalks to be constructed with other materials when
they conclude that:
      (1)   Such sidewalks would serve the residents of the development as
adequately as concrete sidewalks;
      (2)   Such sidewalks would be more environmentally desirable or more in
keeping with the overall design of the development; or
      (3)   Such sidewalks could be maintained as adequately as concrete
sidewalks.
   (M)   Private streets.
      (1)   All private streets shall be constructed according to the town's
public street construction standards. Unless the recorded plat of a subdivision
clearly indicates a street to be private, the recording of such plat shall
constitute an offer of dedication of such streets. The town shall have the
discretion to require a public street connection for safety or access purposes.
      (2)   The recorded plat of any subdivision that includes a private street
shall clearly state that such street is a private street. Further, the initial
purchasers of a newly-created lot served by a private road shall be furnished
by the seller with a disclosure statement outlining the maintenance
responsibilities for the street, in accordance with the requirements set forth
in G.S. § 136-102.6.
      (3)   All private streets shall be maintained by a designated responsible
party in accordance with Town of Kenly standards.
      (4)   Where private streets are later made public through dedication to
the town, such streets shall be brought up to public construction and
maintenance standards, prior to their acceptance by the town.
   (N)   Street names and signs.
      (1)   Street names shall be subject to the approval of the Town Board of
Commissioners. New street names shall not duplicate or be similar to existing
street names in Johnston County. Existing street names, however, shall be
projected where appropriate.
      (2)   Street name signs shall be in place prior to approval of any
certificate of occupancy for structures to be located on the street.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.603  LOTS AND BLOCKS.
   (A)   Lots.
      (1)   Every lot shall abut or front on a public street.
      (2)   Lot sizes, shapes, and locations shall be made with due regard to
topographic conditions, contemplated uses, and the surrounding areas. All lots
approved after January 6, 1997 shall contain the minimum required lot width of
the applicable zoning district within 50 feet of the street right-of-way
adjoining the front yard.
      (3)   Double frontage lots shall be avoided, except when lots adjoin a
thoroughfare and access is desirable by a street of residential scale, and
discouraged or prohibited on the thoroughfare.
      (4)   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles or radial to
street lines.
   (B)   Blocks.
      (1)   Blocks shall be laid out with special consideration given to the
type of land use proposed within the block.
      (2)   Blocks shall not exceed 1,500 feet in length.
      (3)   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for 2 tiers of lots
of appropriate depth, except where otherwise required to separate residential
development from through traffic.
      (4)   A pedestrian connection not less than 10 feet in width may be
required near the center and entirely across any block in excess of 900 feet in
length to provide adequate access to schools, shopping centers, churches, or
transportation facilities.
      (5)   A pedestrian connection through a cul-de-sac not less than 10 feet
in width may be required when the cul-de-sac helps provide adequate access to
schools, shopping centers, churches, or transportation facilities.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.604  UTILITIES.
   (A)   Easements.
      (1)   Utility easements shall be at least 20 feet wide, and shall run
along side or rear lot lines. Wider easements may be required if the topography
along the proposed right-of-way is such that maintenance equipment cannot
reasonably operate within the minimum 20-foot wide easement.
      (2)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a water-course, drainage way,
channel, or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater easement or drainage
right-of-way, conforming substantially with the lines of such watercourses, and
of such further width or construction, or both, as will be adequate for the
purpose. Lakes, ponds, watercourses, and the land immediately adjacent thereto
shall be considered for maintenance by the town only if sufficient land is
dedicated as a public recreation area or park, or if such area constitutes a
necessary part of the drainage control system. The town reserves the right to
reject any intended dedications.
   (B)   Ownership of utilities. All water, sanitary sewerage, electrical (when
in town's service area) and storm drainage facilities installed under the
requirements of this chapter shall become the sole property of the town upon
acceptance. A deed to the town for such facilities, including easements
pertaining to right-of-way entrance for maintenance, shall be executed prior to
connections to the respective municipal systems.
   (C)   Required additional capacity. Where the Town Board of Commissioners
deems it necessary, in the interest of the health, safety and general welfare
of the residents of the Town of Kenly and it's extraterritorial jurisdiction,
the applicant shall make certain improvements at sizes in excess of those which
would normally be required to serve only the applicant's subdivision. Where
oversized improvements are required, the town shall reimburse the applicant for
the cost of materials incurred over and above those required to serve the
applicant's subdivision. Such reimbursement shall be mutually agreed upon.
   (D)   Water distribution lines and sanitary sewers.
      (1)   Each lot in all subdivisions within the town's corporate limits,
and each lot in all subdivisions  in the extraterritorial jurisdiction within
500 feet of the town's water and/or sanitary sewer system shall be connected at
the applicant's expense to the town's water and/or sewer system.  In accordance
with §
50.02, the applicant shall pay an acreage fee for all property to be served by
a connection to the town's water and/or sanitary sewer system.
      (2)   Where a subdivision, in the extraterritorial jurisdiction lies more
than 500 feet from the municipal water and/or sewer system, the applicant may,
at the applicant's expense, connect the subdivision lots to the town's water
and/or sanitary sewer system. If the applicant provides a community water and/
or sewer system, rather than connecting to the municipal system, or provides
individual wells and/or septic tanks, the materials, design, and installation
shall be made in accordance with all applicable state and Johnston County
specifications and standards.
      (3)   Sanitary sewers shall be no smaller in size than 8 inches nominal
diameter. Water distribution lines shall be no smaller in size than 6 inches
nominal diameter, with the following exception: On cul-de-sacs which are served
by fire hydrants at their intersection with a local street, and the hydrant is
connected to a water line of 6 inches nominal diameter, or larger, water
service may be provided with lines smaller than 6 inches if a blow-off valve is
established at the end of such line, or the line is connected to another line
within the subdivision to form a loop. This exception shall not apply where
such line represents the interconnection between the subdivision and the
municipal system. On streets which are "stubbed out" at property lines to
permit future development, service must be provided by lines of at least 6
inches nominal diameter.
      (4)   Water systems in the extraterritorial jurisdiction not connected to
the town water system need not provide fire hydrants. However, such systems
shall be designed for future file flows so that when tied in with the town
system in the future, adequate flow for firefighting will be  available to
every lot in the subdivision. This provision will require that the main lines
be a minimum 6 inches in diameter, and that a hydrant tee and valve be provided
within 500 feet of each lot.
      (5)   For the purpose of this section, the term "water system" shall
include all appurtenances and fixtures normally associated with such
facilities, including fire hydrants, gate valves, blow-offs, manholes, and
pumping apparatus, but shall not include individual service meters, which shall
be installed by the town; the aforementioned appurtenances and fixtures shall
comply with the specifications and standards of the town.
   (E)   Storm drainage.
      (1)   The applicant shall provide an adequate drainage system for the
proper drainage of all surface water in order to protect the proposed
development from water damage. The design of such system shall be subject to
the approval of the Town Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   No surface water shall be channeled or directed into a sanitary
sewer.
      (3)   Where feasible, the applicant shall connect to the municipal storm
drainage system.
      (4)   Where the municipal storm drainage system cannot feasibly be
extended to the subdivision, a surface drainage system shall be designed to
complement surface drainage systems to surrounding properties.
      (5)   Cross pipes under streets and driveways shall be concrete,
reinforced concrete, or other pipe, as approved by the Town Manager. All such
cross pipes shall be a minimum of 15 inches in diameter.
      (6)   Surface drainage courses shall have side slopes of at least 1 foot
of horizontal distance for each foot of vertical distance.
      (7)   The minimum grade along the bottom of a surface drainage course
shall be a vertical fall of approximately 1 foot in each 300 feet of horizontal
distance.
   (F)   Electrical utilities. Electrical improvements in accordance with Town
of Kenly, South River EMC, or NC Progress Energy standards, whichever is
applicable, shall be required in all subdivisions.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.605  PUBLIC FACILITIES.
   (A)   School sites.
      (1)   When a subdivision plat is submitted for approval, in which,
according to the land use or land development plan, a school site should be
reserved, the Planning Director shall notify the County Board of Education that
the subdivision has been submitted for approval, and that under this chapter, a
school site may be reserved therein.
      (2)   In reviewing the subdivision and giving approval the Planning
Director shall consult the Board of Education in determining the exact size and
location of any school site to be reserved therein.
      (3)   Before the final plat of the subdivision is approved, the Board of
Education shall determine whether or not it wishes to have a school site
reserved in the subdivision. If the Board of Education does wish to have a
school site reserved in the subdivision, the subdivision as finally approved
shall reserve a school site of a size and location agreeable to the Board of
Education and to the Planning Board. The Board of Education shall then have 18
months, beginning on the date of the final approval of the subdivision, within
which to acquire the site. If the Board of Education has not purchased or begun
proceedings to acquire the site within 18 months after the subdivision is
finally approved, the applicant may proceed to dispose of it in accordance with
the subdivision procedure and provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Recreation and open space. The minimum recreation and open space
requirements for conventional and open space residential subdivisions are set
forth in §
156.203.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.606  PERMANENT REFERENCE POINTS.
   Prior to the approval of the final plat, iron stakes shall be installed on
all corners of the subdivision and at additional points in the subdivision, so
that no point within the subdivision lies more than 500 feet from a monument.
In addition, 2 or more control points shall be designated on the final plat.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.607  GUARANTEE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   No final plat will be accepted for review by the Planning Board or
Town Board of Commissioners unless accompanied by written notice by the Town
Manager, acknowledging compliance with divisions (B) and (C) below.
      (2)   If the subdivision is to be phased or developed in sections, the
Planning Board shall withhold final plat approval for the most recent phase
until improvements in prior stages have been completed or guaranteed.
   (B)   Performance guarantees. In lieu of prior construction of the
improvements required by this chapter, the town shall, for the purpose of
approving a final plat, accept a guarantee from the applicant that such
improvements will be carried out according to the town's specifications at the
applicant’s expense. Such guarantee may be in the form of a performance bond,
letter of credit, or certified check drawn in favor of the town or cash
deposited with the town. Such guarantee shall be in an amount of not less than
125% or more than 150% of the estimated cost of the construction of the
required improvements.  This amount shall be determined by the Town Manager.
Performance guarantees shall run for a period of 1 year upon written approval
of the Town Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   Performance bond. The town shall require a bond guaranteeing: street
improvements, curbs, gutters, drainage facilities, sidewalks, electrical
facilities, water and sewer lines and taps and all other improvements against
defects for 1 year from the date of final acceptance by the town. This bond
shall be in the amount determined by the Town Manager and shall be in cash,
certified check, or be made by a bonding/insurance company authorized to do
business in North Carolina.
   (D)   Town's right of inspection and acceptance.
      (1)   Whether the required improvements are performed prior to or
following approval of the final plat, the applicant shall grant to the town and
its assignees authority to inspect all construction of the required
improvements, and moreover, shall advise the town at least 2 days in advance of
beginning work on any of the various improvements. However, such right of
inspection shall not constitute duty to inspect, nor shall it guarantee final
acceptance by the town of any required improvements.
      (2)   If improvements are guaranteed by a bond or cash deposit, failure
by the applicant to perform the work to the town's standards shall free the
town, at the discretion of the Town Board of Commissioners, to liquidate the
bond or cash deposit, in order to finance the necessary repairs. This provision
shall extend through the 1-year warranty period. The town will provide the
applicant with a written notice of its intent to carry out this provision at
least 2 weeks prior to such liquidations, and shall also provide the applicant
during this period a hearing at a regularly scheduled meeting of the Town Board
of Commissioners.
      (3)   The town's final acceptance of required improvements in the event
of their construction following final plat approval shall be evidenced by a
written letter from the Town Manager as specifically authorized by the Town
Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 156.700  REVIEW BODIES.
   (A)   Town Board of Commissioners.
      (1)   Establishment and composition. The Town Board of Commissioners is
established and composed pursuant to Title III of the Town Charter.
      (2)   Powers and duties. In execution of the provisions of this chapter,
the Town Board of Commissioners shall be responsible for final action regarding
the following:
         (a)   Text amendments (§
156.703);
         (b)   Rezonings (§
156.704);
         (c)   Planned development review (§
156.705);
         (d)   Preliminary plat review (§
156.706);
         (e)   Special use review (§
156.711); and
         (f)   Zoning vested rights (§
156.718).
   (B)   Planning Board.
      (1)   Establishment and composition. The Planning Board is established
and composed pursuant to Title III of the Town Charter.
      (2)   Powers and duties. In execution of the provisions of this chapter,
the Planning Board shall have the following power and duties:
         (a)   General authority.
            1.   The Planning Board may exercise additional powers as may be
described elsewhere in this chapter and as permitted by North Carolina General
Statutes.
            2.   The Planning Board shall perform related duties as directed by
the Town Board of Commissioners.
         (b)   Review authority. The Planning Board shall make recommendations
regarding the following:
            1.   Text amendments (§
156.703);
            2.   Rezonings (§
156.704);
            3.   Planned development review (§
156.705);
            4.   Preliminary plat review (§
156.706); and
            5.   Special use review (§
156.711).
         (c)   Final authority. The Planning Board shall be responsible for
final action regarding the following:
            1.   Major site plan review (§
156.707); and
            2.   Sign permits for signs 8 feet in height or taller (§
156.713).
   (C)   Board of Adjustment.
      (1)   Establishment. The Board of Adjustment is established pursuant to
G.S. § 160A-388.
      (2)   Composition.
         (a)   Number and term.
            1.   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of 5 members, each to be
appointed for 3 years.
            2.   In appointing the original members or in the filling of
vacancies caused by the expiration of the terms of existing members, the Town
Board of Commissioners may appoint certain members for less than 3 years to the
end that thereafter the terms of all members shall not expire at the same time.
         (b)   Membership.
            1.   Membership on the Board of Adjustment shall include
representatives from the extraterritorial jurisdiction.
            2.   Any member of the Board of Adjustment representing the
extraterritorial jurisdiction shall be appointed by the Town Board of
Commissioners, subject to approval by the Johnston County Board of County
Commissioners.
         (c)   Alternate members.
            1.   The Town Board of Commissioners may, in its discretion,
appoint and provide compensation for 2 alternate members to serve on the Board
of Adjustment in the absence of any regular member. One alternate member shall
be from the Town of Kenly and 1 alternate member shall be from the
extraterritorial jurisdiction.
            2.   Alternate members shall be appointed for the same term, at the
same time, and in the same manner as regular members.
            3.   Each alternate member, while attending any regular or special
meeting and serving in the absence of any regular member, shall have and may
exercise all the powers and duties of a regular member. Three unexcused
absences shall constitute a vacancy to be filled by the Town Board of
Commissioners at the next regularly scheduled meeting.
      (3)   Proceedings.
         (a)   Meetings. All meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held
at a regular place and shall be open to the public.
         (b)   Minutes. The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of
proceedings in a book maintained for that purpose only, showing the vote of
each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, an indication
of such fact; and final disposition of appeals shall be by recorded resolution,
indicating the reasons of the Board, all of which shall be a public record.
         (c)   Quorum. No final action shall be taken on any issue unless a
quorum is present.
      (4)   Powers and duties. In execution of the provisions of this chapter,
the Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers and duties.
         (a)   General authority. The Board of Adjustment may exercise
additional powers as may be described elsewhere in this chapter and as
permitted by North Carolina General Statutes.
         (b)   Final authority. The Board of Adjustment shall be responsible
for final action regarding the following:
            1.   Variances (§
156.716);
            2.   Administrative appeals (§
156.717); and
            3.   Interpretation of zoning district boundaries.
   (D)   Planning Director.
      (1)   Designation. The Planning Director shall administer certain
provisions of this chapter as may be required below.
      (2)   Delegation of authority. The Planning Director may designate any
staff member to represent the Planning Director in any function assigned by
this chapter but shall remain responsible for any final action.
      (3)   Powers and duties. In execution of the provisions of this chapter,
the Planning Director shall have the following powers and duties:
         (a)   General authority.
            1.   The Planning Director may exercise additional powers as may be
described elsewhere in this chapter and as permitted by North Carolina General
Statutes.
            2.   The Planning Director shall perform related duties as directed
by the Town Board of Commissioners.
         (b)   Review authority. The Planning Director shall make
recommendations regarding the following:
            1.   Text amendments (§
156.703);
            2.   Rezoning (§
156.704);
            3.   Planned development review (§
156.705);
            4.   Preliminary plat review (§
156.706);
            5.   Minor plat review;
            6.   Major site plan review (§
156.707);
            7.   Conditional use review (§
156.710);
            8.   Special use review (§
156.711);
            9.   Sign permits for signs 8 feet in height or taller (§
156.713);
            10.   Variances (§
156.716); and
            11.   Zoning vested rights (§
156.718).
         (c)   Final authority. The Planning Director shall be responsible for
final action regarding the following:
            1.   Minor plat review (§
156.706);
            2.   Final plat review (§
156.706);
            3.   Minor site plan review (§
156.707);
            4.   Traffic impact analyses (§
156.708);
            5.   Zoning permits (§
156.709);
            6.   Temporary use permits (§
156.712);
            7.   Sign permits for signs under 8 feet in height (§
156.713);
            8.   Common signage plans (§
156.714); and
            9.   Written interpretations (§
156.715).
   (E)   Technical Review Committee.
      (1)   Establishment and composition. The Technical Review Committee is
established and composed pursuant to Title III of the Town Charter.
      (2)   Powers and duties. In execution of the provisions of the chapter,
the Technical Review Committee shall have the following powers and duties:
         (a)   Review Authority. The Technical Review Committee shall make
recommendations regarding the following:
            1.   Planned development review (§
156.705);
            2.   Minor plat review (§
156.706);
            3.   Preliminary plat review (§
156.706);
            4.   Final plat review (§
156.706);
            5.   Minor site plan review(§
156.707); and
            6.   Major site plan review (§
156.707).
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.701  SUMMARY OF REVIEW AUTHORITY.
   The following table summarizes review and approval authority under this
chapter.
 Technical                     Board of
 Review    Planning Director  Adjustment Planning Board  Town Board of Commissioners   
 Committee PD                  BOA        PB               TC
 TRC
               Technical                     Board of
               Review    Planning Director  Adjustment Planning Board  Town Board of Commissioners   
               Committee PD                  BOA        PB               TC
               TRC
Text amendment          review                        review           <decision >                      §
                                                                                                          156.703
Rezoning                review                        review           <decision>                       §
                                                                                                          156.704
Planned        review    review                        review           <decision>                       §
development                                                                                               156.705
Minor plat     decision                                                                               §
review                                                                                                    156.706
Preliminary    review    review                        review           <decision>                       §
plat review                                                                                               156.706
Final plat     review    decision                                                                      §
review                                                                                                    156.706
Minor site     review    decision                                                                      §
plan review                                                                                               156.707
Major site     review    review                        decision                                         §
plan review                                                                                               156.707
Traffic impact                                                                                       §
analysis                                                                                                  156.708
Zoning permit           decision                                                                      §
                                                                                                          156.709
Special use             review                        review           <decision>                       §
review                                                                                                    156.711
Temporary use           decision                                                                      §
permit                                                                                                    156.712
Sign permit             decision                                                                      §
(under 8 feet)                                                                                            156.713
Sign permit (8                                                                                            §
feet or                 review                        decision                                         156.713
taller)
Common signage          decision                                                                      §
plan                                                                                                      156.714
Written                 decision                                                                      §
interpretation                                                                                            156.715
Variance                review              <decision>                                                 §
                                                                                                          156.716
Administrative                             <decision>                                                 §
appeal                                                                                                    156.717
Zoning vested           review                                        <decision >                      §
right                                                                                                     156.718
 
   <Public hearing required>
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.702  COMMON REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Pre-application conference.
      (1)   Before submitting an application for development approval, each
applicant may schedule a pre-application conference with the Planning Director
to discuss the procedures, standards and regulations required for development
approval in accordance with this chapter.
      (2)   A pre-application conference with the Planning Director shall be
required for the following:
         (a)   Rezoning (§
156.704);
         (b)   Planned development review (§
156.705);
         (c)   Subdivision review (§
156.706);
         (d)   Site plan review (§
156.707);
         (e)   Traffic impact analysis (§
156.708);
         (f)   Conditional use review (§
156.710); and
         (g)   Special use review (§
156.711).
   (B)   Neighborhood meeting.
      (1)   After the pre-application conference and prior to final acceptance
of an application by the Planning Director, the applicant shall hold a
mandatory neighborhood meeting for the following:
         (a)   Rezonings not in compliance with adopted plans and policies of
the town (§
156.704);
         (b)   Planned development review (§
156.705);
         (c)   Major subdivision review, open space subdivision only (§
156.706);
         (d)   Major site plan review (§
156.707); and
         (e)   Special use review (§
156.711).
      (2)   Only the initial application for planned development review shall
require a neighborhood meeting. Subsequent applications for subdivision or site
plan review do not require further neighborhood meetings.
      (3)   The purpose of the neighborhood meeting shall be to inform the
neighborhood of the nature of the proposed land use and development features,
explain the site plan if any, and solicit comments.
      (4)   The applicant shall provide notice by mail in accordance with
division (D)(2)(c) below. The notice shall be mailed at least 10 days, but not
more than 25 days, prior to the date of the neighborhood meeting.
      (5)   The applicant shall prepare and submit to the Planning Director a
meeting summary that outlines attendance, major points discussed, and any
agreements reached between the parties involved.
      (6)   The Planning Director may alter the neighborhood meeting procedures
in cases where there are absentee land owners, limited number of land owners,
or other situations they may limit the ability of adjoining property owners to
attend the meeting.
   (C)   Application requirements.
      (1)   Forms. Applications required under this chapter shall be submitted
on forms and in such numbers as required by the Planning Director.
      (2)   Fees.
         (a)   All applications and associated fees shall be filed with the
Planning Director.
         (b)   Filing fees shall be established from time to time to defray the
actual cost of processing the application, as listed in the town's fee
schedule.
         (c)   An applicant who has paid the appropriate fee pursuant to the
submission of an application, but who chooses to withdraw such application
prior to its distribution for review shall be entitled to a refund of the total
amount paid, less 10% for administrative costs, upon written request to the
appropriate department. Once review has begun, no refund shall be available,
except that unused notice surcharges shall be refunded less 10% for
administrative purposes.
      (3)   Applications sufficient for processing.
         (a)   All applications shall be sufficient for processing before the
Planning Director is required to review the application.
         (b)   An application shall be sufficient for processing when it
contains all of the information necessary to decide whether or not the
development as proposed will comply with all of the requirements of this
chapter.
         (c)   The presumption shall be that all of the information required in
the application forms is necessary to satisfy the requirements of this section.
However, it is recognized that each application is unique, and therefore more
or less information may be required according to the needs of the particular
case. The applicant may rely on the recommendations of the appropriate
department as to whether more or less information should be submitted.
         (d)   Once the application has been determined sufficient for
processing, copies of the application shall be referred by the Planning
Director to the appropriate reviewing entities.
         (e)   The Planning Director may require an applicant to present
evidence of authority to submit the application.
      (4)   Application deadline. Applications sufficient for processing shall
be submitted to the Planning Director in accordance with the published calendar
schedule. Schedules indicating submittal dates shall be developed each year and
made available to the public.
      (5)   Staff consultation after application submitted.
         (a)   Upon receipt of an application sufficient for processing, the
Planning Director shall review the application and confer with the applicant to
ensure an understanding of the applicable requirements of this chapter; that
the applicant has submitted all of the information they intend to submit; and
that the application represents precisely and completely what the applicant
proposes to do.
         (b)   Once the applicant indicates that the application is as complete
as the applicant intends to make it, the application shall be placed on the
agenda of the appropriate review board in accordance with standard procedures.
However, if the Planning Director believes the application is incomplete, a
recommendation to deny the application on that basis shall be provided to the
appropriate reviewing entity.
      (6)   Concurrent applications.
         (a)   If approved by the Planning Director, applications for
development approvals may be filed and reviewed concurrently. Any application
that also requires a variance shall not be eligible for final approval until
the variance has been granted.
         (b)   Applications submitted concurrently are subject to approval of
all other related applications; denial or disapproval of any concurrently
submitted application shall stop consideration of any related applications
until the denied or disapproved application is resolved.
   (D)   Notice and public hearings.
      (1)   Summary of notice required. Notice shall be required for
applications for approval as shown in the table below.
 Published Mailed Posted
                       Published Mailed Posted
Text amendment         X                       §
                                               156.703
Rezoning               X         X      X      §
                                               156.704
Planned development    X         X      X      §
                                               156.705
Preliminary plat       X         X      X      §
                                               156.706
Major site plan                         X      §
                                               156.707
Conditional use review X         X      X      §
                                               156.710
Special use review     X         X      X      §
                                               156.711
Variance               X         X      X      §
                                               156.716
 
      (2)   Public notice requirements.
         (a)   Published notice. Where published notice is required, a
distinctive advertisement shall be placed by the town in a local newspaper of
general circulation once a week for 2 successive calendar weeks, the first
notice being published not less than 10 days nor more than 25 days before the
date fixed for the public hearing.
         (b)   Posted notice (sign). Where posted notice is required, a sign
shall be posted by the Planning Director not less than 10 days prior to the
public hearing at which the application shall be reviewed. The sign shall be
posted on the property or at a point visible from the nearest public street.
         (c)   Mailed notice.
            1.   Where mailed notice is required, the applicant shall notify by
first-class mail (at the last addresses listed for such owners in the county
tax records) all property owners within and immediately abutting the subject
property. Where the subject property immediately adjoins a public or private
right-of-way, landscape or riparian buffer, commonly-owned private area, public
property, or homeowners' association property, then letters of notification
shall be sent to adjoining property owners as if they directly abut the subject
property. The applicant mailing such notices shall certify to the Town Board of
Commissioners that fact, and such certificate shall be deemed conclusive in the
absence of fraud.
            2.   The notice shall be mailed at least 10 but not more than 25
days prior to the date of the public hearing.
            3.   Mailed notice under this section shall not be required if a
rezoning (including a planned development rezoning) directly affects more than
50 properties owned by a total of at least 50 different property owners, and
the town elects to use the following expanded notice requirements:
               a.   Published notice of the hearing shall be provided as set
forth in division (a) above. The advertisement shall not be less than ½ of a
newspaper page in size.
               b.   Mailed notice of the hearing shall be provided (as set
forth in divisions (c)1. and (c)2. above) to all property owners who reside
outside of the newspaper's circulation area.
         (d)   Content of notice. The notice listed above shall contain the
following specific information:
            1.   Published or mailed notice. A published or mailed notice shall
provide at least the following:
               a.   Parcel Identification Number;
               b.   The address of the subject property (if available);
               c.   The general location of the land that is the subject of the
application, which may include a location map;
               d.   A description of the action requested;
               e.   Where a rezoning is proposed, the current and proposed
districts;
               f.   The time, date and location of the public hearing;
               g.   A phone number to contact the town; and
               h.   A statement that interested parties may appear at the
public hearing.
            2.   Posted notice. Required posted notices shall indicate the
following:
               a.   A case number;
               b.   Type of action; and
               c.   A phone number to contact the town.
      (3)   Constructive notice. Minor defects in notice shall not impair the
notice or invalidate proceedings pursuant to the notice if a bona fide attempt
has been made to comply with applicable notice requirements.
   (E)   Required hearings. A public hearing shall be required for development
review as shown in the table below.
 Board of Adjustment Town Board of Commissioners
 BOA                 TC
                           Board of Adjustment Town Board of
                           BOA                 Commissioners
                                               TC
Text amendment                                 X             §
                                                             156.703
Rezoning                                       X             §
                                                             156.704
Planned development review                     X             §
                                                             156.705
Preliminary plat                               X             §
                                                             156.706
Conditional use review     X                                 §
                                                             156.710
Special use review                             X             §
                                                             156.711
Variance                   X                                 §
                                                             156.716
 
   (F)   Decisions. Unless specifically provided elsewhere, all decisions on
land use changes, including rezonings, shall require an affirmative vote. Tie
votes shall be considered denials of any requested change.
   (G)   Notice of decision. Within 14 days after a decision is made, a copy of
the decision shall be sent to the applicant and filed with the Planning
Director, where it shall be available for public inspection during regular
office hours.
   (H)   Withdrawal of application.
      (1)   An applicant may withdraw an application at any time, by filing a
statement of withdrawal with the Planning Director.
      (2)   The statement of withdrawal shall be signed by all persons who
signed the application, or in the event of death or incompetence, by the
estate's lawful personal representative.
      (3)   If a valid zoning protest petition shall have been filed, the
application may be withdrawn only if the statement of withdrawal is filed no
later than 5 days prior to the date of the Town Board  of Commissioners hearing
date upon which the matter is to be returned for action by the Town Board of
Commissioners. Thereafter, the application may be withdrawn only by leave of
the Town Board of Commissioners, by majority vote.
      (4)   The Planning Director may withdraw applications due to failure of
the applicant to submit required information within 90 days of the initial
request.
      (5)   An applicant may postpone a scheduled public hearing once per
application for up to 90 days after the date the first public hearing was
scheduled to occur, after which the Planning Director may withdraw the
application.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.703  TEXT AMENDMENT.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)    Amendments to the text of this chapter shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   The Town Board of Commissioners shall consider amendments to the
text of this chapter, as may be required from time to time.
   (B)   Initiation of amendment. A request to amend the text of this chapter
may be initiated by the Town Board of Commissioners, Board of Adjustment,
Planning Board, Planning Director, or the general public.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-69.png]
   (C)   Application requirements. Applications for a text amendment shall be
submitted in accordance with §
156.702.
   (D)   Notice and public hearings. The town shall hold all required public
hearings and give notice in accordance with §
156.702.
   (E)   Action by Planning Director.
      (1)   The Planning Director shall draft the appropriate amendment and
prepare a staff report that reviews the proposed text amendment request.
      (2)   Following completion of technical review by staff, the Planning
Director shall forward the completed request and any related materials to the
Planning Board for a recommendation.
   (F)   Action by Planning Board.
      (1)   The Planning Board shall make a recommendation on the application
to the Town Board of Commissioners. If the Planning Board fails to make a
recommendation, the Town Board of Commissioners may process the request without
a recommendation.
      (2)   Following Planning Board review, the Planning Director shall
forward the completed request and any related materials, including the Planning
Board recommendation (if applicable), to the Town Board of Commissioners for
final action.
   (G)   Action by Town Board of Commissioners.
      (1)   Before taking action on a text amendment, the Town Board of
Commissioners shall consider the recommendations of the Planning Board and
Planning Director.
      (2)   The Town Board of Commissioners may approve the amendment, deny the
amendment, or send the amendment back to the Planning Board for additional
consideration.
   (H)   Approval criteria.
      (1)   In evaluating any proposed amendment of the text of this chapter,
the Planning Board and the Town Board of Commissioners shall consider the
following:
         (a)   The extent to which the proposed text amendment is consistent
with the remainder of the chapter, including, specifically, any purpose and
intent statements;
         (b)   The extent to which the proposed text amendment represents a new
idea not considered in the existing chapter, or represents a revision
necessitated by changing circumstances over time;
         (c)   Whether or not the proposed text amendment corrects an error in
the chapter; and
         (d)   Whether or not the proposed text amendment revises the chapter
to comply with state or federal statutes or case law.
      (2)   In deciding whether to adopt a proposed text amendment to this
chapter, the central issue before the Town Board of Commissioners is whether
the proposed amendment advances the public health, safety or welfare and is
consistent with the adopted plans and policies of the town and the specific
intent of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.704  REZONING.
   (A)    Applicability.
      (1)   Amendments to the Zoning Map shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
      (2)   The Town Board of Commissioners shall consider amendments to the
Zoning Map, as may be required from time to time.
      (3)   Rezonings should correspond with the boundary lines of existing
platted lots or parcels. Where the boundaries of a rezoning request stop short
of an exterior property line, it must be possible to subdivide and develop that
portion of the property outside the proposed rezoning boundary in accordance
with the existing zoning and other requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   All zoning requirements shall be met within the boundaries of the
area being rezoned. If all of the requirements cannot be met on the site being
rezoned, prior to advertisement of the public hearing, the rezoning shall be
expanded to include all property necessary to meet zoning requirements.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-71.png]
   (B)   Initiation of amendment.
      (1)   A request for a rezoning may be initiated by the Town Board of
Commissioners, the Planning Board, or the Planning Director.
      (2)   An owner of land within the jurisdiction of the town (or a duly
authorized agent or representative) may petition the Town Board of
Commissioners for a rezoning.
   (C)   Pre-application conference. All applicants petitioning for a rezoning
shall schedule a pre-application conference with the Planning Director in
accordance with §
156.702.
   (D)   Neighborhood meeting. All applicants petitioning for a rezoning shall
hold a neighborhood meeting in accordance with §
156.702.
   (E)   Application requirements. All applications for a rezoning shall be
submitted in accordance with §
156.702.
   (F)   Notice and public hearings. The town shall hold all required public
hearings and give notice in accordance with §
156.702.
   (G)   Action by Planning Director.
      (1)   The Planning Director shall prepare a staff report that reviews the
rezoning request in light of the adopted plans and policies of the town and the
general requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Following completion of technical review by staff, the Planning
Director shall forward the completed request and any related materials to the
Planning Board.
   (H)   Action by Planning Board.
      (1)   The Planning Board shall make a recommendation on the application
to the Town Board of Commissioners. The Planning Board's recommendation shall
include a written statement to the Town Board of Commissioners describing
whether its recommendation is consistent with the adopted plans and policies of
the town. If the Planning Board fails to make a recommendation, the Town Board
of Commissioners may process the request without a recommendation.
      (2)   Following Planning Board review, the Planning Director shall
forward the completed rezoning request and any related materials, including the
Planning Board recommendation (if applicable), to the Town Board of
Commissioners for final action.
   (I)   Action by Town Board of Commissioners.
      (1)   Before taking action on a rezoning, the Town Board of Commissioners
shall consider the recommendations of the Planning Board and Planning Director.
      (2)   The Town Board of Commissioners may approve the rezoning, deny the
rezoning, or send the rezoning back to the Planning Director for additional
consideration.
      (3)   Concurrently with adopting, denying, or remanding any rezoning, the
Town Board of Commissioners shall adopt a statement describing whether its
action is consistent with the adopted plans and polices of the town and
explaining why the Town Board of Commissioners considers the action taken to be
reasonable and in the public interest.
   (J)   Approval criteria. No rezoning may be approved by the Town Board of
Commissioners unless all of the following criteria are satisfied:
      (1)   Consistency with the adopted plans and policies of the town;
      (2)   Suitability of the subject property for uses permitted by the
current versus the proposed district;
      (3)   Whether the proposed change tends to improve the balance of uses,
or meets a specific demand in the town;
      (4)   The capacity of adequate public facilities and services including
schools, roads, recreation facilities wastewater treatment and water supply
facilities and stormwater drainage facilities for the proposed use;
      (5)   It has been determined that the legal purposes for which zoning
exists are not contravened;
      (6)   It has been determined that there will be no adverse effect upon
adjoining property owners unless such effect can be justified by the
overwhelming public good or welfare; and
      (7)   It has been determined that no 1 property owner or small group of
property owners will benefit materially from the change to the detriment of the
general public.
   (K)   Protest to zoning change.
      (1)   If a petition opposing a change in the rezoning is filed in
accordance with the provisions of this section, then the proposed rezoning may
be adopted only by a favorable vote of at least ¾ of the Town Board of
Commissioners.
      (2)   To qualify as a protest under this section, the petition must:
         (a)   Be signed by the owners of either:
            1.   Twenty percent or more of the area included in the proposed
change; or
            2.   Five percent or more of the area of a 100-foot wide buffer
extending along the entire boundary of each discrete or separate area proposed
to be rezoned.
            3.   Street right-of-way shall not be considered in computing the
100-foot buffer area, except where the street right-of-way is wider than 100
feet. When less than an entire parcel of land is subject to the proposed
rezoning, the 100-foot buffer shall be measured from the property line of that
parcel. For the purposes of this section, the 'owners' are those listed on the
county tax listing.
         (b)   Be a written petition actually bearing the signatures and
addresses of the requisite number of property owners and stating that the
signers do protest the proposed change.
         (c)   Be received by the Town Clerk at least 10 days before the date
established for a public hearing on the rezoning to allow the Town Clerk's
determination of the sufficiency and accuracy of the petition.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-73.png]
 
   (L)   Modification of application. An applicant in a zoning matter may
reduce the geographic scope and/or propose a district of lower density or
intensity from that requested in the application by filing a statement of
modification with the Planning Director.
   (M)   Time lapse between similar applications.
      (1)   In the event of a withdrawal of an application during Town Board of
Commissioners review on the merits, no application may be filed requesting the
rezoning of any parcel contained in the withdrawn application prior to the
expiration of a minimum period of 6 months from the withdrawal of the
application. Where the application is withdrawn prior to the required public
hearing, no expiration period shall be imposed on a new application.
      (2)   When the Town Board of Commissioners has voted on a zoning
application and the proposed rezoning has either been denied or has failed to
be adopted by the vote required in the event of a valid protest petition, then
the application shall be deemed to have expired.
      (3)   No subsequent application requesting a zoning change for any parcel
contained in an  application which has expired may be made prior to the
expiration of a minimum period of 6 months from the date of expiration.
      (4)   No subsequent application requesting the same zoning district for
any parcel contained in an application which has expired may be filed prior to
the expiration of a minimum period of 1 year from the expiration.
      (5)   The Town Board of Commissioners, by a ¾ majority vote, may waive
the time-lapse requirements of this section if the Town Board of Commissioners
deems it to be in the public interest to do so.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.705  PLANNED DEVELOPMENT REVIEW.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   Planned development review shall occur in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
      (2)   The Town Board of Commissioners shall consider planned development
rezonings, as may be required from time to time.
      (3)   All requirements shall be met within the boundaries of the area
being rezoned. If all of the requirements cannot be met on the site being
rezoned, prior to advertisement of the public hearing, the rezoning shall be
expanded to include all property necessary to meet zoning requirements.
   (B)   Initiation of amendment. An owner of land within the jurisdiction of
the town (or a duly authorized agent or representative) may petition the Town
Board of Commissioners for planned development rezoning.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-75.png]
 
   (C)   Pre-application conference. All applicants petitioning for planned
development rezoning shall schedule a pre-application conference with the
Planning Director in accordance with §
156.702.
   (D)   Neighborhood meeting. All applicants petitioning for planned
development rezoning shall hold a neighborhood meeting in accordance with §
156.702.
   (E)   Application requirements.
      (1)   Concurrent with a request for planned development rezoning, an
applicant shall submit a master plan to govern the development and maintenance
of the land within the planned development. The master plan shall be prepared
by a professionally certified landscape architect, engineer or architect.
      (2)   All applications for planned development rezoning shall be
submitted in accordance with §
156.702.
      (3)   A master plan which meets the requirements for submittal of a
preliminary plat may be approved as the master plan for the development and the
preliminary plat concurrently.
      (4)   A traffic impact analysis may be required if the proposed planned
development meets the thresholds established in §
156.708.
   (F)   Notice and public hearings. The town shall hold all required public
hearings and give notice in accordance with §
156.702.
   (G)   Action by Planning Director.
      (1)   Upon submission of a completed application, the Planning Director
shall schedule the master plan for review by the Technical Review Committee.
The Technical Review Committee shall review the master plan for consistency
with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Upon completion of the technical review, the Planning Director may
meet with the applicant to discuss any changes in development design.
      (3)   The Planning Director shall prepare a staff report that reviews the
application in light of comments provided by the Technical Review Committee, in
light of the adopted plans and policies of the town, and the general
requirements of this chapter. The report, master plan and any related
application materials shall be forwarded to the Planning Board.
   (H)   Action by Planning Board.
      (1)   The Planning Board shall make a recommendation on the application
to the Town Board of Commissioners. The Planning Board's recommendation shall
include a written statement to the Town Board of Commissioners describing
whether its recommendation is consistent with the adopted plans and policies of
the town. If the Planning Board fails to make a recommendation, the Town Board
of Commissioners may process the request without a recommendation.
      (2)   Following Planning Board review, the Planning Director shall
forward the completed planned development request and any related materials,
including the Planning Board recommendation (if applicable), to the Town Board
of Commissioners for final action.
   (I)   Action by Town Board of Commissioners.
      (1)   Before taking action on a planned development rezoning, the Town
Board of Commissioners shall consider the recommendations of the Planning Board
and Planning Director.
      (2)   The Town Board of Commissioners may approve the rezoning, deny the
rezoning, or send the rezoning back to the Planning Director for additional
consideration.
      (3)   Concurrently with adopting, denying, or remanding any rezoning, the
Town Board of Commissioners shall adopt a statement describing whether its
action is consistent with the adopted plans and polices of the town and
explaining why the Town Board of Commissioners considers the action taken to be
reasonable and in the public interest.
      (4)   A master plan which meets the requirements for submittal of a
preliminary plat may be approved as the master plan for the development and the
preliminary plat concurrently.
   (J)   Rezoning approval criteria. No rezoning may be approved by the Town
Board of Commissioners unless all of the following criteria are satisfied:
      (1)   Consistency with the adopted plans and policies of the town;
      (2)   Suitability of the subject property for uses permitted by the
current versus the proposed district;
      (3)   Whether the proposed change tends to improve the balance of uses,
or meets a specific demand in the town;
      (4)   The capacity of adequate public facilities and services including
schools, roads, recreation facilities wastewater treatment and water supply
facilities and stormwater drainage facilities for the proposed use;
      (5)   It has been determined that the legal purposes for which zoning
exists are not contravened;
      (6)   It has been determined that there will be no adverse effect upon
adjoining property owners unless such effect can be justified by the
overwhelming public good or welfare; and
      (7)   It has been determined that no 1 property owner or small group of
property owners will benefit materially from the change to the detriment of the
general public.
   (K)   Master plan approval criteria. The master plan review shall include
and the applicant shall be responsible for successfully addressing the
following:
      (1)   Compliance with §
156.203, and all other applicable requirements of this chapter;
      (2)   Consistency with the Kenly General Design Guidelines;
      (3)   Conformance of the proposal with the stated purpose of the
requested planned development district;
      (4)   Compatibility of the proposed development with the adjacent
community;
      (5)   The quality of design intended for each component of the project
and the ability of the overall development plan to ensure a unified, cohesive
environment at full build-out;
      (6)   Compatible relationships between each component of the overall
project;
      (7)   Self-sufficiency of each phase of the overall project;
      (8)   Documentation that the proposed infrastructure improvements
accommodate the additional impacts caused by the development, or documentation
to assure that the development, as proposed, will not overtax the existing
public infrastructure systems;
      (9)   The fiscal impact of the proposal and the proposed financing of
required improvements;
      (10)   The success of the proposal in providing adequate pedestrian and
bicycle links within the development and with the adjacent community; and
      (11)   The effectiveness with which the proposal protects and preserves
the ecologically sensitive areas within the development.
   (L)   Protest to zoning change.
      (1)   If a petition opposing a change in the rezoning is filed in
accordance with the provisions of this section, then the proposed rezoning may
be adopted only by a favorable vote of at least ¾ of the Town Board of
Commissioners.
      (2)   To qualify as a protest under this section, the petition must:
         (a)   Be signed by the owners of either:
            1.   Twenty percent or more of the area included in the proposed
change; or
            2.   Five percent or more of the area of a 100-foot wide buffer
extending along the entire boundary of each discrete or separate area proposed
to be rezoned.
            3.   Street right-of-way shall not be considered in computing the
100-foot buffer area, except where the street right-of-way is wider than 100
feet. When less than an entire parcel of land is subject to the proposed
rezoning, the 100-foot buffer shall be measured from the property line of that
parcel. For the purposes of this section, the 'owners' are those listed on the
county tax listing.
         (b)   Be a written petition actually bearing the signatures and
addresses of the requisite number of property owners and stating that the
signers do protest the proposed change.
         (c)   Be received by the Town Clerk at least 10 days before the date
established for a public hearing on the rezoning to allow the Town Clerk's
determination of the sufficiency and accuracy of the petition.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-77.png]
   (M)    Action after approval.
      (1)    Upo n approval of a planned development rezoning by the Town Board
of Commissioners, and on recordation of the approved master plan, the district
is deemed established. All  documents (including the approved master plan)
shall be an integral part of the approved proposal.
      (2)   The approved planned development and associated master plan shall
run with the land and shall be binding on the original applicant as well as any
successors, assigns and heirs. The approved master plan shall be recorded in
the Johnston County Register of Deeds office and the Zoning Map amended.
      (3)   Approval of a planned development rezoning and associated master
plan does not constitute site plan approval or subdivision approval (if the
property is to be further subdivided), except where the master plan meets the
requirements for and is approved as a preliminary plat.
      (4)   Property to be further subdivided shall obtain approval in
accordance with §
156.706. Where a preliminary plat has been approved, the applicant may move
forward to provide construction plans and a final plat.
      (5)   Property not to be further subdivided shall obtain site plan
approval as set forth in §
156.707.
      (6)   Conditional uses not shown on the approved master plan require
approval in accordance with §
156.710.
      (7)   Special uses not shown on the approved master plan require approval
in accordance §
156.711.
   (N)   Time lapse between similar applications.
      (1)   In the event of a withdrawal of an application prior to action by
the Town Board of Commissioners, no application may be filed requesting the
same planned development contained in the withdrawn application prior to the
expiration of a minimum period of 6 months from the withdrawal of the
application.
      (2)   When the Town Board of Commissioners has voted on a planned
development and the proposed rezoning has either been denied or has failed to
be adopted by the vote required in the event of a valid protest petition, then
the application shall be deemed to have expired.
      (3)   No subsequent application requesting a planned development for any
parcel contained in an application which has expired may be made prior to the
expiration of a minimum period of 6 months from the date of expiration.
      (4)   No subsequent application requesting the same zoning category for
any parcel contained in an application which has expired may be filed prior to
the expiration of a minimum period of 1 year from the expiration.
      (5)   The Town Board of Commissioners, by a ¾ majority vote, may waive
the time-lapse requirements of this section if the Town Board of Commissioners
deems it to be in the public interest to do so.
   (O)   Approved master plan modifications.
      (1)   Amendments to an approved master plan, if minor in scope, may be
approved administratively by the Planning Director. Minor changes shall include
up to 10% modifications to the original mixture of uses (so long as the minimum
and maximum stated are maintained), minor adjustments to phasing (as long as
the quantity of phases remains), and the realignment of internal roadways.
Minor changes to the sign, lighting, and landscape requirements may also be
approved administratively by the Planning Director.
      (2)   Major modifications shall require resubmittal to the Town Board of
Commissioners. These shall include the addition of land modifications to the
originally approved mixture of uses in excess of 10%, a change in the number of
phases within the development, and the addition or deletion of main vehicular
entrances serving the development or their relocation. Major modifications
shall also include any proposed revisions that are deemed by the Planning
Director to be inconsistent with the adopted plans and policies of the town.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.706  SUBDIVISION REVIEW.
   (A)   Applicability. Subdivision approval shall be required before the
division of land (for any purpose) into 2 or more parcels, except as expressly
exempted below.
   (B)   Actions exempt from subdivision requirements. The following shall not
be considered "subdivision" subject to review under this section:
      (1)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and the resulting lots are equal to or exceed the standards of this chapter;
      (2)   The division of land into parcels greater than 10 acres where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved;
      (3)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for water or
sewer infrastructure or the widening or opening of streets;
      (4)   The division of a site in single ownership whose entire area is no
greater than 2 acres into not more than 3 lots, where no street right-of-way
dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the
standards of this chapter.
   (C)   No subdivision without plat approval.
      (1)   No person may subdivide land except in accordance with all of the
provisions of this chapter. In particular, no subdivision may occur unless and
until a final plat of the subdivision has been approved in accordance with the
provisions of this section and recorded in the Johnston County Registry.
      (2)   The Johnston County Register of Deeds shall not record a plat of
any subdivision within the town's planning jurisdiction unless the plat has
been approved in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Not all divisions of land constitute subdivisions that are subject
to regulation under this chapter. However, to ensure that such divisions are in
fact exempt from the requirements of this chapter, all plats creating a
division of land shall be presented to the Planning Director before recordation
in the Johnston County Registry and the Planning Director shall indicate on the
face of the plat that the division is exempt from the provisions of this
chapter if that is the case.
      (4)   No street shall be maintained or accepted by the town, or shall any
street lights, water, or sewer be extended to or connected with any subdivision
of land, or shall any permit be issued by any administrative agent or
department of the town for the construction of any building or other
improvements requiring permit, upon any land for which a plat is to be
approved, unless and until the requirements set forth in this chapter have been
complied with.
   (D)   Delegation of authority. The Town Board of Commissioners delegates
review and approval authority for all minor plats and final plats to the
Planning Director, with review by the Technical Review Committee.
   (E)   Unlawful to record plat without final or minor plat approval. It shall
be unlawful to offer and cause to be recorded any final plat within the town
limits of Kenly with the Johnston County Register of Deeds unless the plat
bears the endorsement and approval of the Planning Director or Town Clerk.
   (F)   Definitions.
      (1)   Minor subdivision.
         (a)   A minor subdivision is a subdivision that does not involve any
of the following:
            1.   Creation of a total of more than 5 lots;
            2.   Creation of any new public streets;
            3.   Extension of any water or sewer lines;
            4.   Installation of drainage improvements through 1 or more lots
to serve 1 or more other lots; or
            5.   A traffic impact analysis as established in §
156.708.
         (b)   Minor subdivisions requires minor plat review and final plat
review.
      (2)   Major subdivision.
         (a)   All other divisions of land not exempted in division (B) above
or listed in division (F)(1) above shall be considered major subdivisions.
         (b)   Major subdivisions require preliminary plat approval and final
plat approval.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-79.png]
 
   (G)   Pre-application conference and sketch plan.
      (1)   All applicants seeking subdivision approval shall schedule a pre-
application conference with the Planning Director, in accordance with §
156.702.
      (2)   At the time of the pre-application conference, applicants shall
submit a sketch plan for review by the Planning Director. This plan should, in
simple sketch form, show the proposed layout of streets, lots and other
features in relation to existing conditions (see Planning Department for
specific submittal requirements).
      (3)   The Planning Director shall make a determination as to which
approval process authorized by this section can be used. The Planning Director
may require the applicant to submit whatever supplemental information is
necessary to make this determination.
      (4)   When a subdivision is to be developed in stages, a master plan
shall be submitted for the entire development and a preliminary plat shall be
submitted for each individual stage. A final plat is submitted for individual
stages as each stage is developed. Each new stage shall be developed adjacent
to an earlier stage.
   (H)   Minor plat review.
      (1)   Applicability.
         (a)   The procedure for approval of a minor subdivision plat is
intended to simplify processing of routine small subdivisions with due regard
to protection of the public interest. The difference between the minor and
major subdivision processes is that minor subdivisions do not require
preliminary plat review.
         (b)   There shall be only 1 minor subdivision approved on any original
tax parcel in any 3-year period. This division shall not apply to minor
subdivisions for which the following conditions are met:
            1.   The owner and grantee certify that the grantee of each lot is
the child or child and spouse, or grandchild and spouse of the owner;
            2.   The owner and grantee certify that no consideration shall be
paid for any of the lots; and
            3.   The owner and grantee certify that the purpose of the minor
subdivision is not to circumvent the provisions of this chapter, and that none
of the lots shall be conveyed to third parties for a period of not less than 3
years, and that the record plat shall indicate same.
            4.   Failure of any person to comply with the provisions of
divisions 1., 2., and 3. above shall be in violation of this chapter, and all
of the remedies available in G.S. § 160A-375 shall apply.
      (2)   Application requirements. All applications for minor plat review
shall be submitted in accordance with §
156.702.
      (3)   Action by Planning Director.
         (a)   Upon submission of a completed application, the Planning
Director shall schedule the minor subdivision plat for review by the Technical
Review Committee. The Technical Review Committee shall review the plat for
consistency with the requirements of this chapter. The Planning Director shall,
after review by the Technical Review Committee, determine whether the plat
conforms to the standards of a minor subdivision.
         (b)   If the minor subdivision plat is determined not to be in
conformance with the requirements for a minor subdivision, the applicant may
proceed with preliminary plat approval.
      (4)   Action following approval. Upon minor preliminary plat approval,
the applicant may begin preliminary site work. All site work shall be performed
in compliance with the requirements of this chapter, and other applicable
regulations of the town, Johnston County, and the state. The final plat may be
recorded in the Johnston County Record of Deeds.
      (5)   Continuing validity of minor plats. Within 24 months of the date of
approval of the minor subdivision plat, the applicant shall submit application
for final plat review otherwise the minor subdivision plat shall be null and
void.
      (6)   Minor plat approval criteria. Minor subdivision plats shall be
approved only when the Planning Director, after Technical Review Committee
review, finds that all of the following conditions exist:
         (a)   Consistency with the adopted plans and polices of the town;
         (b)   The plat complies with the standards of §§
156.400 through
156.405, and any other applicable requirements of this chapter;
         (c)   The plat indicates that all subject lots will have frontage on
existing approved streets;
         (d)   New or residual parcels conform to the requirements of this
chapter and other applicable regulations;
         (e)   No new streets are required or are likely to be required for
access to interior property;
         (f)   No drainage or utility easements will be required to serve
interior property;
         (g)   No extension of public sewerage or water lines will be required;
         (h)   The proposed subdivision will not adversely affect permissible
development of the remainder of the parcel or of adjoining property; and
         (i)   No waivers from §§
156.400 through
1556.405, have been requested.
   (I)   Preliminary plat approval (major subdivisions only).
      (1)   Applicability. A preliminary plat shall be required for all
subdivisions that do not meet the definition of a minor subdivision as set
forth in division (F) above.
      (2)   Application requirements.
         (a)   All applications for preliminary plat review shall be submitted
in accordance with §
156.702.
         (b)   A traffic impact analysis may be required if the proposed
subdivision meets the thresholds established in §
156.708.
         (c)   An application for a waiver from any of the provisions of §§
156.400 through
156.405, shall be submitted in writing by the applicant at the time the
preliminary plat is filed. The application shall state the grounds for the
waiver and all the facts relied upon by the applicant.
      (3)   Notice and public hearings. The town shall hold all required public
hearings and give  notice in accordance with §
156.702.
      (4)   Neighborhood meeting. All applicants seeking major subdivision
approval (open space subdivision only) shall hold a neighborhood meeting in
accordance with §
156.702.
      (5)   Action by Planning Director.
         (a)   Upon submission of a completed application, the Planning
Director shall schedule the preliminary plat for review by the Technical Review
Committee. The Technical Review Committee shall review the preliminary plat for
consistency with the requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   The following agencies shall be given an opportunity to review
the proposed plat as needed:
            1.   County Superintendent of Schools;
            2.   County Health Department;
            3.   State Department of Transportation District Engineer;
            4.   State Department of Natural Resources and Community
Development; and
            5.   Other agencies and officials as the Planning Director or
Planning Board may deem necessary or desirable.
         (c)   The Planning Director shall prepare a report that reviews the
application in light of comments provided by the Technical Review Committee,
and in light of the adopted plans and polices of the town, and the general
requirements of this chapter. The report, preliminary plat and any related
application materials shall be forwarded to the Planning Board.
      (6)   Action by Planning Board. The Planning Board shall review and make
a recommendation to the Town Board of Commissioners on the preliminary plat
within 60 days of the required submittal date.
      (7)   Waivers.
         (a)   Where the Town Board of Commissioners finds that extraordinary
hardships or practical difficulties may result from strict compliance with §§
156.400 through
156.405, and the intent of this chapter may be served to a greater extent by an
alternative proposal, a waiver may be granted. A waiver shall not have the
effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of this chapter, and the Planning
Board shall not grant a waiver unless the  Planning Board makes findings based
upon the evidence presented in each case that:
            1.   The granting of the waiver will not be detrimental to the
public safety, health, or welfare or injurious to other property or
improvements in the neighborhood in which the property is located;
            2.   The conditions upon which the request for a waiver are based
are unique to the property for which the waiver is sought and are not generally
applicable to other property;
            3.   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape, or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of this chapter is enforced; and
            4.   The purpose of the wavier is not based primarily upon
financial consideration.
         (b)   In granting a waiver, the Town Board of Commissioners may
require such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the
objectives of the standards or requirements of this chapter.
      (8)   Action by Town Board of Commissioners.
         (a)   The preliminary plat shall be referred to the Town Board of
Commissioners for final action after action is taken by the Planning Board. The
preliminary plat shall be considered by the Town Board of Commissioners in
accordance with its rules of procedure and the General Statutes of North
Carolina.
         (b)   An evidentiary hearing shall be held after due notice has been
given to the applicant and  the general public. Sworn parties shall be given
the opportunity to present evidence, cross-examine other parties, inspect any
documentation, and offer evidence or testimony in rebuttal.
         (c)   Findings of fact shall be made by the Town Board of
Commissioners that are based on sworn evidence or testimony presented at the
meeting. Such evidence or testimony must be relevant, material, and competent.
         (d)   No final action shall be deemed to have been given by the Town
Board of Commissioners on the preliminary plat until the Town Board of
Commissioner's written decision on the preliminary plat is delivered to the
applicant by the town.
         (e)   The Town Board of Commissioners may approve the preliminary
plat, deny the preliminary plat, or send the preliminary plat back to the
Planning Board for additional consideration.
         (f)   If the Town Board of Commissioners should disapprove the
preliminary plat, the reasons for such action shall be given to the applicant.
      (9)   Action following approval.
         (a)   Upon preliminary plat approval, the applicant may initiate
proceedings to begin site work and installation of improvements. All work shall
be performed in compliance with the requirements of §§
156.400 through
156.405, and other applicable regulations of the Town, Johnston County, and the
state.
         (b)   Approval of a preliminary plat does not constitute approval of
the final plat. Application  for approval of the final (record) plat will be
considered only after the requirements for final plat approval as specified in
division (J) below have been fulfilled and after all other specified conditions
have been met.
      (10)   Findings of fact required. No preliminary plat may be approved by
the Town Board of Commissioners unless all of the following findings are made
concerning the subdivision:
         (a)   Consistency with the adopted plans and of polices of the town;
         (b)   The subdivision meets all required specifications of this
chapter;
         (c)   The subdivision will not be detrimental to the use or orderly
development of other properties in the surrounding area and will not violate
the character of existing standards for development of properties in the
surrounding area; and
         (d)   The subdivision design will provide for the distribution of
traffic in a manner that will avoid or mitigate congestion within the immediate
area, will provide for the unified and orderly use of or extension of public
infrastructure, and will not materially endanger the environment, public
health, safety, or the general welfare.
      (11)   Modification of construction standards. Notwithstanding the
approval of a preliminary plat, the town shall have the authority to apply any
revised construction standards to future plats at the time of application for
final plat approval. The Public Works Director shall determine the maximum
extent to which such new standards may feasibly apply.
      (12)   Continuing validity of preliminary plats.
         (a)   Within 24 months of the date of approval of the preliminary
plat, the applicant shall submit a final plat for at least 1 section of the
subdivision, otherwise the preliminary plat shall be null and void.
         (b)   All sections of an approved preliminary plat must be submitted
for final plat approval within 3 years of preliminary plat approval for a
preliminary plat containing up to 100 lots, and within 5 years for a
preliminary plat containing 100 lots or more. Otherwise, the preliminary plat
shall be null and void.
   (J)   Final plat review (major and minor subdivisions).
      (1)   Applicability. A final plat shall be required for all subdivision
of land in the Town of Kenly and its extraterritorial jurisdiction.
      (2)   Application requirements. All applications for final plat review
shall be submitted in accordance with §
156.702.
      (3)   Action by Planning Director.
         (a)   Upon submission of a completed application, the Planning
Director shall within 60 days schedule the final plat for review by the
Technical Review Committee. The Technical Review Committee shall review the
final plat for consistency with the approved minor subdivision plat or approved
preliminary plat, as applicable, and the general requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   Upon completion of the technical review, the Planning Director
may approve the final plat, deny the final plat, or send the plat back for
additional consideration.
         (c)   If the final plat is disapproved by the Planning Director, the
reasons for such disapproval shall be stated in writing, specifying the
provisions of this chapter with which the final plat does not comply.
      (4)   Final plat approval criteria. Final plats shall be approved when
the following conditions exist:
         (a)   Consistency with the adopted plans and of policies of the town.
         (b)   The plat substantially complies with the approved minor plat or
preliminary plat, as applicable.
         (c)   The plat complies with the standards of §§
156.400 through
156.405, and the other applicable requirements of this chapter;
         (d)   New and residual parcels will conform to the requirements of
this chapter and other applicable regulations;
         (e)   All necessary right-of-way has been offered for reservation or
dedication; and
         (f)   All necessary drainage easements have been provided.
      (5)   Endorsements on final plats.
         (a)   Minor plats. All minor subdivision final plats shall contain the
following certificates:
            1.   Certificate of Ownership;
            2.   Certificate of Survey and Accuracy;
            3.   Certificate of Approval by the Planning Director; and
            4.   Johnston County Plat Review Officer's Certificate.
         (b)   Major plats.
            1.   All major subdivision final plats shall contain the following
certificates:
               a.   Certificate of Ownership and Dedication;
               b.   Certificate of Survey and Accuracy;
               c.   Certificate of Approval of Water Supply and Sewage and
Disposal Systems (County);
               d.   Certificate of Approval of the Design and Installation of
Streets, Utilities, and other Required Improvements;
               e.   Certificate of Approval by the Town Manager, as applicable;
and
               f.   Johnston County Plat Review Officer's Certificate.
            2.   All final plats located outside the corporate limits of the
town, but within the planning jurisdiction, shall contain the following
certificates:
               a.   NCDOT Engineer Certificate; and
               b.   Certificate of Approval of Non-Municipal Water Supply and
Sewage Disposal Systems.
            3.   When required by the federal government, all final plats shall
contain a certificate for a federally funded project.
      (6)   Action after approval.
         (a)   The applicant shall file the approved final plat with the County
Register of Deeds for recording within 60 days after the date of approval. The
Planning Director, upon receipt of a written request, may extend this date an
additional 30 days, if the request is received prior to the original expiration
date and the final plat meets all applicable provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   The approval of a final plat shall not be deemed to constitute
or affect the acceptance or affect the acceptance by the town of the dedication
of any street or other ground, public utility line, or other public facility
shown on the plat. However, the town may, by resolution, accept any dedication
made to the public of lands or facilities for streets, parks, public utility
lines, or other public purposes, when the lands or facilities are located
within its subdivision regulation jurisdiction. Acceptance or dedication of
lands or facilities located within the subdivision regulation jurisdiction but
outside the corporate limits of the town shall not place on the town any duty
to open, operate, repair, or maintain any street, utility line, or other land
or facility, and the town shall in no event be held to answer in  any civil
action or proceeding for failure to open, repair, or maintain any street
located outside its corporate limits.
   (K)   Dedication and improvements.
      (1)   In the development of any subdivision, the applicant shall be
required to dedicate any additional right-of-way necessary to the width
required by the town for streets adjoining the property, to install curbs and
gutters and pave all streets adjoining the property to town standards, and to
install sidewalks in accordance with the policies and requirements of §§
156.400 through
156.405.
      (2)   The applicant shall bear the costs of the installation of all on-
site improvements as required by this chapter, including provision for surface
drainage, pavement, landscaping, and utilities. Any applicant required to
install or construct off-site improvements pursuant to this section may, with
the approval as a condition of subdivision approval, and upon a determination
by the Planning Director that such improvements are not necessary or desirable
at the time, but will be needed in the future, make a payment in lieu of such
improvements or part thereof. The amount of any such payment shall be an amount
estimated by the town to be the actual and total installation and construction
costs of such improvements. The amount paid for a given improvement shall be
considered total and complete payment for the improvements considered, and will
preclude any further assessment of the property in the event that the town
elects to install such improvements at a later date.
      (3)   For all residential developments approved after July 3, 1995,
recreation and open space dedication, or payment of fee-in-lieu thereof in
accordance with §
156.203 shall be required.
   (L)   Guarantees of improvements. Guarantee of improvements shall be made in
accordance with §
156.607.
   (M)   Inspections of required improvements. Inspections of improvements
shall be made in accordance with §
156.607.
   (N)   Approved plat modifications.
      (1)   Minor modifications.
         (a)   Preliminary plat. Minor revisions to an approved preliminary
plat may be approved by the Planning Director if the revisions are within the
scope and intent of the original approval. Such revisions may include but not
be limited to:
            1.   Reducing the lot count;
            2.   Modifying phase lines; and
            3.   Minor adjustments to lot or street locations.
         (b)   Final plat. A final plat may be rerecorded to:
            1.   Revise or correct dimensions;
            2.   Change street names;
            3.   Add, delete or modify easements or private covenants;
            4.   Change subdivision name; or
            5.   Other minor modifications that are within the scope and intent
of the original approval subject to approval of the Planning Director.
         (c)   Procedures.
            1.   Preliminary plat.
               a.   When minor revisions are proposed to an approved
preliminary plat, the  applicant shall submit a written request to the Planning
Director with a copy sent to the Technical Review Committee delineating the
revisions and requesting authorization for administrative revision.
               b.   The Planning Director shall notify the applicant whether
the proposed revision qualifies for minor modification and the basis for the
determination. If approved, the final plat may be submitted in accordance with
the revisions.
               c.   The Planning Director shall distribute copies of the
revised plat to the appropriate agencies.
            2.   Final plat.
               a.   When minor revisions are proposed to an approved final
plat, the applicant shall submit a written request to the Planning Director
with a copy sent to the Technical Review Committee delineating the revisions
and requesting authorization for administrative revision.
               b.   If the plat has been recorded, the applicant shall submit
the recorded plat with a statement describing the revisions made and title
block for the Planning Director signature, and date of signing.
               c.   If the ownership of the subdivision has changed or if any
lots have been sold  since the previous recording, an owner's and notary's
certificates shall be  provided on the plat for each current owner.
               d.   In addition to the letter and the revised final plat, the
applicant shall submit the required fees to the Planning Director for
processing and rerecording the revised plat.
               e.   The Planning Director shall distribute copies of the
recorded final plat to the appropriate agencies.
      (2)   Major modifications. Proposed modifications to an approved
preliminary plat or final plat not considered minor revisions shall be
submitted and processed as new applications in accordance with the provisions
of this section.
   (O)   Resubdivision and recombination procedures. For any replatting or
resubdivision of land, the same procedures, rules, and regulations shall apply
as prescribed for an original subdivision. Lot size and configuration may,
however, be varied on an approved plat after recording, provided that:
      (1)   No lot or parcel of land shall be created or sold that does not
conform to the minimum standards of the applicable zoning district;
      (2)   Easements or rights-of-way shall not be changed;
      (3)   Street alignment and block sizes shall not be changed;
      (4)   The character of the area shall be maintained;
      (5)   A recombination of existing parcels may be approved by the Planning
Director, subject to the following:
         (a)   The resultant lots are equal to the standards of this chapter or
more closely conform to the minimum lot size standards in this chapter;
         (b)   The total number of lots is not increased;
         (c)   All the metes and bounds boundaries of the affected lots are
shown;
         (d)   All lot boundaries changed or eliminated by requested
combination are indicated by dashed lines;
         (e)   The title block contains the word "recombination";
         (f)   Structures on the affected lots are shown and the requested
recombination does not violate setback requirements of the §§
156.200 through
156.204 of this chapter;
         (g)   The recombination plat is signed by all property owners if
either the number of lots is reduced or different owners for different lots are
involved in the recombination;
         (h)   The recombination plat is signed and sealed by a registered
surveyor;
         (i)   The recombination plat is certified by the Planning Director;
and
         (j)   The recombination plat conforms to all laws and ordinances for
the recordation of maps.
   (P)   Appeal. Final action on a final plat may be appealed to the Board of
Adjustment in accordance with §
156.717.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.707  SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   All proposed development, except for single-family detached, zero
lot line, and alley-loaded dwelling units on individual lots, shall be subject
to the site plan review process.
      (2)   Temporary uses may require site plan review (see §
156.712).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-81.png]
   (B)   Site plan types. There are 2 types of site plans with differing levels
of approval required for each. The criteria for establishing which type of site
plan and the corresponding level of approval for each are indicated below.
      (1)   Minor site plans.
         (a)   Applicability.
            1.   The following shall be reviewed as a minor site plan:
               a.   Parking lot expansions where there is no increase in excess
of 5% of floor area of the principal structure;
               b.   Accessory uses in commercial districts involving structures
less than 500 square feet; and
               c.   Amenity facilities, park and open area uses in approved
subdivisions.
            2.   Projects listed below shall also be reviewed as a minor site
plan provided they do not require a traffic impact analysis in accordance with
§
156.708; do not require modification of the standards established in this
chapter other than those which the Planning Director may modify
administratively; and do not involve the issuance of a conditional use permit
or a special use permit.
               a.   Developments of up to 2,500 square feet of building for
nonresidential uses; and
               b.   Expansion of an existing conforming structure or expansion
of a previously approved site plan by 5% in floor area or number of units.
         (b)   Approval authority. The Planning Director shall be responsible
for approving a minor site plan.
      (2)   Major site plans.
         (a)   Applicability. Any development requiring site plan review not
listed in division (B)(1) above as a minor site plan shall be considered a
major site plan.
         (b)   Approval authority. The Planning Board shall be responsible for
approving all major site plans, including site plans associated with an
approved planned development master plan (see division (E) below), conditional
use permits (see §
156.710 ); and special use permits (see §
156.711).
   (C)   Pre-application conference.
      (1)   All applicants seeking site plan approval shall schedule a pre-
application conference with the Planning Director, in accordance with §
156.702.
      (2)   The Planning Director shall make a determination as to which
approval process authorized by this section can be used. The Planning Director
may require the applicant to submit whatever supplemental information is
necessary to make this determination.
   (D)   Minor site plan review.
      (1)   Application requirements. An application for minor site plan
approval shall be submitted in accordance with §
156.702.
      (2)   Action by Planning Director.
         (a)   Upon submission of a completed application, the Planning
Director shall schedule the minor site plan for review by the Technical Review
Committee. The Technical Review Committee shall review the minor site plan for
consistency with the requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   After technical review, the Planning Director shall determine
whether the minor site plan conforms to the requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   Modifications to approved minor site plans. The Planning Director
shall have authority to grant modifications to approved minor site plans in
accordance with the provisions of this section or refer the modification to the
Technical Review Committee if deemed necessary.
   (E)   Major site plan review.
      (1)   Application requirements. An application for major site plan
approval shall be submitted in accordance with §
156.702.
      (2)   Neighborhood meeting. All applicants seeking major site plan
approval shall hold a neighborhood meeting in  accordance with §
156.702.
      (3)   Action by Planning Director.
         (a)   Upon submission of a completed application, the Planning
Director shall schedule the  major site plan for review by the Technical Review
Committee. The Technical Review Committee shall review the major site plan for
consistency with the requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   Upon completion of the technical review, the Planning Director
shall prepare a report that reviews the application in light of comments
provided by the Technical Review Committee, and in light of the adopted plans
and policies of the town and the general requirements of this chapter. The
report, site plan and any related application materials shall be forwarded to
the Planning Board.
      (4)   Action by Planning Board.
         (a)   After considering the Planning Director's comments, the Planning
Board shall approve or disapprove the major site plan, or send the site plan
back to the Technical Review Committee for additional consideration.
         (b)   Major site plans requiring revisions shall be returned to the
Planning Board within 90 days or the application shall be considered withdrawn.
One extension period may be granted by the Planning Board.
      (5)   Modifications to approved major site plans.
         (a)   Minor deviations. If a proposed amendment to a major site plan
represents only a minor deviation from the approved site plan, the applicant
shall file a written application for such amendment with the Planning Director
who shall act upon such application within 10 days of its receipt. Minor
deviations shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
            1.   A less than 5% increase, or any decrease, in the floor area or
number of units, provided that the district maximums of the subject property
for which a minor site plan has been submitted, is not exceeded.
            2.   A less than 10% decrease in parking spaces, open space or
livability space;
            3.   The minor relocation of any structure, dedicated street,
easement or landscape screen in any direction from the location shown on the
site plan unless deemed by the Planning Director to significantly alter the
approved plan.
      (6)   Substantial deviations. If a proposed amendment to a site plan
deviates substantially from the approved site plan, the approved site plan
shall be amended in accordance with the procedure and standards which governed
its approval. Such substantial deviations include the following:
         (a)   A 5% or greater increase in floor area or number of units;
         (b)   A 10% or greater decrease in parking spaces, open space or
livability space;
         (c)   The relocation of any structure, dedicated street, easement or
landscape screen in any direction from the location shown on the major site
plan for the distances specified below based on the size of the development:
            1.   25 feet or more for major site plans of 2 acres or less;
            2.   50 feet or more for major site plans of more than 2 acres but
less than 8 acres;
            3.   100 feet or more for major site plans of 8 acres but less than
20 acres; and
            4.   150 feet for major site plans of 20 acres or more.
   (F)   Approval criteria. In approving a site plan, the Planning Director and
Planning Board shall consider the following:
      (1)   Consistency with the adopted plans and polices of the town;
      (2)   Compliance with all applicable requirements of this chapter;
      (3)   Site design and development intensity is appropriate for and
tailored to the unique natural characteristics of the site, such as significant
wooded areas, specimen trees, wetlands, steep slopes, and floodplains;
      (4)   For nonresidential and multifamily projects, the site plan displays
the location of trash handling, recycling, grease bins, and other waste-related
facilities employed in the normal operation of the use;
      (5)   Adequacy and location of parking areas and pedestrian and vehicular
access points;
      (6)   Compliance with site construction specifications;
      (7)   Adequacy of stormwater facilities, water supply, sanitary sewer
service, fire protection, street signs, and street lighting as evidenced by
conformance with department standards, specifications and guidelines;
      (8)   That the application will not substantially injure the value of
adjoining or abutting property, and will not be detrimental to the use or
development of adjacent properties or other neighborhood uses;
      (9)   Compliance with requirements for easements or dedications;
      (10)   Compliance with any applicable subdivision improvements; and
      (11)   If applicable, compliance with the approved planned development
master plan.
      (12)   Building design and materials uphold and promote high quality
development in the town and are compatible with other uses in the surrounding
neighborhood.
   (G)   Period of validity. An approved site plan shall expire 2 years from
the date of approval unless the proposed development is pursued as set forth
below:
      (1)   A complete building permit application has been submitted and
remains valid;
      (2)   Where more than 1 building is to be built, the applicant may submit
a series of building  permit applications. The first application shall be
submitted within 2 years from the date that site plan approval is granted. Each
subsequent application shall be submitted within 180 days from the date of
issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the previous building; or
      (3)   If no building permit is required, a certificate of occupancy has
been issued.
   (H)   Building permit/certificate of occupancy.
      (1)   No building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued
until the required site plan of the proposed use or development has been
approved by the appropriate town officials.
      (2)   In order to secure a vested right for a site plan, the applicant
must submit a site-specific development plan in accordance with §
156.718.
   (I)   Dedication and improvements.
      (1)   In the development of any property for which a site plan is
required in this section, the applicant shall be required to dedicate any
additional right-of-way necessary to the width required by the town for streets
adjoining the property, to install curbs and gutters and pave  all  streets
adjoining the property to town standards, and to install sidewalks in
accordance with the policies and requirements of §§
156.400 through
156.405.
      (2)   The applicant shall bear the costs of the installation of all on-
site improvements as required by this chapter, including provision for surface
drainage, pavement, landscaping, and utilities. Any applicant required to
install or construct off-site improvements pursuant to this section may, with
the approval of the Planning Director as a condition of site plan approval, and
upon a determination by the Planning Director that such improvements are not
necessary or desirable at the time, but will be needed in the future, make a
payment in lieu of such improvements or part thereof. The amount of any such
payment shall be an amount estimated by the town to be the actual and total
installation and construction costs of such improvements. The amount paid for a
given improvement shall be considered total and complete payment for the
improvements considered, and will preclude any further assessment of the
property in the event that the town elects to install such improvements at a
later date. Full payment shall be made before any building permit or
certificate of occupancy is issued for any use shown on the site plan.
      (3)   For all residential and planned developments approved by the
effective date of this chapter, recreation and open space dedication, or
payment of fee-in-lieu thereof in accordance with §
156.203 shall be required.
   (J)   Guarantees of improvements.
      (1)   Prior to the approval of any site plan, the applicant shall submit
a cost estimate and time schedule for installation of each phase of the site
improvements.
      (2)   The town shall require a bond guaranteeing required on-site and
off-site improvements. This bond shall be in the amount determined by the Town
Manager. This bond shall be in cash, certified check, or be made by a bonding/
insurance company authorized to do business in North Carolina.
      (3)   As each phase of improvements is installed and inspected by the
town, the bond amount shall be reduced by the costs of the installed
improvements.
      (4)   In the event that the applicant wishes to occupy any building or
any portion of any building  prior to the completion of the required site
improvements, the bond guaranteeing improvements shall be retained by the town
until the remaining required improvements are completed.
   (K)   Inspections of required improvements. Inspections during site
improvements shall be made in accordance with §
156.607.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.708  TRAFFIC IMPACT ANALYSIS.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   A traffic impact analysis may be required to be submitted in
conjunction with an application for a planned development, preliminary plat,
major site plan, or special use permit.
      (2)   Unless exempted in division (B) below, a traffic impact analysis
shall be required for projects which can be anticipated to generate at least
100 vehicle trips at peak hour from the latest  edition of the Institute of
Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation Manual.
   (B)   Exemptions. The following projects shall not be required to submit a
traffic impact analysis:
      (1)   Developments approved prior to the effective date of this chapter
that have maintained valid planned development master plans, preliminary plats,
major site plans or special use permits.
      (2)   Redevelopment of any site on which the additional traffic at peak
hour represents an increase of less than 100 trips from the previous
development, where the redevelopment is initiated within 12 months of the
completion of demolition of the previous project.
      (3)   Minor site plans.
   (C)   Pre-application conference.
      (1)   All applicants required to submit a traffic impact analysis shall
schedule a pre-application conference with the Planning Director, in accordance
with §
156.702.
      (2)   The Planning Director and the town's consultant, if applicable,
shall determine the type and scope of the study during the pre-application
conference, which may also involve representatives from other agencies or
departments.
   (D)   Waiver authorized.
      (1)   The Planning Director may waive the requirement to submit a traffic
impact analysis. If the Director waives the requirement to submit a traffic
impact analysis, the Director shall include the reason for the waiver in the
Director's decision or recommendation on the application.
      (2)   An applicant who obtains a waiver under this section must mitigate
adverse effects of the traffic generated from a proposed development.
      (3)   The traffic generated from a proposed development for which the
requirement to submit a traffic impact was waived may not:
         (a)   In combination with existing traffic, exceed the desirable
operating level established in division (H) below; or
         (b)   Endanger the public safety.
   (E)   Application requirements. A traffic impact analysis prepared by a
professional engineer licensed in the State of North Carolina shall be
submitted in accordance with §
156.702. The traffic impact analysis must conform with the requirements of this
section and the Town's Engineering Design Manual. The traffic impact analysis
report must describe the study methodology, the data used, and the study
findings and provide recommendations based on the results.
   (F)   Definition of impact area. The Director shall determine the geographic
area to be included in a traffic impact analysis. Identification of the points
of access and key streets and intersections to be affected by development of
the subject parcel shall be required. Traffic recorder and turning movement
assessment locations may also have to be determined. The study area shall not
extend beyond the point where the project traffic at build-out is less than 10%
of the capacity of the roadway or intersection.
   (G)   Consultants. The Planning Director may require that an independent
consultant be hired by the town to perform the required studies, or to review
all or part of a study prepared by the applicant's consultant. The Planning
Director is authorized to administer the contract for any such consultant.
      (1)   The town shall determine the scope of services to be performed by
the independent consultant and receive a cost estimate of such services.
      (2)   The applicant shall provide an amount equal to the cost estimate to
the town, which shall deposit the amount in an escrow or other special account
set up for this purpose. Any funds not used shall be returned to the applicant
in a timely manner, without interest. If the estimated or actual cost increases
during the review from the town's initial cost estimate, the applicant
immediately shall provide an amount equal to the increased cost to the town,
which the town shall deposit in the escrow or special account. The final
approval of any application requiring a traffic impact analysis by the town
shall be contingent upon the full payment of all consultant costs incurred for
the analysis.
      (3)   The town may require additional funds for independent review where
a decision-making body expands the scope of the required review; the applicant
substantially amends the application; additional meetings involving the
consultant are requested by the applicant; or the consultant's appearance is
requested at public or affected agency meetings beyond those anticipated in the
original scope of services.
   (H)   Desirable operating levels for certain streets. Traffic on a
residential local or collector street is operating at a desirable level if it
does not exceed the following levels:
 
Pavement Width               Vehicles Per Day
Less than 30 feet            1,200
30 feet to less than 40 feet 1,800
40 feet or wider             4,000
 
   (I)   Action on application.
      (1)   The Planning Director may deny an application if the results of a
traffic impact analysis demonstrate that a proposed development may overburden
the town's street system.
      (2)   The Planning Director shall deny an application if the traffic
impact analysis demonstrates that:
         (a)   The projected traffic generated by the project, combined with
existing traffic, exceeds the desirable operating level established in division
(H) above in the traffic impact analysis study area; or
         (b)   The project endangers the public safety.
   (J)   Application modification based on traffic analysis. An applicant may
modify an application to minimize the traffic-related effects identified in a
traffic impact analysis.  Modifications may include:
      (1)   A reduction in the projected vehicle trips per day;
      (2)   The dedication of additional right-of-way;
      (3)   The rerouting of traffic and a proposed access and egress point;
      (4)   Participation in the funding of a traffic signal or intersection
improvement; and
      (5)   Other modification determined to be necessary.
   (K)   Appeal of Planning Director's action.
      (1)   An applicant may appeal the Planning Director's denial to the Town
Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   The Town Board of Commissioners may approve the traffic impact
analysis if the Board of Commissioners determines that the:
         (a)   Applicant has satisfactorily mitigated adverse traffic effects;
or
         (b)   Additional traffic from the project has an insignificant effect
on the town's streets.
   (L)   Period of validity. A traffic impact analysis shall be valid for a
specific site for no more than 10 years, so long as no significant
modifications to the development approved for the site are made.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.709  ZONING PERMIT.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to begin moving, constructing, altering, or
repairing, except ordinary  repairs, of any building or other structure on a
site including an accessory structure, until the Planning Department has issued
a zoning permit for such work.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to change the type of use of land, or to
change the type of use or type of occupancy of any building, or to extend any
use or any lot on which there is a nonconforming use, until the Planning
Department has issued a zoning permit for such intended use, including a
determination that the proposed use, in all respects, conforms to the
provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to undertake any land-disturbing activity
until the Planning Department has issued a zoning permit for such work.
      (4)   No zoning permit is required for permitted temporary uses (see §
156.712).
   (B)   Timing of application. In all cases where a building permit is
required, application for a zoning permit shall be made concurrently with the
application for a building permit. In all other cases, application shall be
made before initiating any of the activities that trigger compliance with this
section.
   (C)   Application requirements. All applications for a zoning permit shall
be submitted in accordance with §
156.702.
   (D)   Action by Planning Director.
      (1)   If the proposed application is in conformity with the provisions of
this chapter, the Planning Department shall issue a zoning permit, provided
that all of the following conditions shall apply:
         (a)   Issuance of a zoning permit shall in no case be construed as
waiving any provisions of this chapter;
         (b)   The Planning Director shall not grant any exceptions to the
actual meaning of any clause, standards, or regulation contained in this
chapter to any person making application to excavate, construct, move, alter or
use buildings, structures or land;
         (c)   The Planning Director shall issue a permit when the imposed
conditions of this chapter are complied with by the applicant regardless of
whether the use of the permit would violate contractual or other arrangements
(including, but not by way of limitation, restrictive covenants) among private
parties; and
         (d)   The zoning permit shall include a determination that plans,
specifications and the intended use of such structure and land do, in all
respects, conform to the provisions of this chapter. Prior to the issuance of a
zoning permit, the Planning Director shall consult with other applicable
departments, as necessary.
      (2)   If the proposed application is not in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter, the Planning Director shall not issue the zoning
permit and shall provide in writing the cause of such disapproval to the
applicant.
   (E)   Expiration. Once a zoning permit has been issued, all activities
pursuant to such permit shall be commenced within 6 months. If the proposed
moving, constructing, altering, repairing, or use of land, as set forth in an
application for a zoning permit is discontinued for a period of 1 year or more,
the zoning permit shall lapse and be of no further force and effect.
   (F)   Appeal. Final action on a zoning permit may be appealed to the Board
of Adjustment in accordance with §
156.717.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.710  CONDITIONAL USE REVIEW.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   Conditional uses within a zoning district are considered to be uses
that may be appropriate in a particular zoning district, but because of their
potential for incompatibility with adjacent uses require individual review by
the Board of Adjustment.
      (2)   (a)   A conditional use permit shall be required for all
conditional uses as set forth in the Permitted Land Use Table (see §
156.202). A development comprised of uses regulated by separate rows on the
table shall be reviewed using the most restrictive process from among the
proposed uses.
         (b)   If a proposed development includes a child care center, library
and a restaurant, including outparcels, and one of those uses is only permitted
as a conditional use in the district, then the entire development requires
conditional use review.
      (3)   (a)   Where a use requiring approval as conditional use lies on a
separate legal parcel, only the building containing the use and its separate
parcel shall be subject to conditional use review, not the entire project.
However, where the separate legal parcel is an outparcel, the application shall
describe the relationship of the outparcel to the remaining site.
         (b)   For example, where a use in the B-3 district (requiring a
conditional use permit) is an outparcel within a larger retail development, the
conditional use review shall apply to the outparcel only - not the entire
development. However, where a conditional use is proposed in a building that
contains a variety of other uses, the entire building and its associated parcel
of land shall require conditional use review.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-83.png]
 
   (B)   Pre-application conference. All applicants seeking conditional use
approval shall schedule a pre-application conference with the Planning
Director, in accordance with §
156.702.
   (C)   Application requirements.
      (1)   Concurrent with a request for a conditional use permit, an
applicant shall submit a site plan for review and approval.
      (2)   An application for a conditional use permit shall be submitted in
accordance with §
156.702.
      (3)   A traffic impact analysis may be required if the proposed
development meets the thresholds established in §
156.708.
   (D)   Notice and public hearings. The town shall hold all required public
hearings and give notice in accordance with §
156.702.
   (E)   Action by Planning Director.
      (1)   Upon submission of a completed application, the Planning Director
shall schedule the site plan for review by the Technical Review Committee. The
Technical Review Committee shall review the site plan for consistency with the
requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Upon completion of the technical review for a site plan, the
Planning Director shall prepare a report that reviews the application in light
of comments provided by the Technical Review Committee, in light of the adopted
plans and policies of the town, and the general requirements of this chapter.
The report, site plan and any related application materials shall be forwarded
to the Board of Adjustment.
      (3)   Where a major site plan is required, approval of the conditional
use permit by the Board of Adjustment shall be considered site plan approval.
   (F)   Action by Board of Adjustment.
      (1)   After considering the Technical Review Committee's comments, the
Board of Adjustment shall approve or disapprove the request, or send the
request back to the Technical Review Committee for additional consideration.
      (2)   Site plans requiring revisions shall be returned to the Technical
Review Committee's within 90 days or the application shall be considered
withdrawn. One extension period may be granted by Board of Adjustment.
   (G)   Findings of fact required. No conditional use permit shall be approved
by the Board of Adjustment, unless the following findings are made concerning
the application:
      (1)   That the application will not materially endanger the public health
or safety if located where proposed and developed according to the plans as
submitted and approved.
      (2)   That the application meets all required specifications and conforms
to the standards and practices of sound land use planning and the Town Code of
Ordinances, or other applicable regulations.
      (3)   That the application will not substantially injure the value of
adjoining or abutting property, and will not be detrimental to the use or
development of adjacent properties or other neighborhood uses.
      (4)   That the application will not adversely affect the adopted plans
and polices of the town, or violate the character of existing standards for
development of the adjacent properties.
   (H)   Additional conditions.
      (1)   In granting approval of a conditional use permit, the Board of
Adjustment may impose reasonable conditions which serve to assure that the
required findings are upheld. Such conditions may include, but are not limited
to, right-of-way or easement dedication; recreation, open space, or buffer
provision; limitation in scale, intensity, or hours of operation; and other
reasonable restrictions.
      (2)   Any additional condition approved by the Board of Adjustment shall
become a part of the permit and be of equal importance in the responsibility of
the applicant or subsequent assigns to adhere to its terms.
   (I)   Modifications to approved conditional use permits.
      (1)   Minor deviations. The Planning Director is authorized to approve
minor deviations to a conditional use permit, if such change is not contrary to
the approving action of the Board of Adjustment, but shall not have the
authority to approve substantial deviations as set forth below.
      (2)   Substantial deviations.
         (a)   Any deviation requiring evidentiary support in addition to that
presented at a public  hearing on applications for the original permit shall
constitute a substantial deviation. Before making a determination as to whether
a proposed action is a minor deviation or a substantial deviation, the Planning
Director shall review the record of the proceedings on the original
application. Substantial deviations shall include the following:
            1.   A change in the boundaries of the approved site;
            2.   A change from the approved use;
            3.   An increase of 5% or more in the approved floor area, unless
proposed addition is 500 square feet of floor area or less, whether such
addition is proposed at one time or over an extended period of time;
            4.   An increase of 5% or more in the number of approved parking
spaces, unless the proposed addition is 10 or fewer spaces, whether such
addition is proposed at one time or over an extended period of time;
            5.   Substantial change in the location of principal or accessory
structures;
            6.   Structural alterations significantly affecting the basic size,
form, style, ornamentation, and appearance of principal or accessory structures
as shown on the approved site plan;
            7.   Substantial changes in pedestrian or vehicular access or
circulation; and
            8.   Substantial change in the amount or location of landscape
screens.
         (b)   If a proposed amendment deviates substantially from the approved
conditional use permit, the approved conditional use permit shall be amended in
accordance with the procedure and standards which governed its approval.
   (J)   Effect of decision.
      (1)   If the Board of Adjustment votes to deny an application, there may
be no subsequent application for the same or similar use submitted by any party
for any part of the subject property until 12 months have elapsed from the date
of denial. If the Board of Adjustment votes to approve an application, the
permit shall be recorded in the County Register of Deeds office.
      (2)   The conditional use permit and additional conditions, if
applicable, shall run with the land and shall be binding on the original
applicant as well as any successors, assigns, and heirs. Any decision by the
Board of Adjustment may be appealed within 30 days of the decision in
accordance with G.S. § 160A-381.
   (K)   Period of validity.
      (1)   An approved conditional use permit shall expire 12 months from the
date of approval unless the proposed development is pursued as set forth below:
         (a)   A complete building permit application has been submitted and
remains valid;
         (b)   Where more than 1 building is to be built, the applicant may
submit a series of building permit applications. The first application shall be
submitted within 12 months from the  date approval was granted. Each subsequent
application shall be submitted within 180 days from the date of issuance of a
certificate of occupancy for the previous building; or
         (c)   If no building permit is required, a certificate of occupancy
has been issued.
      (2)   Once the appropriate permit has been issued, the conditional use
permit shall remain in force unless the use, construction, or activity ceases
for a period of 12 consecutive months. In such instance the conditional use
permit shall become void. If a conditional use is determined by the Planning
Director to be void, such determination shall be transmitted in writing to the
applicant.
   (L)   Building permit/certificate of occupancy.
      (1)   No building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued
until the required site plan of the proposed use or development has been
approved by the Board of Adjustment.
      (2)   In order to secure a vested right for a site plan, the applicant
must submit a site-specific development plan in accordance with §
156.718.
   (M)   Revocation of a conditional use permit.
      (1)   If any conditions of a conditional use permit, or other
requirements of this chapter are violated, the Board of Adjustment may revoke
the permit. Revocation may occur after an evidentiary hearing is conducted by
the Board of Adjustment.
      (2)   Upon a 4/5 vote, the Board of Adjustment shall revoke the permit,
and notice of such revocation shall be recorded in the County Register of Deeds
office.
      (3)   Violations of conditions of a conditional use permit shall be
considered a violation of this chapter and thereby subject to the provisions of
§
156.720.
   (N)   Coordination with variances. Applications for variances may be
submitted concurrently with a request for a conditional use  permit. However,
decisions shall be rendered with separate motions. The conditional use permit
request shall be considered first (including any site plan), and where it is
denied, the variance request shall be null and void.
   (O)   Coordination with rezoning. An application for a conditional use
permit may be reviewed concurrently with a rezoning application. However, a
decision shall be rendered first for any rezoning and then subsequently for any
conditional use permit.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.711  SPECIAL USE REVIEW.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   Special uses within each general use district are uses that may be
appropriate in a particular district, but because of the increased potential
for incompatibility with adjacent uses requires individual review by the Town
Board of Commissioners.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-85.png]
 
      (2)   (a)   A special use permit shall be required for all special uses
as set forth in the Permitted Land Use Table (see §
156.202). A development comprised of uses regulated by separate rows on the
table shall be reviewed using the most restrictive process from among the
proposed uses.
         (b)   If a proposed development includes a gas station, library and a
restaurant, including outparcels, and one of those uses is only permitted as a
special use in the district, then the entire development requires special use
review.
      (3)   (a)   Where a use requiring approval as a special use lies on a
separate legal parcel, only the building containing the use and its separate
parcel shall be subject to special use review, not the entire project. However,
where the separate legal parcel is an outparcel, the application shall describe
the relationship of the outparcel to the remaining site.
         (b)   For example, where a use in the B-3 district (requiring a
special use permit) is an outparcel within a larger retail development, the
special use review shall apply to the outparcel only not the entire
development. However, where a special use is proposed in a building that
contains a variety of other uses, the entire building and its associated parcel
of land shall require special use review.
   (B)   Pre-application conference. All applicants seeking special use
approval shall schedule a pre- application conference with the Planning
Director, in accordance with §
156.702.
   (C)   Neighborhood meeting. All applicants seeking special use approval
shall hold a neighborhood meeting in accordance with §
156.702.
   (D)   Application requirements.
      (1)   Concurrent with a request for a special use permit, an applicant
shall submit a site plan for review and approval.
      (2)   An application for a special use permit shall be submitted in
accordance with §
156.702.
      (3)   A traffic impact analysis may be required if the proposed
development meets the thresholds established in §
156.708.
   (E)   Notice and public hearings. The town shall hold all required public
hearings and give notice in accordance with §
156.702.
   (F)   Action by Planning Director.
      (1)   Upon submission of a completed application, the Planning Director
shall schedule the site plan for review by the Technical Review Committee. The
Technical Review Committee shall review the site plan for consistency with the
requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Upon completion of the technical review, the Planning Director
shall prepare a report that reviews the application in light of comments
provided by the Technical Review Committee, in light of the adopted plans and
policies of the town, and the general requirements of this  chapter. The
report, site plan and any related application materials shall be forwarded to
the Planning Board.
   (G)   Action by Planning Board.
      (1)   After considering the Technical Review Committee's comments, the
Planning Board shall approve or disapprove the site plan, or send the site plan
back to the Technical Review Committee for additional consideration.
      (2)   Site plans requiring revisions shall be returned to the Planning
Board within 90 days or the application shall be considered withdrawn. One
extension period may be granted by the Planning Board.
   (H)   Action by Town Board of Commissioners.
      (1)   Before taking action on the special use request, the Town Board of
Commissioners shall consider the recommendations of the Planning Board.
      (2)   The Town Board of Commissioners may approve the request, deny the
request, or send the request back to the Planning Board for additional
consideration.
   (I)   Findings of fact required. No special use permit shall be approved
unless the following findings are made concerning the application:
      (1)   That the application will not materially endanger the public health
or safety if located where proposed, and developed according to the plans as
submitted and approved.
      (2)   That the application meets all required specifications and conforms
to the standards and practices of sound land use planning and the Town Code of
Ordinances or other applicable regulations.
      (3)   That the application will not substantially injure the value of
adjoining or abutting property, and will not be detrimental to the use or
development of adjacent properties or other neighborhood uses.
      (4)   That the application will not adversely affect the adopted plans
and policies of the town, or violate the character of existing standards for
development of the adjacent properties.
   (J)   Additional conditions.
      (1)   In granting approval of a special use permit, the Town Board of
Commissioners may impose reasonable conditions which serve to assure that the
required findings are upheld. Such conditions may include, but are not limited
to, right-of-way or easement dedication, recreation, open space, or buffer
provision, limitation in scale, intensity, or hours of operation, and other
reasonable restrictions.
      (2)   Any additional condition approved by the Town Board of
Commissioners shall become a part of the permit and be of equal importance in
the responsibility of the applicant or subsequent assigns to adhere to its
terms.
   (K)   Modifications to approved special use permits.
      (1)   Minor deviations. The Planning Director is authorized to approve
minor deviations to a special use permit, if such change is not contrary to the
approving action of the Town Board of Commissioners, but shall not have the
authority to approve substantial deviations as set forth below.
      (2)   Substantial deviations.
         (a)   Any deviation requiring evidentiary support in addition to that
presented at a public  hearing on applications for the original permit shall
constitute a substantial deviation. Before making a determination as to whether
a proposed action is a minor deviation or a substantial deviation, the Planning
Director shall review the record of the proceedings on the original
application. Substantial deviations shall include the following:
            1.   A change in the boundaries of the approved site;
            2.   A change from the approved use;
            3.   An increase of 5% or more in the approved floor area, unless
proposed addition is 500 square feet of floor area or less, whether such
addition is proposed at one time or over an extended period of time;
            4.   An increase of 5% or more in the number of approved parking
spaces, unless the proposed addition is 10 or fewer spaces, whether such
addition is proposed at one time or over an extended period of time;
            5.   Substantial change in the location of principal or accessory
structures;
            6.   Structural alterations significantly affecting the basic size,
form; style, ornamentation, and appearance of principal or accessory structures
as shown on the approved site plan;
            7.   Substantial changes in pedestrian or vehicular access or
circulation; and
            8.   Substantial change in the amount or location of landscape
screens.
         (b)   If a proposed amendment deviates substantially from the approved
special use permit, the approved special use permit shall be amended in
accordance with the procedure and standards which governed its approval.
   (L)   Effect of decision.
      (1)   If the Town Board of Commissioners votes to deny an application,
there may be no subsequent application for the same or similar use submitted by
any party for any part of the subject property until 12 months have elapsed
from the date of denial. If the Town Board of Commissioners votes to approve an
application, the permit shall be recorded in the County Register of Deeds
office.
      (2)   The special use permit and additional conditions, if applicable,
shall run with the land and shall be binding on the original applicant as well
as any successors, assigns, and heirs. Any decision by the Town Board of
Commissioners may be appealed within 30 days of the decision in accordance with
G.S. § 160A-381.
   (M)   Period of validity.
      (1)   An approved special use permit shall expire 12 months from the date
of approval unless the proposed development is pursued as set forth below:
         (a)   A complete building permit application has been submitted and
remains valid;
         (b)   Where more than 1 building is to be built, the applicant may
submit a series of building permit applications. The first application shall be
submitted within 12 months from the date approval was granted. Each subsequent
application shall be submitted within 180 days from the date of issuance of a
certificate of occupancy for the previous building; or
         (c)   If no building permit is required, a certificate of occupancy
has been issued.
      (2)   Once the appropriate permit has been issued, the special use permit
shall remain in force unless the use, construction, or activity ceases for a
period of 12 consecutive months. In such instance the special use permit shall
become void. If a special use is determined by the Planning Director to be
void, such determination shall be transmitted in writing to the applicant.
   (N)   Building permit/certificate of occupancy.
      (1)   No building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued
until the required site plan of the proposed use or development has been
approved by the Town Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   In order to secure a vested right for a site plan, the applicant
must submit a site-specific development plan in accordance with §
156.718.
   (O)   Revocation of a special use permit.
      (1)   If any conditions of a special use permit, or other requirements of
this chapter are violated, the town may revoke the permit.
      (2)   Revocation may occur after an evidentiary hearing is conducted by
the Town Board of Commissioners.
      (3)   Upon a 4/5 vote, the Town Board of Commissioners shall revoke the
permit, and notice of such revocation shall be recorded in the County Register
of Deeds office.
      (4)   Violations of conditions of a special use permit shall be
considered a violation of this chapter and thereby subject to the provisions of
§
156.720.
   (P)   Coordination with variances. Applications for variances may be
submitted concurrently with a request for a special use permit.  The special
use permit request shall be considered first (including any site plan), and
where it is denied, the variance request shall be null and void.
   (Q)   Coordination with rezoning. An application for a special use permit
may be reviewed concurrently with a rezoning application. However, a decision
shall be rendered first for any rezoning and then subsequently for any special
use permit.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.712  TEMPORARY USE PERMIT.
   Temporary outdoor uses should not be confused with permanent outdoor
activities (for example, a car sales lot) that are only allowed in certain
districts and require site plan approval, nor should they be confused with an
outdoor display area (for example, a garden center that is part of a building
supply store) that may be a part of a retail store and require site plan
approval.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   Temporary uses occurring on property outside of the public right-
of-way, including those operating for less than 30 days within a one-year time
period, shall obtain a temporary use permit from the Planning Department that
outlines conditions of operations to protect the  public, health, safety and
welfare subject to the standards of §
156.306.
      (2)   Temporary uses occurring within the public right-of-way require
approval by the Town Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Application requirements. An application for a temporary use permit
shall be submitted in accordance with §
156.702.
   (C)   Action by Planning Department.
      (1)   After receiving a complete application, the Planning Department
shall have up to 30 days to review the application.
      (2)   Following completion of the technical review period, the Planning
Department shall approve  the issuance of a temporary use permit subject to the
following:
         (a)   No lighting or electrical service shall be provided without an
electrical permit;
         (b)   No temporary use structure shall be erected without a building
permit;
         (c)   No temporary use structure shall block fire lanes or pedestrian
or vehicular access;
         (d)   The site of the temporary use shall be cleared of all debris at
the end of the temporary use. All temporary structures shall be cleared from
the site within 5 days after the use is terminated;
         (e)   Written permission of the property owner for the temporary use
shall be provided;
         (f)   Adequate parking shall be provided;
         (g)   Required parking for other uses shall remain available;
         (h)   Adequate traffic control measures shall be provided;
         (i)   Adequate provisions for trash disposal and sanitary facilities
shall be provided; and
         (j)   When appropriate, adequate provisions for crowd control shall be
provided.
   (D)   Revocation of a temporary use permit. A temporary use permit shall be
revoked if the Planning Director finds that the terms of the permit have been
violated or that there is a hazard to the public health, safety and welfare.
   (E)   Exceptions. Temporary uses conducted by bona fide nonprofit
organizations, as defined by and registered with the North Carolina Office of
the Secretary of State, shall be exempt from this section, except that a
temporary use permit must be obtained prior to any scheduled event.
   (F)   Appeal. Final action on a temporary use permit may be appealed to the
Board of Adjustment in accordance with §
156.717.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.713  SIGN PERMIT.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in §
156.403, no sign may be erected, located, or altered in any manner until a sign
permit, and building permit if necessary, has been secured from the  Planning
Department. The change of copy on a legally constructed sign shall not require
a permit unless it is included as part of an approved common signage plan (see
§
156.714).
      (2)   After January 19, 1999, all signs erected in conformance with these
regulations shall display a sticker which is issued by the Planning Department.
Any sign which does not display this sticker shall be considered a zoning
violation or nonconforming sign, and subject to the relative provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Application requirements. An application for sign permit shall be
submitted in accordance with §
156.702.
   (C)   Action by Planning Director. Following completion of the technical
review period, the Planning Director shall approve the sign permit for any sign
less than 8 feet tall, provided the sign meets all requirements of this
chapter, and all other applicable electrical and North Carolina Building Code
requirements.
   (D)   Action by Planning Board. Following completion of the technical review
period, the Planning Board shall approve the sign permit for any sign 8 feet in
height or taller, provided the sign meets all requirements of this chapter, and
all other applicable electrical and North Carolina Building Code requirements.
   (E)   Inspection of permanent signs.
      (1)   The applicant shall request an inspection by the appropriate
inspector after installation of the signs.
      (2)   If the signs are found to be in compliance, the applicant shall
receive a permanent seal which identifies the sign. The applicant shall attach
the identification in a conspicuous location which is accessible to the
Planning Director. It is recommended that businesses place the permit in a
lower corner of the front door of the business in those cases where the seal is
not affixed to the sign.
      (3)   The sign permit shall be null and void if sign installation is not
completed within 6 months or the signs are not in conformance with the approved
application.
      (4)   Valid sign permits may be assigned to a successor as holder of a
business license for the same premises.
   (F)   Temporary sign permit. A temporary sign permit shall be issued in
accordance with §
156.403. A common signage plan shall not be required for applications for
temporary sign permits.
   (G)   Revocation of a sign permit. The sign permit shall be revoked if a
sign is found to be in violation of the requirements of this chapter, or other
applicable electrical and North Carolina State Building Code requirements.
   (H)   Appeal. Final action on a sign permit may be appealed to the Board of
Adjustment in accordance with §
156.717.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.714  COMMON SIGNAGE PLAN.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   Except as listed below, the owners or developers of 2 or more
contiguous lots, or any multi-tenant use shall submit a common signage plan for
approval as part of the site plan application. Other applicants may voluntarily
submit a common signage plan in accordance with the standards of this section.
Such developments may increase the amount of signage otherwise permitted by a
maximum amount of 25% subsequent to approval of the common signage plan.
      (2)   Applications for temporary sign permits shall not be required to
submit an approved common signage plan.
   (B)   Application requirements.
      (1)   An application for a common signage plan shall be submitted in
accordance with §
156.702.
      (2)   The elements of a common signage plan shall be in accordance with §
156.403.
      (3)   Where an application for site plan review is also required, the
common signage plan shall be submitted concurrently with the site plan (see §
156.707).
   (C)   Action by Planning Director.
      (1)   Following completion of the technical review, the Planning Director
shall approve the common signage plan provided the plan meets all requirements
of this section.
      (2)   The Planning Director may allow modifications to the lettering
style to accommodate state and federally registered trademarks (logos) if the
Planning Director feels that the intent of the common signage plan requirements
is maintained. In allowing modifications, the Planning Director may limit the
logo size. The requirements of a common signage plan shall apply to all tenants
within a related project, even if the properties have been subdivided.
   (D)   Revisions and amendments.
      (1)   Revisions or amendments to the common signage plan shall require
documentation from all tenants on the property prior to approval.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant and/or property
owner to enforce the terms of the common signage plan, and a current copy of
such plan, including any amendments, must be kept on file in the Planning
Department.
   (E)   Existing signs not conforming to common signage plan. If any new or
amended common signage plan is filed for a property on which existing signs are
located, it shall include a schedule for bringing into conformance, within 3
years, all signs not conforming to the proposed amended plan or to the
requirements of this chapter in effect on the date of submission.
   (F)   Binding effect. After approval of a common signage plan, no sign shall
be erected, placed, painted, or maintained, except in conformance with such
plan, and such plan may be enforced in the same way as any provisions of this
chapter. In case of any conflict between the provisions of such a plan and any
other provision of this chapter, this chapter shall control.
   (G)   Appeal. Final action on a common signage plan may be appealed to the
Board of Adjustment in accordance with §
156.717.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.715  WRITTEN INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Applicability. When uncertainty exists, the Planning Director, after
consultation with other involved staff and Town Attorney, shall be authorized
to make all interpretations concerning the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Application requirements. An application for a written interpretation
shall be submitted in accordance with §
156.702.
   (C)   Action by Planning Director.
      (1)   The Planning Director shall review and evaluate the request in
light of the text of this chapter, the Zoning Map, the adopted plans and
policies of the town and any other relevant information.
      (2)   Following completion of the technical review period, the Planning
Director shall render an opinion.
      (3)   The interpretation shall be provided to the applicant in writing.
   (D)   Official record. The Planning Director shall maintain an official
record of all interpretations. The record of interpretations shall be available
for public inspection during normal business hours.
   (E)   Appeal. Final action on a written interpretation may be appealed to
the Board of Adjustment in accordance with §
156.717.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.716  VARIANCE.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment may vary certain requirements of this
chapter that will not be contrary to the public interest, where, owing to
special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this chapter,
will, in an individual case, result in practical difficulty or unnecessary
hardship. The Board of Adjustment shall ensure that the spirit of this chapter
shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice
done.
      (2)   The existence of a nonconforming use of neighboring land, building,
or structure in the same district, or of permitted or nonconforming uses in
other districts, shall not constitute a reason for the requested variance.
   (B)   Application requirements. An application for a variance shall be
submitted in accordance with §
156.702.
   (C)   Notice and public hearings. The town shall hold all required public
hearings and give notice in accordance with §
156.702.
   (D)   Burden of proof. The applicant seeking the variance shall have the
burden of presenting evidence sufficient to allow the Board of Adjustment to
reach the conclusions set forth below as well as the burden of persuasion on
those issues.
   (E)   Action by Planning Director. The Planning Director shall provide the
Board of Adjustment with a copy of the application and all relevant materials
pertaining to the request.
   (F)   Action by Board of Adjustment.
      (1)   Procedure.
         (a)   The Board of Adjustment may approve the request, deny the
request, or continue the request.
         (b)   Each decision shall be accompanied by a finding of fact that
specifies the reason for the decision.
         (c)   In approving the variance, the Board of Adjustment may prescribe
reasonable and appropriate conditions which will ensure that the use will be
compatible with adjacent properties and will not alter the character of the
neighborhood.
         (d)   Conditions may be imposed by the Board of Adjustment regarding
the location, character, and other features of the proposed building or use as
may be deemed by the Board of Adjustment to protect property values and general
welfare of the neighborhood. Nonconformance with such conditions and
safeguards, when part of the terms under which the variance is granted, shall
be deemed a violation of this chapter.
      (2)   Findings of fact. No variance shall be approved by the Board of
Adjustment unless all of the following findings are made:
         (a)   There are exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular
piece of property in question because of its shape, size, or topography, that
are not applicable to other lands or structures in the same district, or there
is a peculiar characteristic of an establishment which makes the parking and/or
loading requirements of this chapter unrealistic;
         (b)   Granting the variance requested will not confer upon the
applicant any special privileges that are denied to other residents of the
district in which the property is located;
         (c)   A literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other residents of the
district in which the property is located;
         (d)   The requested variance will be in harmony with the purpose and
intent of this chapter and will not be injurious to the neighborhood or to the
general welfare;
         (e)   The special circumstances are not the result of the actions of
the applicant;
         (f)   The variance requested is the minimum variance that will make
possible the legal use of the land, building, or structure;
         (g)   The variance is not a request to permit a use which is not a
permitted or conditional use in the district involved; and
         (h)   The variance is not granted simply because by granting the
variance, the property could be utilized more profitably or that the developer/
owner would save money.
   (G)   Watershed protection.
      (1)   An appeal to reverse or modify the order, decision, determination,
or interpretation of the Planning Director shall comply with §
156.717.
      (2)   A petition for variance to the standards of watershed protection
shall comply with the following:
         (a)   Minor variances. Minor variances shall include petitions for the
reduction of any standard of watershed protection, by a factor of less than
10%, except residential density or impervious surface area.
         (b)   Major variances.
            1.   Petitions for the reduction of any standard of the watershed
protection, by a factor of 10% or more; and
            2.   Petitions to increase residential density or impervious
surface area.
         (c)   Approval procedures.
            1.   Prior to the Board of Adjustment meeting, the Planning
Director shall notify in  writing the Towns of Smithfield, Selma and Wilsons
Mill, and Johnston County of the variance being requested. Written responses
from any of these local governments using the Neuse River as a water supply
shall become a permanent part of the records.
            2.   Minor variances shall be approved by the Board of Adjustment
in accordance  with divisions (B) through (F) above.
            3.   Major variances shall comply with divisions (B) through (F)
above except that:
               a.   A decision by the Board of Adjustment to approve a major
variance shall be advisory only. The Planning Director shall, within 30 days,
forward a record of the Board of Adjustment hearing, findings, and conclusions
to the appropriate state agency for final decision; and
               b.   The Board of Adjustment may advise approval of a major
variance petition upon satisfying the findings of division (F)(2) above, or
upon the finding that significant community economic or social benefit would be
derived from the granting of the variance.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.717  ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS.
   (A)   Applicability. An appeal by any person aggrieved by a final order,
interpretation or decision of the Planning Director or other administrator of
this chapter in regard to the provisions of this chapter may be taken to the
Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   Application requirements.
      (1)   An appeal of an administrative decision shall be taken by filing a
written notice of appeal specifying the grounds for the appeal with the
Planning Director and the Board of Adjustment.
      (2)   An application for appeal of an administrative decision shall be
submitted in accordance with §
156.702.
      (3)   A notice of appeal of an administrative decision shall be
considered filed when a complete application is delivered to the Planning
Director. The date and time of filing shall be entered on the notice.
   (C)   Deadline for submission of application. An appeal of an administrative
decision shall be filed with the Board of Adjustment within 30 days of receipt
of the decision.
   (D)   Notice and public hearings. The town shall hold all required public
hearings and give notice in accordance with §
156.702.
   (E)   Action by Planning Director. The Planning Director or designee shall
transmit to the Board of Adjustment all the papers constituting the record upon
which the action appealed from was taken.
   (F)   Action by Board of Adjustment.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment may reverse or affirm (wholly or partly) or
may modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from and
shall make any order, requirement, decision or determination that in its
opinion ought to be made in the case before it. To this end, the Board of
Adjustment shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is
taken.
      (2)   A motion to reverse, affirm, or modify the order, requirement,
decision, or determination appealed from shall include, insofar as practicable,
a statement of the specific reasons  or findings of fact that support the
motion.
      (3)   If a motion to reverse or modify is not made, or fails to receive
the 4/5 of members eligible to vote then appeal shall be denied.
      (4)   Any motion to overturn a decision shall state the reasons or
findings of fact that support the motion.
   (G)   Effect of appeal.
      (1)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed, unless the administrative official from who the appeal is taken
certifies to the Board of Adjustment that, because of facts stated in the
certificate, a stay would, in their opinion, cause imminent peril to life or
property or that because the violation is transitory in nature a stay would
seriously interfere with the effective enforcement of this chapter. In that
case, proceedings shall not be stayed except by order of the Board of
Adjustment or a court, issued on application of the party seeking the stay, for
due cause shown, after notice to the administrative official.
      (2)   An appeal shall not stop action lawfully approved (including
construction activities authorized by a building permit); only actions presumed
in violation of this chapter are stayed.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.718  ZONING VESTED RIGHT.
   (A)   Applicability. The purpose of this section is to implement the
provisions of G.S. § 160A-385.1 pursuant to which a statutory zoning vested
right is established upon the approval of a site specific development plan.
   (B)   Establishment.
      (1)   A zoning vested right shall be deemed established upon the valid
approval, or conditional approval, by the Town Board of Commissioners, of a
site specific development plan.
      (2)   The approving authority may approve a site specific development
plan upon such terms and conditions as may reasonably be necessary to protect
the public health, safety and welfare.
      (3)   Notwithstanding divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2)  above, approval of a
site specific development plan with the condition that a variance be obtained
shall not confer a zoning vested right unless and until the necessary variance
is obtained.
      (4)   A site specific development plan shall be deemed approved upon the
effective date of the approval authority's action or ordinance relating
thereto.
      (5)   The establishment of a zoning vested right shall not preclude the
application of overlay zoning that imposes additional requirements, but does
not affect the allowable type or intensity of use, or ordinances or regulations
that are general in nature and are applicable to all property subject to land
use regulation by the town, including, but not limited to, building, fire,
plumbing, electrical and mechanical codes. Otherwise applicable, new or amended
regulations shall become effective with respect to property that is subject to
a site specific development plan upon the expiration or termination of the
vested right in accordance with this chapter.
      (6)   A zoning vested right is not a personal right, but shall attach to
and run with the applicable property. After approval of a site specific
development plan, all successors to the original landowner shall be entitled to
exercise such right while applicable.
   (C)   Approval procedures.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, an application for
site specific development plan approval shall be processed in accordance with
the procedures established by ordinance and shall be considered by the
designated approval authority for the specific type of zoning or land use
permit or approval for which application is made.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (1) above, if the
authority to issue a  particular zoning or land use permit or approval has been
delegated by ordinance to a board, committee or administrative official other
than the Town Board of Commissioners or Board of Adjustment, in order to obtain
a zoning vested right, the applicant must request in writing at the time of
application that the application be considered and acted on by the Town Board
of Commissioners or Board of Adjustment, following notice and a public hearing
as provided in G.S. § 160A-364.
      (3)   In order for a zoning vested right to be established upon approval
of a site specific development plan, the applicant must indicate at the time of
application, on a form to be provided by the town, that a zoning vested right
is being sought.
      (4)   Each map, plat, site plan or other document evidencing a site
specific development plan shall contain the following notation: "Approval of
this plan established a zoning vested right under G.S. § 160A-385.1. Unless
terminated at an earlier date, the zoning vested right shall be valid until
(date)."
      (5)   Following approval or conditional approval of a site specific
development plan, nothing in this chapter shall exempt such a plan from
subsequent reviews and approvals to ensure compliance with the terms and
conditions of the original approval, provided that such reviews and approvals
are not inconsistent with the original approval.
      (6)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the revocation of the
original approval or other remedies for failure to comply with applicable terms
and conditions of the approval or this chapter.
   (D)   Duration.
      (1)   A zoning right that has been vested as provided in this chapter
shall remain vested for a period of 2 years unless specifically and
unambiguously provided otherwise pursuant to division (D)(2) below. This
vesting shall not be extended to any amendments or modifications to a site
specific development plan unless expressly provided by the approval authority
at the time the amendment or modification is approved.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (1) above, the approval
authority may provide that rights shall be vested for a period exceeding 2
years by not exceeding 5 years where warranted in light of all relevant
circumstances, including, but not limited to, the size of the development, the
level of the development, economic cycles, and market conditions. These
determinations shall be in the sound discretion of the approval authority at
the time the site specific development plan is approved.
      (3)   Upon issuance of a building permit, the expiration provisions of
G.S. § 160A-418 and the revocation provisions of G.S. § 160A-422 shall apply,
except that a building permit shall not expire or be revoked because of the
running of time while a zoning vested right under this section is outstanding.
   (E)   Termination. A zoning right that has been vested as provided in this
chapter shall terminate:
      (1)   At the end of the applicable vesting period with respect to
buildings and uses for which no valid building permit applications have been
filed;
      (2)   With the written consent of the affected landowner;
      (3)   Upon findings by the Town Board of Commissioners, by ordinance
after notice and a public hearing, that natural or man-made hazards on or in
the immediate vicinity of the property, if uncorrected, would pose a serious
threat to the public health, safety, and welfare if the project were to proceed
was contemplated in the site specific development plan;
      (4)   Upon payment to the affected landowner of compensation for all
costs, expenses, and other losses incurred by the landowner, including, but not
limited to, all fees paid in consideration of financing, and all architectural,
planning, marketing, legal, and other consultant's fees incurred after approval
by the city, together with interest thereon at the legal rate until paid.
Compensation shall not include any diminution in the value of the property
which is cause by such action;
      (5)   Upon findings by the Town Board of Commissioners by ordinance after
notice and a hearing, that the landowner or his or her representative
intentionally supplied inaccurate information or made material
misrepresentations which made a difference in the approval by the approval
authority  of the site specific development plan; or
      (6)   Upon the enactment or promulgation of a state or federal law or
regulation that precludes development as contemplated in the site specific
development plan, in which case the approval authority may modify the affected
provisions, upon a finding that the change in state or federal law has a
fundamental effect on the plan, by ordinance after notice and a hearing.
   (F)   Voluntary annexation. A petition for annexation filed with the town
under G.S. § 160A-31 or G.S. § 160A-58.1 shall contain a signed statement
declaring whether or not any zoning vested right with respect to the properties
subject to the petition has been established under G.S. § 160A-385.1 or G.S.
§153A-344.
      (1)   A statement  that  declares that no zoning vested right has been
established under  G.S. § 160A-385.1 or G.S. § 153A-344.1, or the failure to
sign a statement declaring whether or not a zoning vested right has been
established, shall be binding on the landowner and any such zoning vested right
shall be terminated.
   (G)   Limitations. Nothing in this chapter is intended or shall be deemed to
create any vested right other than those established pursuant to G.S. § 160A-
385.1.
   (H)   Repealer. In the event that G.S. § 160A-385.1 is repealed, this
chapter shall be deemed repealed and the provisions hereof no longer effective.
   (I)   Effective date. This chapter shall be effective and shall only apply
to site specific development plans approved on or after November 18, 1991.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.719  NONCONFORMITIES.
   A lawful preexisting use, structure, or lot that does not meet the
requirements of this chapter is called a nonconformity. Special provisions
apply to nonconformities, as set forth in this section.
   (A)   Existing substandard structures.
      (1)   The conforming use of a structure, as explained in §
156.109, existing at the time of the adoption of this chapter, may be
continued, although the structure's size or location does not conform with the
yard, dimensional, height, parking, loading, access, lot area, and lot coverage
provisions of this chapter. Such structures are called substandard structures.
      (2)   Substandard structures which are damaged or destroyed by fire,
explosion, flood, or other calamity to the extent of more than 50% of the value
of the structure, as determined by the town, may be reconstructed and shall
comply with the applicable provisions of this chapter for the district in which
such structure is located, unless the structure is situated on a substandard 
lot of record, in which case the provisions concerning substandard lots of
record shall apply.
      (3)   A substandard structure, including a mobile home, may not be moved
off the lot or lots on which it is located, unless when relocated within the
jurisdiction of the town, it complies with the regulations for the district in
which it is located. Further, any subsequent reuse of the lot or lots from
which the substandard structure has been moved must comply with the regulations
for the district in which it is located.
      (4)   A substandard structure may be enlarged or expanded, provided that
any expansion meets all of the requirements for the zoning district, including,
but not limited to the yard, dimensional, height, parking, loading, access, lot
area, and lot coverage provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Existing nonconforming uses. The nonconforming use of a structure or
land at the time of the adoption of this chapter may be continued, except that:
      (1)   Only that portion of the land in actual use may be so continued,
and the nonconforming use may not be enlarged or extended, nor may any
additional structures be added to be occupied by the nonconforming use, unless
by special use permit, except that existing cemeteries can expand to the
boundaries of the property which they owned at the time they became
nonconforming.
      (2)   Normal maintenance, repair, and incidental alteration of a building
occupied by a nonconforming use is permitted, provided it does not extend the
nonconforming use. A structure occupied by a nonconforming use may be changed
to make the structure more in character with the uses permitted in the district
in which it is located.
      (3)   If such nonconforming use is damaged by fire, explosion, flood, or
other calamity to the extent of more than 50% of its current equalized value,
it shall not be restored unless it will comply with the use provisions of this
chapter, except that nonconforming owner-occupied single-family dwellings may
be restored. Multifamily development approved prior to June 4, 1996 may be
restored in a manner which does not increase any nonconforming density,
setback, or spacing of building standards approved in the original site plan,
upon granting of a special use permit by the Town Board of Commissioners in
accordance with §
156.711.
      (4)   If such nonconforming use is discontinued or terminated, as
evidenced by the disconnection of electrical service to such nonconforming use
for a period of 180 days, any future use of the structure or land shall comply
with the provisions of this chapter.
      (5)   A nonconforming use, such as, but not limited to mobile homes, may
not be moved off the lot or lots on which it is located, unless, when relocated
within the jurisdiction of the town, it complies with the regulations for the
district in which it is located. Further, any subsequent reuse of the lot or
lots from which the nonconforming use has been moved must comply with  the
regulations for the district in which it is located.
      (6)   The Town Board of Commissioners may permit as a special use a
change in nonconforming  use, provided that the requirements of divisions (B)
(1) through (5)  above are met, and the Town Board of Commissioners finds that
such new use would be more in character with the uses permitted in the district
than the previous use. In permitting such change, the Town Board of
Commissioners may require appropriate conditions and safeguards in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
      (7)   Once a nonconforming use has been changed or altered so as to
comply with the provisions of this chapter, it shall not revert back to a
nonconforming use. Once the Board of Adjustment has permitted the substitution
of a more restrictive nonconforming use for an existing nonconforming use, the
substituted use shall lose its status as a nonconforming use and become subject
to all the conditions required by the Board. If the structure occupied by a
nonconforming use is changed so as to be more in character with the uses
permitted in the district in which it is located, it shall not subsequently be
changed to be less in character.
   (C)   Existing vacant substandard lots.
      (1)   Where the owner of a lot at the time of the original passage of
this chapter, or any successor in title does not own sufficient land to conform
to the lot area or lot width requirements of this chapter, such a lot may be
used as a building site for a single-family residence in a district in which
residences are permitted, provided that the lot width and lot area are not more
than 20% below the minimum specified in this chapter, and further provided that
the County Health Department approves the reduction of on-site water or
wastewater facilities are involved. In cases where the lot area and lot width
are more than 20% below the minimum specified in this chapter, or other
requirements cannot be met, the Board of Adjustment is authorized to approve as
a variance such dimensions as shall conform as closely as possible to the
required dimensions specified in this chapter. In addition, nonresidential uses
of land permitted in the applicable nonresidential zoning district may be
granted a variance for development on a substandard lot, subject to approval by
the Board of Adjustment and the required findings set forth in division (C)(2)
below.
      (2)   If 2 or more adjoining and vacant lots are in one ownership when
this chapter is adopted, or  at any time after the adoption of this chapter,
and such lots individually do not meet the dimensional requirements of this
chapter for the district in which such lots are located, then  such group of
lots shall be considered as a single lot and therefore the provisions of
division (B)(1) above do not apply.
   (D)   Nonconforming signs.
      (1)   Amortization of nonconforming signs. Any sign existing prior to
April 7, 1986 which does not conform to the requirements of this chapter may be
continued with the following exceptions; however, all nonconforming signs shall
be brought into compliance or removed within the time limits specified in
division (D)(3) below.
         (a)   Portable and windblown signs as defined in §
156.403, shall be removed by January 1, 1987.
         (b)   All moving signs shall cease movement by July 7, 1986.
         (c)   All non-governmental flashing signs shall stop flashing by July
7, 1986.
      (2)   Enlargement and revision of nonconforming signs. No nonconforming
sign shall be erected, replaced, or otherwise modified in such a way as to
increase its nonconformity. Reasonable repair and maintenance of nonconforming
signs, including the change of an advertising message, is permitted, provided
that a nonconforming sign which is damaged or deteriorated to the extent of 50%
or more of its value shall not be replaced unless it conforms to all provisions
of this chapter.
      (3)   Removal of nonconforming signs.
         (a)   Nonconforming signs, when removed for other than normal
maintenance, may not be erected again, nor may any such sign be replaced with
another nonconforming sign.
         (b)   All nonconforming signs erected before the date of adoption of
this chapter shall be removed or modified so as to conform to this chapter by
February 1, 2002.
   (E)   Nonconformities in the water protection overlay (WP). Nonconforming
lots, buildings and structures may be continued and maintained subject to the
provisions as set forth below. Impervious surface area is not required to be
included in the density calculations.
      (1)   Vacant lots. This category consists of vacant lots for which plats
or deeds have been recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds. Lots
may be used for any of the uses allowed in the WP Overlay in which it is
located, provided the following:
         (a)   Where the lot area is below the minimum specified and no other
standard needs to be modified to use the lot for residential purposes.
         (b)   Notwithstanding division (a) above, whenever 2 or more adjoining
residential vacant  lots of record are in single ownership at any time after
the adoption of this chapter, and  such lots individually have less area than
the minimum requirements for residential purposes for the WP Overlay such lots
shall be combined to create a single lot or lots which meet or minimize the
degree of nonconformity.
      (2)   Occupied lots. This category consists of lots occupied for
residential purposes at the time of the adoption of  this chapter. These lots
may continue to be used, provided that whenever 2 or more adjoining lots of
record, one of which is occupied, are in single ownership at any time after the
adoption of this chapter, and such lots individually or together have less area
than the minimum requirements for residential purposes specified, such lots
shall be combined to create lots which meet the minimum size requirements, or
which minimize the degree of nonconformity.
      (3)   Buildings and impervious surfaces. This category includes any
buildings or impervious surface area existing at the time of adoption of this
chapter not in conformance with the restrictions of this chapter. Such
buildings and impervious surface areas shall be allowed to remain.
      (4)   Reconstruction of damaged buildings or impervious surfaces. Any
existing building or impervious surface area not in conformance with the
restriction of this chapter that has been damaged by fire, wind, flood or other
causes, may be repaired and used as before. The total amount of space devoted
to impervious surface area may not be increased unless stormwater controls that
equals or exceeds the previous development is provided.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.720  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement of provisions. The Planning Director and Code Enforcement
Officer shall be charged with the enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter. If the Planning Director or Code Enforcement Officer find that any of
the provisions of this chapter are being violated, he or she shall notify in
writing the persons responsible for such violations, indicating the nature of
violation and ordering the actions necessary to correct it. They shall also
take any other action authorized by this chapter to ensure compliance with or
to prevent violation of its provisions.
   (B)   Penalty.
      (1)   In accordance with G.S. § 160A-175, any person violating any
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon
conviction shall be punished for each offense by a fine or by imprisonment.
Each day a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (2)   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building, structure,
or land is used in violation of this chapter, the Planning Director, Code
Enforcement Officer, or any other appropriate town authority, in addition to
other remedies, may institute injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action
in proceeding  to prevent the violation.
      (3)   The following penalties as set forth in the General Statutes shall
also prevail: G.S. §160A-375, "Penalties for Transferring Lots in Unapproved
Subdivisions; ....any person who, being the owner or agent of the owner of any
land located within the jurisdiction of that city, thereafter subdivides his
land in violation of the ordinance or transfers or sells land by reference to,
exhibition of, or any other use of a plat showing a subdivision of the land
before the plat has been properly approved under such ordinance and recorded in
the office of the appropriate register of deeds, shall be guilty of a Class 1
misdemeanor. The description by metes  and bounds in the instrument of transfer
or other document used in the process of selling or transferring land shall not
exempt the transaction from this penalty. The city may bring an  action for
injunction of any illegal subdivision, transfer, conveyance, or sale of land,
and the court shall, upon appropriate findings, issue an injunction and order
requiring the offending party to comply with the subdivision ordinance."
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
DEFINITIONS
§ 156.800  GENERAL.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
   (B)   Words used in the singular number include the plural, and words used
in the plural include the singular.
   (C)   The word "person" or "applicant" includes firms, associations,
organizations, partnerships, corporations, trusts, trustees, estates,
individuals, companies, and other similar entities.
   (D)   The word "structure" includes the word "building."
   (E)   The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   (F)   The word "used," as applied to any land or building, shall be
construed to include the words "intended," "arranged," or "designed to be
used."
   (G)   "Zoning map" shall mean the official Zoning Map of the Town of Kenly,
North Carolina.
   (H)   The words "Town Board of Commissioners," shall refer to the Town Board
of Commissioners of the Town of Kenly, North Carolina.
   (I)   The words "Planning Board" shall refer to the Planning Board of the
Town of Kenly, North Carolina.
   (J)   The words "Board of Adjustment" shall refer to the Board of Adjustment
of the Town of Kenly, North Carolina.
   (K)   The words "day" or "days" shall refer to calendar days and shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last day, unless the last
day is a Saturday or Sunday or a holiday declared by the United States Congress
or the State of North Carolina, in which event it shall also be excluded.
   (L)   Any term not herein defined shall be as defined elsewhere in the Town
Code of Ordinances  or, if not defined elsewhere in the Town Code of
Ordinances, as defined in Webster's New International Dictionary, most recent
edition.
   (M)   In case of any difference of meaning or implication between the text
of this chapter and any caption, illustration or table, the text shall control.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.801  ABBREVIATIONS.
   (A)   BMP: Best Management Practices.
   (B)   BOA: Board of Adjustment.
   (C)   dbh: Diameter at Breast Height.
   (D)   GFA: Gross Floor Area.
   (E)   FAA: Federal Aviation Administration.
   (F)   FCC: Federal Communications Commission.
   (G)   NCDOT: North Carolina Department of Transportation.
   (H)   NIER: Non-Ionizing Electromagnetic Radiation.
   (I)   PB: Planning Board.
   (J)   PD: Planning Director.
   (K)   PW: Public Works Director.
   (L)   TIA: Traffic Impact Analysis.
   (M)   TC: Town Board of Commissioners.
   (N)   TRC: Technical Review Committee.
   (O)   UDC: Unified Development Code.
   (P)   USGS: United States Geologic Survey.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
§ 156.802  DEFINED TERMS.
   As used in this chapter:
   ABUTTING. The property directly touches another piece of property.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING, STRUCTURE, OR USE. A detached building, structure, or
use on the same lot with, or of a nature customarily incidental or subordinate
to, and of a character related to the principal use or structure (see §
156.305).
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT. A dwelling that exists as part of a principal
dwelling or on the same lot  as the principal dwelling and is subordinate in
size to the principal dwelling (see §
156.305).
   ADJACENT. Property abutting directly on the boundary of, touching, or
sharing a common point.
   ADULT CABARET. Any place featuring topless dancers, go-go dancers,
strippers, male or female impersonators, or entertainers displaying "specified
anatomical areas" as defined by G.S. § 14-202.10, as such statute may be
amended from time to time, or other similar entertainers.
   ADULT CARE HOME. An assisted living residence in which the housing
management provides 24-hour scheduled and unscheduled personal care services to
residents, either directly or, for scheduled needs, through formal written
agreement with licensed home care or hospice agencies. Some licensed adult care
homes provide supervision to persons with cognitive impairments whose
decisions, if made independently, may jeopardize the safety or well-being of
themselves or others and therefore require supervision.
   ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any place defined as an "adult establishment" as
defined by G.S. § 14-202.10, as such statute may be amended from time to time,
including adult cabarets, and  except the definition of "massage business"
shall not include any establishment or business where massage is practiced that
is a health club, exercise studio, hospital, physical therapy business or other
similar health-related business. ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS specifically includes,
however, any massage business where massages are rendered by any person
exhibiting "specified anatomical areas" and/or where massages are performed on
any client's "specified anatomical areas." "Specified anatomical areas" are
those defined by G.S. § 14-202.10. as such statute may be amended from time to
time.
   ALTERATION. Any change, addition, or modification in construction or
occupancy of an existing structure.
   AMUSEMENT CENTER. Any indoor place that contains 3 or more amusement devices
of any description, including but not limited to pinball games, billiards,
computer amusement (video games), and/or games of chance for the public
amusement, patronage and recreation.
   ANTENNA. A system of electrical conductors that transmit or receive
electromagnetic waves or radio frequency or other wireless signals. Such shall
include, but not be limited to radio, television, cellular, paging, personal
telecommunications services (PCS), microwave telecommunications and services
not licensed by the FCC, but not expressly exempt from the town's siting,
building and permitting authority.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Town Board of Commissioners, Board of Adjustment or
other board or official designated by ordinance or this chapter as being
authorized to grant the specific zoning or land use permit or approval that
constitutes a site specific development plan.
   ARTIST STUDIO, GALLERY.A building used for the preparation and display of
individually crafted artwork, jewelry, furniture, sculpture, pottery,
leathercraft, hand-woven articles, and related items.
   ASSISTED LIVING RESIDENCE. Any group housing and services program for 2 or
more unrelated adults, by whatever name it is called, that makes available, at
a minimum, one meal a day and housekeeping services and provides personal care
services directly or through a formal written agreement with one or more
licensed home care or hospice agencies.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. A building containing one or more guest rooms for an
overnight stay which are rented at a daily rate and where breakfast is the only
meal served to guests.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). A structural or nonstructural management-
based practice used singularly or in combination to reduce non-point source
inputs to receiving waters in order  to achieve water quality protection goals.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building, other than a hotel/motel or bed and breakfast,
containing not more than 9 guest rooms. At least one meal is provided to
guests. Individual guest rooms may not contain kitchens.
   BUFFER. See §
156.402.
   BUFFER, PARKING. See §
156.402.
   BUFFER, PERIMETER. See §
156.402.
   BUFFER, STREET. See §
156.402.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls, and
intended for shelter, housing, or enclosure of persons, animals, or property.
   BUILDING COVERAGE. See §
156.201.
   BUILDING SEPARATION. See §
156.201.
   CALIPER. The diameter of plant material, measured at 6 inches above grade
for calipers of up to 4 inches, and 12 inches above grade for larger calipers.
   CEMETERY. A place used or to be used and dedicated or designated for
interments of human remains or pet animal remains.
   CHILD CARE. A program or arrangement where 3 or more children less than 13
years old, who do not reside where the care is provided, receive care on a
regular basis of at least once per week for more than 4 hours but less than 24
hours per day from persons other than their guardians or full-time custodians,
or from persons not related to them by birth, marriage, or adoption.
   CHILD CARE HOME. A child care home is a child care arrangement located in a
residence where, at any one time, more than 2 children, but less than 9
children, receive child care.
   CHILD CARE CENTER. A child care center is an arrangement where, at any one
time, there are 9 or more preschool-age children or 9 or more school-age
children receiving child care.
   CLUB, CIVIC.An organization of persons for specific purposes or for the
promulgation of sports, arts, literature, politics, or the like, but not
operated for profit, excluding churches, synagogues, or other houses of
worship.
   CLUB, PRIVATE. Any establishment that is organized and operated solely for a
social, recreational, patriotic or fraternal purpose that is not open to the
general public, but is open only to the members of the organization and their
bona fide guests. The definition of private clubs does not include adult
oriented businesses as defined in this section.
   CO-LOCATION. The use of a tower or structure to support antennae for the
provision of wireless services without increasing the height of the tower or
structure.
   COLLEGE. An educational institution authorized by the state to award
associate, baccalaureate, or higher degrees.
   COMMERCIAL IMPRACTICABILITY or COMMERCIALLY IMPRACTICABLE.  The  inability
to perform an act on terms that are reasonable in commerce, the cause or
occurrence of which could not have been reasonably anticipated or foreseen and
that jeopardizes the financial efficacy of the project. The inability to
achieve a satisfactory financial return on investment or profit, standing
alone, shall not deem a situation to be commercially impracticable and shall
not render an act or the terms of an agreement commercially impracticable.
   COMMON SIGNAGE PLAN. See §
156.714.
   COMPLEX. See §
156.301.
   CONDITIONAL USE. See §
156.710.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. See §
156.710.
   CONSTRUCTION. On-site erection, fabrication, installation, alteration,
demolition or removal of any structure, facility, or addition thereto,
including all related activities, including, but not restricted to, clearing of
land, earthmoving, blasting and landscaping.
   CONTRACTOR'S OFFICE. A facility for a building, heating, plumbing,
electrical, landscape, janitorial or similar contractor. May include overnight
storage of fleet vehicles in some districts.
   CONVENTIONAL RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION. See §
156.203.
   COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Johnston County Health Department.
   CREMATORIUM. A building used for the cremation of human remains.
   CROSSWALK. A public pedestrian right-of-way which cuts across a block to
facilitate pedestrian access to adjacent streets and properties.
   DEDICATION. The transfer without payment of ownership or other interest in
real property from a private entity to a public agency.
   DENSITY. See §
156.201.
   DEVELOPMENT. The subdivision of land into 2 or more parcels, the
construction or reconstruction, conversion, structural alteration, relocation,
or enlargement of any structure, any mining excavation, landfill, land
disturbance; and any use or extension of the use of land.
   DEVELOPMENT, EXISTING. Those developments as of the effective date of this
chapter that are built, or those developments having an outstanding valid
building permit or a site-specific development plan as authorized by G. S. §
160A-3 85.1, or having an approved site-specific or phased development plan in
compliance with G.S. § 153A-344 or G.S. § 160A-385, and having expended
substantial resources (time, labor, money), or meeting the court-created common
law or constitutional standards of a substantial expenditure of resources
(time, labor, or money) based on a good faith reliance upon having received a
valid local government approval to proceed with the project.
   DISH ANTENNA OR EARTH STATION. An accessory structure with a combination of
(1) antenna or dish antenna, whose purpose is to receive communication or other
signals from a transmitter or transmitter relay located in planetary orbit; (2)
a low noise amplifier which is situated at a focal point of the receiving
component, and whose purpose is to magnify and transfer signals; and (3) a
coaxial cable whose purpose is to carry the signals into the interior of the
building.
   DISTRICT, GENERAL USE. See §
156.200.
   DISTRICT, OVERLAY. See §
156.200.
   DISTRICT, SPECIAL USE. See §
156.200.
   DRIVEWAY. A private roadway located on a parcel or lot used for vehicle
access.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building, or portion thereof, providing complete and
permanent living facilities for one household and includes the following (see
also §
156.202):
      (1)   ALLEY-LOADED HOUSE.
      (2)   APARTMENT.
      (3)   SINGLE FAMILY DETACHED.
      (4)   TOWNHOUSE.
      (5)   TWO-FAMILY HOUSE.
      (6)   UPPER-STORY RESIDENTIAL.
      (7)   ZERO LOT LINE HOUSE.
   EASEMENT. A grant of one or more of the property rights by the owner to, or
for the use by, the public, a corporation, or another person or entity.
   ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATIONS. Any business enterprise, whether as a
principal or accessory use, where persons utilize electronic machines,
including but not limited to computers and gaming terminals, whether connected
to the internet or not, to conduct games of chance, including sweepstakes, and
where cash, merchandise or other items of value are redeemed or otherwise
distributed, whether or not the value of such distribution is determined by
electronic games  played or by predetermined odds, which have a finite pool of
winners. Electronic gaming operations including, but not limited to, internet
cafes, internet sweepstakes, business centers, electronic gaming machines/
operations, video sweepstakes, cybercafés, or by whatever other terminology
such establishment might be known. This does not include any lottery approved
by the State of North Carolina
   EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION. That portion of the town's planning area
located outside the corporate boundaries of the town.
   FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, adoption, or marriage, living
together as a single housekeeping unit, exclusive of household servants. A
number of persons not exceeding 5, living together as a single housekeeping
unit, though not related by blood, adoption, or marriage, shall be deemed to
constitute a family, as shall a foster care home approved by the state.
   FENCE. Any artificially constructed barrier of any material or combination
of materials erected to  enclose or screen areas of land.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. See §
156.201.
   FLOOD FRINGE AREA. That area of the floodplain lying outside the floodway
but still lying within the area of special flood hazard, that is within the
100-year floodplain.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any normally dry land area that is susceptible to being
inundated by waters of the 1% annual chance flood, that is the 100-year flood.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
area that must be reserved in order to discharge the velocity waters of the
regulatory flood.
   FRONTAGE. The dimension of a property that is adjacent to a street.
   FUNERAL HOME. A building used for the preparation of the deceased for burial
and display of the deceased before burial or cremation. A funeral home, as
defined in this chapter, includes a funeral chapel.
   GAS STATION WITH CONVENIENCE RETAIL. A building used for the sale of
gasoline products that also offers for sales prepackaged food items and
tangible consumer goods, primarily for self- service by the consumer. Hot
beverages, fountain-type beverage, and pastries may be included in the food
items offered for sale, but food items that are prepared or individually
proportioned on the premises shall be prohibited.
   GROUND COVER. Any natural vegetative growth or other material which renders
the soil surface stable against accelerated erosion.
   GUEST ROOM. A room or suite used as living accommodations for 1 or more
paying visitors.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Any substance listed as such in: SARA Section 302,
"Extremely Hazardous Substances," CERCLA "Hazardous Substances," or Section 311
of CWA (oil and hazardous substances).
   HEIGHT. See §
156.201.
   HOME OCCUPATION. See §
156.305.
   HOSPITAL. An institution providing human health services primarily for in-
patient medical and surgical care for the physically or mentally sick and
injured and including related support facilities such as laboratories, out-
patient departments, staff offices, food services, and gift shop.
   HOTEL/MOTEL. A building containing one or more guest rooms, for overnight
guests, and containing registration facilities, on-site management, cleaning
services and combined utilities.
   HOUSEHOLD. One or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. See §
156.201.
   JUNK. A dilapidated scrap or abandoned metal, paper, building materials and
equipment, bottles, glass, appliances, furniture, beds and bedding, rags,
rubber, motor vehicles, or parts thereof.
   JUNK YARD. The use of more than 600 square feet of any lot or parcel for
outdoor storage and/or sale of waste paper, rags, scrap metal, or other junk,
including the storage of automobiles or other vehicles, or dismantling of such
vehicles or machinery or parts thereof.
   KENNEL. An establishment for the keeping or breeding of dogs for profit, or
having 4 dogs or more on any premises.
   LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any use of land in residential, industrial,
educational, institutional or commercial development, highway and road
construction and maintenance that results in a  change in the natural cover or
topography and that may cause or contribute to sedimentation. Sedimentation
occurs whenever solid particulate matter, mineral or organic, is transported by
water, air, gravity, or ice from the site of its origin, and is deposited
elsewhere.
   LANDFILL. A disposal facility or part of a disposal facility where solid
waste is placed in or on land in accordance with G.S. § 130A, Article 9. For
the purpose of this chapter, this term does not include composting facilities.
   LANDSCAPE PLAN. See §
156.402.
   LANDSCAPING. Any live plant material such as trees, shrubs, ground cover,
and grass used in spaces void of any impervious material or building
structures, areas left in their natural state or areas where mulch is used as a
ground cover.
   LIVESTOCK. All animals kept or raised on a farm, except however, that
necessary working animals  and pets are not included.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING AREA. A completely off-street space on the same lot
for the loading or unloading of freight carriers with ingress and egress to a
street or alley (see §
156.401).
   LOCAL STREET NETWORK. System of local streets that include commercial
streets,  collector streets, residential collectors, cul-de-sacs, and alleys
(see §
156.602).
   LOT. See §
156.201.
   LOT AREA. See §
156.201.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot that occupies the interior angle at the intersection of 2
or more right-of-way lines. A lot abutting on the right-of-way of a curved
street or streets shall be considered a corner lot if straight lines drawn from
the foremost points of the side lot lines to the foremost point of the lot meet
at an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A continuous or through lot of the same depth as the
width of a block, and which is accessible from both of the streets upon which
it fronts.
   LOT, FLAG. An irregularly shaped lot which has an appendage or extension
which does not meet lot width requirements of the district at the street.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the Office
of the Register of Deeds of Johnston County, or a lot described by metes and
bounds, the description of which has been so recorded.
   LOT WIDTH. See §
156.201.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
in the traveling mode is 8 body feet or more in width, or 40 body feet or more
in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet; and which is
built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling, with or
without permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities,
including the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems
contained therein. MANUFACTURED HOME includes any structure that meets all of
the requirements of this definition except the size requirements and with
respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by
the Secretary of HUD and complies with the standards established under the
Manufactured Home Act.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Any plat of ground upon which 2 or more manufactured
homes, occupied for dwelling purposes, are located, regardless of whether a
charge is made for such accommodations. Includes a recreation vehicle park.
   MOBILE HOME. A portable manufactured housing unit built before June 15, 1976
designed for transportation on its own chassis and placement on a temporary or
semi-permanent foundation having a measurement of over 32 feet in length and
over 8 feet in width. MANUFACTURED HOME also means a double wide manufactured
home, which is 2 or more portable manufactured housing units designed for
transportation on their own chassis that connect on site for placement on a
temporary or semi-permanent foundation having a measurement of over 32 feet in
length and over 8 feet in width.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any plat of ground upon which 2 or more mobile homes,
occupied for dwelling purposes, are located, regardless of whether a charge is
made for such accommodations.
   MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING. A building arranged to be occupied by 2 or more
families. This term shall include apartments, townhouses, and upper-story
residential dwelling units.
   MUSEUM. Establishment for the display of art or historic or science objects.
   NET ACREAGE, ACRES, LAND AREA, SQUARE FOOTAGE OF LAND AREA. Land area  with
streets, rights-of-way, driveways which serve as access to more than 2 units or
uses, and major transmission lines not included in its measurement.
   NEWSPAPER PUBLISHER. A building used for the production and distribution of
newspapers, magazines and other related materials.
   NONCONFORMITY. See §
156.719.
   NONCONFORMING LOT OF RECORD. A lot described by a plat or a deed that was
recorded prior to the effective date of these watershed protection regulations
(or their amendments) that does not meet the minimum lot size or other
development requirements of the statewide watershed protection rules (See §
156.719).
   NURSING HOME. A facility, however named, which is advertised, announced, or
maintained for the express or implied purpose of providing nursing or
convalescent care for 3 or more persons unrelated to the licensee. A nursing
home is a home for chronic or convalescent patients, who, on admission, are not
as a rule, acutely ill and who do not usually require special facilities such
as an operating room, X-ray facilities, laboratory facilities, and obstetrical
facilities. A nursing home provides care for persons who have remedial ailments
or other ailments, for which medical and nursing care are indicated; who,
however, are not sick enough to require general hospital care. Nursing care is
their primary need, but they will require continuing medical supervision.
   OFFICE. A room, group of rooms, or building whose primary use is the conduct
of a business, professional service, or governmental activity of a non-retail
nature; including administration, record keeping, clerical work, and similar
functions. This definition is not meant to include manufacturing, processing,
repair, or storage of materials or products.
   OPEN SPACE RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION. See §
156.203.
   OUTDOOR DISPLAY. See §
156.405.
   OUTDOOR STORAGE. See §
156.405.
   OUTPARCEL. Individual retail sites in a retail center that, when combined,
are less than the square footage of the attached retail spaces which form the
majority of the square footage of the center.
   OWNER. Any person having charge of any real property according to the
records held by the Register of Deeds.
   PARCEL. See §
156.201.
   PARCEL AREA. See §
156.201.
   PARK. An area open to the general public and reserved for recreational,
education or scenic purposes (see §156.300).
   PARKING AREA. An area not within a building, where motor vehicles may be
stored for the purpose of temporary, daily, or overnight off-street parking
(see §
156.401).
   PARKING LOT. An area not within a building, where motor vehicles may be
stored for the purpose of temporary, daily, or overnight off-street parking
(see §
156.401).
   PARKING SPACE. A designated off-street area designed to accommodate the
parking of one vehicle.
   PERSONAL WIRELESS FACILITY. See WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES (PWS) or PERSONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE
(PCS). Shall have the same meaning as defined and used in the 1996
Telecommunications Act.
   PERVIOUS SURFACE. Ground treatments which will allow the infiltration of
water, air and nutrients to root systems of adjacent plant material which lie
directly under the ground treatment.
   PLANNING AREA. The land located within the corporate limits of the town and
the land located within the territorial jurisdiction established by the Town
Board of Commissioners.
   PILOT PLANT. A building or operation in which processes planned for use in
production elsewhere can be developed and/or tested, but not including the
production of any goods on the premises primarily for sale or for use in
production operations.
   PLACE OF WORSHIP. A building primarily used by a non-profit organization for
organized religious services and supporting uses.
   PLANTING AREA. Areas of a site where groupings (more than one) of trees,
shrubs and/or ground cover are proposed and are defined within a bed of mulch.
   PLAT. A map or plan of a parcel of land which is to be or which has been
subdivided.
   PLAT, FINAL. See §
156.706.
   PLAT, MINOR. See §
156.706.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. See §
156.706.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING, USE, OR STRUCTURE. The main use of a lot, or the
building or structure in or on which the main use of the lot takes place.
   PROHIBITED SIGN. See §
156.403.
   PROTECTED AREA. The area adjoining and upstream of the critical area in
which protection measures are required. The boundaries of the protected area
are defined as extending 10 miles upstream and draining to water supply or to
the ridge line of the watershed, whichever comes first.
   PUBLIC FACILITY. A building or area owned or used by any department or
branch of the Town of Kenly, the State of North Carolina, or the Federal
Government.
   PUBLIC STREET. A dedicated and accepted public right-of-way for vehicular
traffic.
   PUBLIC SEWER. Any sewerage system serving 10 or more customers.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply furnishing potable water to 10 or more
customers.
   RECREATIONAL CLUB, PRIVATE. Any indoor recreational establishment that is
not open to the general public, but is open only to the members of the
organization and their bona fide guests, including but not limited to a country
club, golf, swimming or tennis club.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) PARK. Land used or intended to be used, let, or
rented for  occupancy by vacationing transient campers traveling by automobile
or otherwise, or for occupancy by tents, or other movable or temporary sleeping
quarters of any kind, together with automobile parking spaces and incidental
utility structures and facilities required and provided in connection with the
use. This definition shall not include trailer sales lots where unoccupied
trailers are parked for inspection and sale.
   RECREATION AND OPEN SPACE. See §
156.203.
   RADIO OR TELEVISION STUDIO. A building used for radio (audio) or television
(visual) recording and production.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment whose primary purpose is serving meals to
patrons.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. An area or strip of land, either public or private, on which
an irrevocable right-of-passage has been recorded for the use of vehicles or
pedestrians or both.
   ROOF LINE. The top edge of the roof or the top edge of the parapet,
whichever forms the top line of the building silhouette, but not including
equipment structures.
   SCHOOL, PUBLIC OR PRIVATE. A public or private institution offering a
curriculum of education authorized by the State of North Carolina giving
regular instruction at the primary, secondary level, or a school for the
mentally or physically handicapped. Included in this definition are preschool
programs. However, this definition does not include day care facilities,
individual instruction, or classes in a specialized subject.
   SCHOOL, TRADE, OR BUSINESS. An institution offering instruction beyond high
school level with a course of study in vocational, technical or other special
subjects.
   SCREENING. The method by which a view of one site from another abutting site
is shielded, concealed, or hidden. Screening techniques include fences, walls,
hedges, berms, or other features.
   SELF-STORAGE FACILITY. A building or group of buildings consisting of
individual, self-contained units leased to individuals, organizations, or
businesses for self-service storage of personal property.
   SIGN. Any device or visual communicator that is used for the purpose of
bringing the subject thereof to the attention of the public (see §
156.403 for individual sign types).
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A building arranged to be occupied by no more than
one family. This term shall include single-family detached, zero-lot line and
alley-loaded dwelling units.
   SITE. See §
156.201.
   SITE AREA. See §
156.201.
   SITE AREA, NET. See §
156.201.
   SITE PLAN. A plan prepared to scale, showing accurately and with complete
dimensions, the boundaries of the site and the location of all buildings,
streets, uses, and principal site development features proposed for a specific
parcel of land (see §
156.706).
   SITE PLAN, MAJOR. (See §
156.706).
   SITE PLAN, MINOR. (See §
156.706).
   SITE SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A plan of land development submitted to the
town for the purpose of obtaining one of the following zoning or land use
permits or approvals: subdivision plat, site permit, conditional use permit,
special use permit, special use zoning district or variance; provided,
notwithstanding the foregoing that neither a variance, a plat nor any other
document  that fails to describe with reasonable certainty that type and
intensity of use for a specified parcel or parcels of property shall constitute
a site specific development plan.
   SPECIAL USE. See §
156.711.
   SPECIAL USE PERMIT. See §
156.711.
   STATE. The State of North Carolina.
   STEALTH or STEALTH TECHNOLOGY. Minimize adverse aesthetic and visual impacts
on the land, property, buildings, and other facilities adjacent to,
surrounding, and in generally the same area as the requested location of such
wireless telecommunications facilities, which shall mean using the least
visually and physically intrusive facility that is not technologically or
commercially impracticable under the facts and circumstances.
   STREAM, INTERMITTENT. A watercourse that collects surface runoff and is
shown as a dashed blue line on the most recent United States Geologic Survey
(USGS) 7½-minute quadrangle topographic maps, is shown as an intermittent
stream on the most recent US Department of Agriculture (USDA) Soil Survey, or
is shown as an intermittent stream on the Natural Resource Conservation Service
(NRCS) maps.
   STREAM, PERENNIAL. A watercourse that collects surface runoff and is shown
as a solid blue line on the most recent USGS 7½-minute quadrangle topographic
maps, is shown as a perennial stream on maps in the most recent US Department
of Agriculture (USDA) Soil Survey, or is shown as a perennial stream on the
Natural Resource Conservation Service (NRCS) maps.
   STREET. A dedicated and accepted public right-of-way for vehicular traffic.
Includes the following (see also §
156.602):
      (1)   MAJOR THOROUGHFARE.
      (2)   MINOR THOROUGHFARE.
      (3)   COLLECTOR STREET.
      (4)   RESIDENTIAL COLLECTOR STREET.
      (5)   COMMERCIAL STREET.
      (6)   RESIDENTIAL STREET.
      (7)   CUL-DE-SAC.
      (8)   ALLEY.
      (9)   FRONTAGE ROAD.
   SUBDIVISION. See §
156.706.
   SUBDIVISION, MAJOR. See §
156.706.
   SUBDIVISION, MINOR. See §
156.706.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. The transmission and/or reception of audio, video, data,
and other information by wire, radio frequency, light, and other electronic or
electromagnetic systems.
   TELECOMMUNICATION SITE. See definition for WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS
FACILITIES.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS STRUCTURE. A structure used in the provision of services
described in the definition of wireless telecommunications facilities.
   THOROUGHFARE. A major or minor thoroughfare (see §
156.602).
   TOWN. The Town of Kenly, North Carolina.
   TRANSPORTATION PLAN. The most recent map approved by the Town Board of
Commissioners that indicates the system of roads expected to serve major access
and travel needs with regard to auto, truck and transit transportation.
   VARIANCE. See §
156.716.
   VARIANCE, MAJOR WATERSHED. See §
156.716.
   VARIANCE, MINOR WATERSHED. See §
156.716.
   VEHICULAR USE AREA. All open areas and open spaces on the land which are
designated, used, required or intended to be used for storage, parking,
maintenance, service, repair, display, circulation, or operation of vehicles,
including automobiles, buses, trailers, trucks, boats, and motorcycles. This
definition is intended to include areas used or intended to be used  for
driveways to such vehicular use areas but does not include improvements to
public roads, streets, highways, and alleys.
   VETERINARIAN, ANIMAL HOSPITAL. A building used for the care and treatment of
small animals, including household pets.
   WAIVER. See §
156.706.
   WATERSHED. The entire land area contributing surface drainage to a specific
point (i.e., the water supply intake).
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. Includes a TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER
and TOWER and TELECOMMUNICATIONS SITE and PERSONAL WIRELESS FACILITY. A
structure, facility or location designed, or intended to be used as, or used to
support, antennas or other transmitting or receiving devices. This includes,
without limit, towers of all types and kinds and structures that employ
camouflage technology, including, but not limited to structures such as a
multi-story building, church steeple, silo, water tower, sign or other
structures that can be used to mitigate the visual impact of an antenna or the
functional equivalent of such, including all related facilities such as
cabling, equipment shelters and other structures associated with the site. It
is a structure and facility intended for transmitting and/or receiving radio,
television, cellular, paging, 911, personal telecommunications services,
commercial satellite services, microwave services and services not licensed by
the FCC, but not expressly exempt from the town's siting, building and
permitting authority, excluding those used exclusively for the town's fire,
police or exclusively for private, non-commercial radio and television
reception and private citizen's bands, amateur radio and other similar non-
commercial telecommunications where the height of the facility is below the
height limits set forth in this chapter.
   YARD, STREET.  See §
156.201.
   YARD, REAR. See §
156.201.
   YARD, SIDE (STREET). See §
156.201.
   YARD, SIDE (INTERIOR). See §
156.201.
   ZONING VESTED RIGHT. A right pursuant to G.S. § 160A-385.1 to undertake and
complete the development and use of property under the terms and conditions of
an approved site specific development plan.
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
APPENDIX A: TECHNICAL DRAWINGS
Typical Street Cross-Sections
   Major Thoroughfare - Five Lane
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-87.png]
 
   Major Thoroughfare - Five Lane
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-89.png]
 
   Major Thoroughfare - Four Lane Divided
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-91.png]
 
   Major Thoroughfare - Four Lane
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-93.png]
 
   Minor Thoroughfare - Three Lane
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-95.png]
 
   Minor Thoroughfare - Two Lane
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-97.png]
 
   Commercial Street
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-99.png]
 
   Collector Street
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-101.png]
 
   Residential Collector Street
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-103.png]
 
   Residential Street
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-105.png]
 
   Frontage Road
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-107.png]
 
   Cul-de-Sac, Commercial         Cul-de-Sac, Residential
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-109.png]        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
7e7fa15346d881053976c010979c25a770974f0e/IMAGES/0-0-0-111.png]
 
(Ord. passed 6- -2019)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   ANNEXATIONS
         
II.   INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
         
III.   BUDGETS; TAX RATES
         
IV.   MUNICIPAL PROJECTS
TABLE I:  ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
35       3-20-1972   Extension of corporate limits
43       3-3-1975    Extension of corporate limits
70       2-14-1983   Extension of corporate limits
71       7-11-1983   Extension of corporate limits
75       4-14-1982   Extension of corporate limits
76       4-9-1984    Extension of corporate limits
78       6-19-1984   Extension of corporate limits
-        7-9-1984    Amending Ord. 78
-        10-9-1984   Extension of corporate limits
79       12-10-1984  Extension of corporate limits
-        1-28-1985   Extension of corporate limits
-        11-11-1985  Extension of corporate limits
-        9-1-1986    Extension of corporate limits
92       - -         Extension of corporate limits
93       10-27-1986  Extension of corporate limits
95       1-12-1987   Extension of corporate limits
100      11-9-1987   Extension of corporate limits
101      11-9-1987   Extension of corporate limits
-        11-14-1987  Extension of corporate limits
-        11-14-1988  Extension of corporate limits
-        11-14-1988  Extension of corporate limits
-        6-12-1989   Extension of corporate limits
-        6-12-1989   Extension of corporate limits
-        9-4-1990    Extension of corporate limits
108      10-14-1991  Extension of corporate limits
109      3-2-1992    Definition of particular boundaries of extraterritorial
                     jurisdiction
-        8-10-1992   Extension of corporate limits
-        5-10-1993   Extension of corporate limits
-        3-11-1996   Extension of corporate limits
-        6-10-1996   Extension of corporate limits
-        5-12-1997   Extension of corporate limits
-        11-10-1997  Extension of corporate limits
-        7-13-1998   Extension of corporate limits
-        10-12-1998  Extension of corporate limits
-        8-9-1999    Extension of corporate limits
-        10-20-2003  Extension of corporate limits
-        4-12-2004   Extension of corporate limits
-        10-10-2005  Extension of corporate limits
-        8-14-2006   Extension of corporate limits
-        8-13-2007   Extension of corporate limits
-        12-14-2009  Extension of corporate limits
11-11    8-8-2011    Extension of corporate limits
11-13    12-12-2011  Extension of corporate limits
12-01    3-12-2012   Extension of corporate limits
18-01    2-12-2018   Extension of corporate limits
18-02    8-13-2018   Extension of corporate limits
18-03    2-12-2018   Extension of corporate limits
18-06    3-11-2019   Extension of corporate limits
18-07    8-13-2018   Extension of corporate limits
19-06    9-9-2019    Extension of corporate limits
                    
 
TABLE II:  INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        9-13-1999   Johnston County to furnish building code administration
                     and enforcement for the Town of Kenly
 
TABLE III:  BUDGETS; TAX RATES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
4        11-7-1955   Budget for fiscal 1955-1956; property and poll taxes
-        6-29-1987   Budget for FY 1987-1988
-        6-13-1988   Budget for FY 1988-1989
-        6-29-1989   Budget for FY 1989-1990
-        6-27-1991   Interim budget for FY 1991-1992
-        8-12-1991   Budget for FY 1991-1992
-        6-29-1992   Budget for FY 1992-1993
-        6-24-1993   Budget for FY 1993-1994
-        6-20-1994   Budget for FY 1994-1995
-        6-12-1995   Budget for FY 1995-1996
-        6-10-1996   Budget for FY 1996-1997
-        6-9-1997    Budget for FY 1997-1998
-        6-8-1998    Budget for FY 1998-1999
-        6- -1999    Budget for FY 1999-2000
-        6-12-2000   Budget for FY 2000-2001
-        6-11-2001   Budget for FY 2001-2002
-        6-10-2002   Budget for FY 2002-2003
-        6-24-2003   Budget for FY 2003-2004
-        6-29-2004   Budget for FY 2004-2005
-        1-10-2005   Amending the budget for FY 2004-2005
-        3-14-2005   Amending the budget for FY 2004-2005
-        6-13-2005   Budget for FY 2005-2006
-        1-9-2006    Amending the budget for FY 2005-2006
-        1-9-2006    Amending the budget for FY 2005-2006
-        6-12-2006   Amending the budget for FY 2005-2006
-        6-12-2006   Budget for FY 2006-2007
-        6-11-2007   Amending the budget for FY 2006-2007
-        6-11-2007   Budget for FY 2007-2008
-        1-14-2008   Amending the budget for FY 2007-2008
-        1-14-2008   Amending the budget for FY 2007-2008
-        6-10-2008   Budget for FY 2008-2009
-        6-13-2008   Amend appropriations and raising of revenue for FY
                     beginning July 1, 2007
-        6-29-2009   Budget for FY 2009-2010
10-3     6-14-2010   Amending the budget for FY 2009-2010
10-4     6-14-2010   Appropriations and raising of revenue for FY beginning
                     July 1, 2010
10-6     8-9-2010    Amending the budget for FY 2009-2010
11-1     2-14-2011   Amending the budget for FY 2010-2011
11-5     6-13-2011   Appropriations and raising of revenue for FY beginning
                     July 1, 2011
11-8     6-22-2011   Amend appropriations and raising of revenue for FY
                     beginning July 1, 2010
12-02    4-9-2012    Amend appropriations and raising of revenue for FY
                     beginning July 1, 2011
12-06    6-11-2012   Appropriations and raising of revenue for FY beginning
                     July 1, 2012
12-8     6-21-2012   Amend appropriations and raising of revenue for FY
                     beginning July 1, 2011
12-11    11-5-2012   Amend appropriations and raising of revenue for FY
                     beginning July 1, 2012
12-13    12-10-2012  Amend appropriations and raising of revenue for FY
                     beginning July 1, 2012
13-01    1-14-2013   Amend appropriations and raising of revenue for FY
                     beginning July 1, 2012
13-02    4-8-2013    Amending the budget for FY 2012-2013
13-05    6-10-2013   Appropriations and raising of revenue for FY beginning
                     July 1, 2013
13-06    6-20-2013   Amend appropriations and raising of revenue for FY
                     beginning July 1, 2012
13-07    8-12-2013   Amend appropriations and raising of revenue for FY
                     beginning July 1, 2013
13-08    9-9-2013    Amend appropriations and raising of revenue for FY
                     beginning July 1, 2013
13-09    11-6-2013   Amend appropriations and raising of revenue for FY
                     beginning July 1, 2013
14-03    6-9-2014    Budget for FY 2014- 2015
14-04    6-30-2014   Amend appropriations and raising of revenue for FY
                     beginning July 1, 2013
14-6     10-13-2014  Amending the budget for FY 2014-2015
14-7     10-13-2014  Amend appropriations and raising of revenue for FY
                     beginning July 1, 2014
14-08    11-10-2014  Amend appropriations and raising of revenue for FY
                     beginning July 1, 2014
15-02    2-26-2015   Amend appropriations and raising of revenue for FY
                     beginning July 1, 2014
15-03    4-13-2015   Amend appropriations and raising of revenue for FY
                     beginning July 1, 2014
15-05    6-8-2015    Budget for FY 2015- 2016
15-05A   8-10-2015   Amend appropriations and raising of revenue for FY
                     beginning July 1, 2015
15-06    6-22-2015   Amend appropriations and raising of revenue for FY
                     beginning July 1, 2014
16-01    1-11-2016   Amend appropriations and raising of revenue for FY
                     beginning July 1, 2015
16-03    3-14-2016   Amend appropriations and raising of revenue for FY
                     beginning July 1, 2015
16-04    5-9-2016    Amend appropriations and raising of revenue for FY
                     beginning July 1, 2015
16-05    6-13-2016   Budget for FY 2016- 2017
16-06    6-27-2016   Amend appropriations and raising of revenue for FY
                     beginning July 1, 2015
16-07    7-11-2016   Amend appropriations and raising of revenue for FY
                     beginning July 1, 2016
16-09    9-12-2016   Amend appropriations and raising of revenue for FY
                     beginning July 1, 2016
16-11    11-14-2016  Amend appropriations and raising of revenue for FY
                     beginning July 1, 2016
17-02    4-10-2017   Amend appropriations and raising of revenue for FY
                     beginning July 1, 2016
17-0     6-12-2017   Concerning appropriations and the raising of revenue for
                     the FY beginning July 1, 2017, and ending June 30, 2018
18-04    -  -       Amendment to ordinance concerning appropriations and
                     raising of revenue for the FY beginning July 1, 2017
18-05    -  -       Budget Amendment FY 2018-2019
18-05    6-11-2018   Budget Ordinance FY 2018-2019
18-07    3-27-2019   Amendment to budget ordinance for FY 2018-2019
18-08    3-27-2019   Amendment to budget ordinance for FY 2018-2019
18-09    6-10-2019   Budget ordinance for FY 2019-2020
19-01    8-12-2019   Amendment to budget ordinance for FY 2018-2019
19-02    9-9-2019    Amendment to budget ordinance for FY 2019-2020
19-13    5-11-2020   Amendment to budget ordinance for FY 2019-2020
19-14    6-8-2020    Amendment to budget ordinance for FY 2019-2020
19-15    6-8-2020    Budget ordinance for FY 2020-2021
                    
 
TABLE IV:  MUNICIPAL PROJECTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
83       12-9-1985   Grant project; water and sewer line extension
85       12-9-1985   Grant project; Project No. C-2, “Third Street Project”
86       12-9-1985   Grant project; Project No. C-1, “Tilghman Street Project”
87       12-9-1985   Grant project; Project No. L-1, “Local Option Project”
88       12-9-1985   Grant project; design and construction of wastewater
                     treatment facilities
90       3-17-1986   Street project; paving schedule
-        1-12-1987   Amendment to grant project; Project No. C-1, “Tilghman
                     Street Project”
-        1-12-1987   Amendment to grant project; Project No. L-1, “Local Option
                     Project”
-        2-8-1988    Grant project; Project No. C-1, “South Gardner Avenue
                     Project”
-        2-8-1988    Grant project; Project No. L-1, “Local Option Project”
-        5-8-1989    Amendment to grant project; Project No. L-1, “Local Option
                     Project”
-        12-9-1991   Grant project; Project No. C-1, “Sixth and Seventh Street
                     Revitalization Area”
-        12-9-1991   Grant project; Project No. L-1, “Local Option Project”
-        6-10-1996   Capital project; upgrade wastewater treatment plant
                     Directing the Building Inspector to demolish and remove
-        3-13-2006   the property located at 309 Maple Avenue, Kenly, North
                     Carolina
-        11-12-2007  Capital improvements project; lift stations and generators
-        4-14-2008   Capital improvements project; N.W. area drainage
                     improvements
-        12-14-2009  Amendment to capital improvements project; N.W. area
                     drainage improvements
-        12-14-2009  Amendment to capital improvements project; N.W. area
                     drainage improvements
-        12-14-2009  Amendment to capital improvements project; drainage
                     improvements
10-8     12-30-2010  Amendment to capital improvements project; waste water
                     treatment plant improvements
15-01    2-9-2015    Capital improvements project; water ans sewer system
                     improvements
15-06    10-12-2015  Demolition of property at 305 South Alford Avenue
15-07    10-12-2015  Demolition of property at 303 South Alford Avenue
17-01    3-13-2017   Demolition of property at 208 South Maple Avenue
18-06    6-11-2018   Utility relocation for bridge replacement SR 1195 (Revell
                     Rd.)
19-03    8-12-2019   Demolition of property at 105 Tilghman Street
19-04    8-12-2019   Demolition of property at 107 Tilghman Street
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Cites Code Section
G.S. Cites                       Code Section
1-54.1                           156.105
1-120.2                          154.008
Ch. 7A                           155.29
9-18                             154.011
                                 90.99;
                                 91.99;
                                 92.99;
14-4                             94.999;
                                 95.99;
                                 115.99;
                                 130.99
14-4(a)                          10.99;
                                 130.99
14-4(b)                          70.99
Ch. 14, Art. 37                  110.16
14-202.10                        156.802
14-288.1                         95.03;
                                 95.08
14-288.7                         95.08
14-288.20A                       95.03
14-360 et seq.                   Ch. 94
14-409(2)                        95.08
                                 151.061;
15-27.2                          152.041;
                                 154.006
Ch. 18B                          91.06
18B-101                          111.01
19A-1 et seq.                    Ch. 94
20-219.11                        93.09
42-42                            151.003
42-43                            151.003
Ch. 44A, Art. 1                  93.11
67-1 et seq.                     Ch. 94
68-15 et seq.                    Ch. 94
Ch. 90, Art. 5                   130.30
Ch. 105, Subchapter VIII         33.01
Ch. 105, Subchapter 1, Article 5 33.01
Ch. 105, Subchapter 1, Article 9 33.01
105-164.3(17)a                   33.01
105-164.4(a)(2)                  33.01
105-187.1(3)                     33.01
105-187.1(7)                     33.01
105-349                          33.01
105-360                          150.020
106-364 et seq.                  Ch. 94
106-403                          Ch. 94
113A-52(6)                       150.020
113A-54(d)(4)                    150.020
113A-57                          150.020
113A-61                          150.020
113A-72                          150.020
Ch. 130A, Art. 9                 155.05 ;
                                 156.802
130A-47 et seq.                  50.02
130A-290(a)(6)                   155.05
130A-290(a)(35)                  155.05
130A-290(a)(36)                  155.05
130A-333 et seq.                 50.02
Ch. 132                          155.27
136-102.6                        156.602
136-141 et seq.                  93.14
136-143                          93.14
Ch. 143, Art. 9 or 9C            150.020
Ch. 143, Art. 21                 52.111
Ch. 143, Art. 21, Part 6         155.01
143-143.15                       155.41
143-213(18)                      52.002
143-214.58                       155.99
143-215.1                        52.002;
                                 52.046
143-215.1(b)                     52.046
143-215.3(a)(14)                 52.002
143-215.6B                       52.111
143-215.6B(f)                    52.111
143-215.6B(g)                    52.111
143-215.6B(h)                    52.111
143-215.6B(i)                    52.111
143-215.58                       155.28
143-318.10                       32.02
143-440 et seq.                  Ch. 94
153A-275                         52.001
Ch. 160A                         32.17
160A-31                          156.718
160A-58.1                        156.718
160A-76                          Ch. 153
160A-101                         30.01
160A-102                         30.01
160A-103                         30.01
Ch. 160A, Art. 7, Part 2         30.01
Ch. 160A, Art. 8                 155.01
                                 10.99;
160A-175                         91.99 ;
                                 156.720
160A-175(b)                      92.99
160A-175(c)                      92.99
160A-175(d)                      94.999
160A-175(e)                      94.999
160A-182                         Ch. 94
160A-184                         Ch. 94
160A-186                         Ch. 94
160A-187                         Ch. 94
160A-188                         Ch. 94
160A-189                         130.16
160A-190                         130.16
160A-193                         Ch. 94
160A-194                         Ch. 94
160A-200                         92.20
160A-208.1                       33.01
160A-211                         33.01,
                                 Ch. 115
160A-215.1                       33.01
160A-215.1(b)                    33.01
160A-215.1(d)                    33.01
160A-215.1(e)(1)                 33.01
160A-215.1(e)(2)                 33.01
160A-215.1(f)                    33.01
160A-216 et seq.                 154.011
Ch. 160A, Art. 10                154.011
Ch. 160A, Art. 12                35.01–
                                 35.04
160A-266(c)                      35.01–
                                 35.04
160A-303                         93.02
160A-303.2                       93.02
160A-312                         52.001
160A-344                         156.718;
                                 156.802
160A-344.1                       156.718
160A-364                         156.718
160A-364.1                       156.105
160A-375                         156.706;
                                 156.720
160A-381                         156.710;
                                 156.711
160A-382                         156.200
160A-385                         156.802
160A-385.1                       156.718;
                                 156.802
160A-388                         156.700
Ch. 160A, Art. 19                11.01 ;
                                 156.101
Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 3        155.01
Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 5        154.001;
                                 155.01
160A-413                         150.009
160A-418                         150.024 ;
                                 156.718
160A-419                         150.025
160A-422                         150.026 ;
                                 156.718
160A-426 et seq.                 154.001
160A-431                         154.009
160A-432                         154.009
160A-432(b)                      154.009
160A-432(b1)                     154.009
160A-434                         154.010
160A-439                         152.002
160A-441                         151.001
160A-441–160A-450              151.001
160A-444                         151.001
160A-451, Part 7                 32.03
Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 8        155.01
160A-493                         Ch. 94
166A-19.3                        95.03
166A-19.22                       95.03
166A-31                          95.03
                                 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      - -         32.01;
                     51.29
2        7-18-1955   50.03
3        8-1-1955    90.04
4        11-7-1955   TSO III
6        1-2-1956    130.03;
                     130.99
13       2-6-1961    34.01
17       1- -1967    Ch. 72, Sched. III
16       5-8-1967    150.03;
                     150.99
20       8-8-1969    Ch. 72, Sched. II
20-A     - -         Ch. 72, Sched. II
23       12-7-1970   50.02
24       6-21-1971   31.02
25       10-25-1971  50.05
27       - -         70.16
33       12-6-1971   Ch. 72, Sched. II
34       12-6-1971   50.01
35       3-20-1972   TSO I
38       8-7-1972    130.31;
                     130.99
39       8-7-1972    70.02
41       4-22-1974   50.04
43       3-3-1975    TSO I
46       3-1-1977    70.15
66       - -         90.03;
                     90.99
67       - -         90.02
48-A     11-11-1977  Ch. 71, Sched. III
-        3-6-1978    34.01
50       7-10-1978   Ch. 72, Sched. III
51       5-7-1979    51.20–
                     51.33
–      8-6-1979    51.29
63       5-13-1980   32.15–
                     32.20
64       5-13-1980   11.01
–      2-9-1981    51.23;
                     51.34
75       4-14-1982   TSO I
–      8-9-1982    114.01
68       11-8-1982   111.01;
                     111.99
70       2-14-1983   TSO I
71       7-11-1983   TSO I
73       - -         30.01
74       10-10-1983  92.99
94       11-14-1983  110.15–
                     110.19
76       4-9-1984    TSO I
77       5-21-1984   32.01
78       6-19-1984   TSO I
-        7-9-1984    TSO I
-        10-9-1984   TSO I
79       12-10-1984  TSO I
-        1-28-1985   TSO I
-        3-  -1985  32.01
81       4-1-1985    130.16;
                     130.99
-        11-11-1985  TSO I
83       12-9-1985   TSO IV
84       12-9-1985   150.02;
                     150.99
85       12-9-1985   TSO IV
86       12-9-1985   TSO IV
87       12-9-1985   TSO IV
88       12-9-1985   TSO IV
89       2-10-1986   90.01
90       3-17-1986   TSO IV
-        9-1-1986    TSO I
92       - -         TSO I
93       10-27-1986  TSO I
95       1-12-1987   TSO I
-        1-12-1987   TSO IV
-        1-12-1987   TSO IV
–      2-9-1987    51.29
96       5-11-1987   113.01–
                     113.05
-        6-29-1987   TSO III
97       9-14-1987   Ch. 71, Sched. III
99       11-9-1987   31.01
100      11-9-1987   TSO I
101      11-9-1987   TSO I
-        11-14-1987  TSO I
-        2-8-1988    51.34
-        2-8-1988    TSO IV
-        2-8-1988    TSO IV
-        6-13-1988   TSO III
-        11-14-1988  TSO I
-        11-14-1988  TSO I
–      11-14-1988  51.35
-        5-8-1989    TSO IV
-        6-12-1989   TSO I
-        6-12-1989   TSO I
-        6-29-1989   TSO III
104      8-14-1989   92.35–
                     92.45
105      - -         Ch. 71, Sched. II
-        9-4-1990    TSO I
105      11-12-1990  110.01
-        6-27-1991   TSO III
-        8-12-1991   TSO III
107      9-9-1991    70.01;
                     70.99
108      10-14-1991  TSO I
-        12-9-1991   TSO IV
-        12-9-1991   TSO IV
109      3-2-1992    TSO I
-        6-29-1992   TSO III
-        8-10-1992   TSO I
-        5-10-1993   TSO I
-        6-24-1993   TSO III
16       10-11-1993  Ch. 71, Sched. III
17       10-11-1993  Ch. 72, Sched. II
                     94.001–
                     94.010;
                     94.025-
                     94.027;
                     94.040;
                     94.050;
121      11-11-1993  94.051;
                     94.065-
                     94.068;
                     94.070-
                     94.073;
                     94.085;
                     94.086;
                     94.999
–      3-14-1994   93.01–
                     93.15
122      3-14-1994   92.01;
                     92.99
-        6-20-1994   TSO III
-        6-12-1995   TSO III
123      8-14-1995   130.30;
                     130.99
–      12-11-1995  130.15
-        3-11-1996   TSO I
-        6-10-1996   TSO I
-        6-10-1996   TSO III
-        6-10-1996   TSO IV
124      6-10-1996   130.02;
                     130.99
125      8-12-1996   130.01;
                     130.99
-        5-12-1997   TSO I
-        6-9-1997    TSO III
-        11-10-1997  TSO I
                     91.01–
                     91.07;
126      12-8-1997   91.09;
                     91.10;
                     91.99
–      3-9-1998    Ch. 72, Sched. I
-        6-8-1998    TSO III
-        7-13-1998   TSO I
-        10-12-1998  TSO I
-        6- -1999    TSO III
-        8-9-1999    TSO I
                     155.01–
                     155.12;
                     155.25-
–      9-13-1999   155.29;
                     155.40-
                     155.42;
                     155.99;
                     TSO II
-        6-12-2000   TSO III
–      7-10-2000   33.01
-        6-11-2001   TSO III
–      8-13-2001   Ch. 71, Sched. I
–      5-13-2002   34.01
-        6-10-2002   TSO III
–      4-14-2003   150.01
-        6-24-2003   TSO III
–      9-8-2003    51.99
-        10-20-2003  TSO I
–      11-10-2003  112.01–
                     112.12
-        4-12-2004   TSO I
-        6-29-2004   TSO III
                     94.066;
–      9-13-2004   94.068;
                     94.069
–      1-10-2005   TSO III
–      3-14-2005   TSO III
–      4-11-2005   Adopting Ordinance
–      5-9-2005    91.08
–      6-13-2005   TSO III
                     52.001;
                     52.002;
                     52.020-
                     52.028;
                     52.035-
                     52.038;
                     52.045;
                     52.046;
                     52.055-
                     52.065;
–      6-13-2005   52.070;
                     52.080;
                     52.090-
                     52.093;
                     52.100;
                     52.110-
                     52.112;
                     52.120;
                     52.130-
                     52.132;
                     52.999
–      10-10-2005  TSO I
                     155.01–
                     155.12;
                     155.25-
–      11-14-2005  155.29;
                     155.40-
                     155.45;
                     155.99
–      1-9-2006    TSO III
–      1-9-2006    TSO III
–      2-13-2006   51.28
–      3-13-2006   TSO IV
–      6-12-2006   TSO III
–      6-12-2006   TSO III
–      8-14-2006   TSO I
–      6-11-2007   TSO III
–      6-11-2007   TSO III
–      8-13-2007   TSO I
–      11-12-2007  TSO IV
–      1-14-2008   TSO III
–      1-14-2008   TSO III
–      4-14-2008   TSO IV
–      5-12-2008   93.02
–      6-9-2008    92.15–
                     92.19
–      6-10-2008   TSO III
–      6-13-2008   TSO III
–      6-8-2009    51.29
–      6-29-2009   TSO III
–      12-14-2009  TSO I
–      12-14-2009  TSO IV
–      12-14-2009  TSO IV
-        12-14-2009  TSO IV
10-0     4-14-2010   34.01
10-3     6-14-2010   TSO III
10-4     6-14-2010   TSO III
10-5     8-9-2010    Ch. 72, Sched. II
10-6     8-9-2010    TSO III
10-7     11-8-2010   51.01—
                     51.10
10-8     12-30-2010  TSO IV
11-1     2-14-2011   TSO III
11-2     3-14-2011   32.30—
                     32.37
11-3     4-11-2011   92.20
11-4     5-9-2011    32.02
11-5     6-13-2011   TSO III
                     52.001;
                     52.002;
                     52.020-
                     52.028;
                     52.035-
                     52.038;
                     52.045;
                     52.046;
                     52.055-
                     52.065;
                     52.070;
11-7     6-13-2011   52.080;
                     52.090-
                     52.093;
                     52.100;
                     52.110-
                     52.112;
                     52.120;
                     52.130-
                     52.132;
                     52.140;
                     52.150;
                     52.999
11-8     6-22-2011   TSO III
                     150.001–
                     150.009;
                     150.020-
                     150.026;
                     151.001-
                     151.003;
                     151.020-
                     151.026;
                     151.040-
                     151.043;
11-9     9-12-2011   151.060-
                     151.062;
                     152.001-
                     152.004;
                     152.020;
                     152.040-
                     152.043;
                     153.001-
                     153.003;
                     154.001-
                     154.012
11-10    7-11-2011   34.01
11-11    8-8-2011    TSO I
11-13    12-12-2011  TSO I
12-01    3-12-2012   TSO I
12-02    4-9-2012    TSO III
12-06    6-11-2012   TSO III
12-8     6-21-2012   TSO III
12-11    11-5-2012   TSO III
                     115.01–
12-12    12-10-2012  115.09;
                     115.99
12-13    12-10-2012  TSO III
13-01    1-14-2013   TSO III
13-02    4-8-2013    TSO III
13-03    5-13-2013   112.10
13-05    6-10-2013   TSO III
13-06    6-20-2013   TSO III
13-07    8-12-2013   TSO III
13-08    9-9-2013    TSO III
13-09    11-6-2013   TSO III
13-10    11-18-2013  91.08
14-01    2-10-2014   Ch. 71, Sched. III
14-02    4-14-2014   32.01
14-03    6-9-2014    TSO III
14-04    6-30-2014   TSO III
14-6     10-13-2014  TSO III
14-7     10-13-2014  TSO III
14-08    11-10-2014  TSO III
15-01    2-9-2015    TSO IV
15-02    2-26-2015   TSO III
15-03    4-13-2015   TSO III
15-4     6-8-2015    32.02
15-05    6-8-2015    TSO III
15-05A   8-10-2015   TSO III
15-06    6-22-2015   TSO III
15-06    10-12-2015  TSO IV
15-07    10-12-2015  TSO IV
16-01    1-11-2016   TSO III
                     95.01–
16-02    3-14-2016   95.14;
                     95.99
16-03    3-14-2016   TSO III
16-04    5-9-2016    TSO III
16-05    6-13-2016   TSO III
16-06    6-27-2016   TSO III
16-07    7-11-2016   TSO III
16-08    8-8-2016    32.03
16-09    9-12-2016   TSO III
16-11    11-14-2016  TSO III
17-01    3-13-2017   TSO IV
17-02    4-10-2017   TSO III
17-0     6-12-2017   TSO III
18-01    2-12-2018   TSO I
18-02    8-13-2018   TSO I
18-03    2-12-2018   TSO I
18-04    -  -       TSO III
                     155.01;
                     155.04–
                     155.07;
                     155.25–
- -      6-11-2018   155.29;
                     155.40–
                     155.44;
                     155.50;
                     155.51;
                     155.99
18-04    9-10-2018   94.030;
                     94.999
18-05    -  -       TSO III
18-05    6-11-2018   TSO III
18-06    6-11-2018   TSO IV
18-06    3-11-2019   TSO I
18-07    8-13-2018   TSO I
18-07    3-27-2019   TSO III
18-08    3-27-2019   TSO III
18-09    6-10-2019   TSO III
18-10    6-10-2019   150.010
                     156.100–
                     156.109;
                     156.200–
                     156.204;
                     156.300–
                     156.307;
                     156.400–
- -      6- -2019    156.405;
                     156.600–
                     156.607;
                     156.700–
                     156.720;
                     156.800–
                     156.802;
                      App. A
19-01    8-12-2019   TSO III
19-03    8-12-2019   TSO IV
19-04    8-12-2019   TSO IV
19-05    9-9-2019    TSO III
19-06    9-9-2019    TSO I
19-07    9-9-2019    152.021
19-08    11-12-2019  51.35
19-09    11-12-2019  35.01
19-10    11-12-2019  35.02
19-11    1-13-2020   35.04
19-12    1-13-2020   35.03
19-13    6-8-2020    TSO III
19-14    6-8-2020    TSO III
19-15    6-8-2020    TSO III
                    
 
